ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Let's start the briefing. First, we'll do a presence check. Please! 34 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 67 are missing. The Minister of Defence Sven Mikser participates in the duties of Prime Minister Urve Palo, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, and Ivari Padar, Minister of Agriculture. Yesterday, six members of the Riigikogu announced their wish to ask the question. In view of this, two people may ask for further questions about each subject from the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U2	The first questioner is Kadri Simson. The question is for Sven Mikser, the Minister of Defence, the Prime Minister. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U3	Thank you. Dear Sven Mikser! In recent months both the Centre Party and the IRL have spoken about the need for tax reform in Estonia. If you look at the Social Democrats programme for the last elections to the Riigikogu, you will also find clear references to the need for tax changes. How has your party's views on the need for tax reform changed in government? What specific tax changes should the next government make in Estonia according to your understanding?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U4	Thank you, Honourable Asker. I can, of course, speak on behalf of only one of the coalition's parties, because the social democrats' understanding of the tax changes that should be made in Estonia is probably significantly different from that of our coalition partner's Reform Party. To your question, whether and in what way the status of the government has changed the view of the social democrats on the foundations of tax policy and tax reforms, I will say that it has not changed that. Taxation has several objectives. One of the goals is undoubtedly to generate tax revenue for the state and to fill the revenue side of the state budget, but in addition, taxation must affect us to use resources reasonably and economically and to deserve natural resources. It is certainly important to influence people's consumption patterns for certain tax types in order to protect people's health, but also to be guided by the principle of rational use of resources. Of course, the principle of fairness is also important to the social democrats, taking into account everyone's ability to pay taxes. According to the Social Democrats, Estonia must move towards more progressive taxation. Progressive taxation concerns a wide range of tax types, certainly not just income tax, but also this.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U5	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U6	Thank you. Dear Sven Mikser! In the previous election programme of the Riigikogu, the social democrats had a number of specific promises in the tax chapter, such as a reduction in the value added tax (VAT) on foodstuffs, progressive income tax, so that a higher level of taxation would apply from a salary of EUR 1000, as well as the restoration of the classic corporate tax. Are these tax principles also on your party's electoral platform in 2015?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U7	Thank you. Once again, it is not a question of government policy in office. But the Social Democrats are in the process of drafting the principles of their 2015 electoral programme, or governance programme, for the years 2015 to 2019. The tax policy chapter is certainly an important part of this. As has been said, we believe that taxation must be more progressive than it is now. There is certainly no reason to say to the taboo that has been ruling in Estonian society for a long time that we are not talking about the need for tax reforms; taxation must now and forever be what it is now. The President has also said not long ago that what brought us here will not take us any further. We will certainly put different types of tax on the table with a completely open view. We know that certain tax types in Estonia are already relatively high in European terms. We tax labour quite highly, for example. At the same time, we know that social tax is linked to specific expenditure lines of the budget, where the need for expenditure is very high, these budget lines are under very great pressure. It is certainly worth looking with open eyes at capital taxes, property taxes. But, of course, it is very important to respect the principle that people's ability to pay taxes must also be taken into account. You can't burden those who are already in a very difficult situation in terms of coping.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U8	Honourable questioners! Personally, this debate may seem very pleasant to me, but I am still forced to remind you that this is not a party, but a briefing of the Government of the Republic. I would ask you to consider where this limit goes when you ask a question. Kadri Simson, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U9	Thank you. I believe that, just as the current Prime Minister knows exactly the boundaries and speaks on behalf of his party, the chairman of the smaller partner of the coalition, the Social Democrats, will be able to do so. The 2015 Riigikogu elections are less than five months away. I see at the moment only one possible coalition that could really carry out the tax reform that you have spoken about. Does the Social Democrats aim to be part of the coalition after the 2015 elections, which would allow Estonia to introduce European tiered income tax and restore classical corporate tax?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U10	Thank you. That is an excellent question and it is very easy to answer. Not only do the Social Democrats want to be part of this coalition, which makes the Estonian tax system fairer, but the Social Democrats want to be such a coalition maker. If your question was kept in secret as to whether the Social Democrats are prepared to form this coalition with the Centre Party, I say that there is certainly no reason to close the doors today. We have had very constructive government cooperation with our coalition partner. This coalition was formed relatively short time before the regular elections, it proposed a very, very specific action programme and will certainly be able to carry it out successfully in an important way. The experience of cooperation is a good thing. The closeness between the programme and the world is also very important for the formation of a coalition. It would certainly have been much easier for me to have coalition talks with a party for which Mrs Samson would speak than perhaps with another potential partner. But the question of persons is only part of this equation, which concerns coalition negotiations. World-viewed and programmed proximity is important, but I believe that the social democrats will have a strong enough position after the next regular elections in the Riigikogu to carry out important social democratic reforms, including tax reforms, whoever our partner is in the coalition to be formed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U11	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U12	Thank you. Honourable performer! The tax reform is, of course, important and necessary in Estonia at the moment; it has not been done in a long time. But a successful tax reform can only be achieved if there are sufficient resources to be reallocated. So here's my question about the current government coalition. It seems to me that your main concern or objective alongside tax reform should be that Estonia can produce more GDP, so that we have larger sums that can be reallocated and used. It seems to me that Estonia is now going in the direction that it will not be able to support itself soon, because Estonia, to put it figuratively, is earning too little money to support different groups of the population by means of taxes and run the country. Do you have a programme to start increasing the income of the Estonian state? There's very little talk about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U13	Thank you. Time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U14	Thank you. This issue certainly went beyond tax reform. The tax reform deals with the revenue side of the budget, i.e. it collects resources to enable the state to spend, take social policy, educational policy or other measures, or maintain national defence and the internal security sector. I have already listed the basic principles on which taxation should be based. In addition to obtaining budget revenues, it is important to use and reward resources sustainably and sensibly, as well as to guide people's consumption patterns and save their health. In addition to ensuring that revenue can be collected as easily and intelligibly as possible, people's sense of justice and their ability to pay taxes must be taken into account. As far as income policy is concerned, of course social democrats have a very clear and concrete programme. Its focus coincides with what employers expressed in their manifesto yesterday. We share their understanding that the most important input in any economic activity is human assets. The country can shift its economy towards greater added value and productivity if it invests reasonably in human resources through education policies and labour market measures that help people to improve their skills, progress in the labour market or re-enter the labour market if they have already lost their jobs. So here, too, we have a very clear and fully viable vision.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U15	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, Following the Chairman's comment, my question is specifically about the government. There is one point in the government's action programme which says that the government is analysing the possibility of implementing more effective measures to prevent the hidden loss of profits. Is the government coming out here with any initiative or analysis, or are you expecting some initiative from the Riigikogu? In any case, the Committee on Monetary Affairs, chaired by your party partner, has not discussed this issue so far, as far as I know.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U17	Thank you. Your point must be correct. The reason why the monetary committee, chaired by my party partner, has not yet discussed this initiative is that the Ministry of Finance, led by your party partner, is not yet in the country to present such legislative initiatives to the Riigikogu for processing. But let's just say that this government has almost five months' working time until the elections, and I am sure that this part of the work plan that was written in our coalition agreement, which has not yet been implemented, can be implemented during these months. This is certainly a necessary initiative, which was also included in the coalition agreement. All the objectives set out in the Coalition Agreement as principles must be implemented with real action. Legislation sometimes takes longer than originally planned, but I am optimistic that, just like other important things in the coalition agreement, it can be done by the end of the term of office of this Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U18	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U19	The next question is the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Urve Palole. Asks Toomas Tõniste, member of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U20	Minister, first of all, congratulations on the successful mid-term finish of the ferry boot. But the question concerns the problem of low-wage earners. People who work should be able to live off their pay. There are 300,000 recipients in Estonia, whose monthly income is less than 800 euros. The IRL has come up with the idea of a tax reform for low-paid people, according to which those with a salary of up to EUR 500 should not pay income tax and the tax-free minimum for other low-paid people. Compared to progressive income tax, our reform will not take anything away from anyone and will certainly...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U21	Question, please! Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U22	What is the position of the Minister for Economic Affairs regarding our idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U23	Thank you, good questioner! Thanks for the good words too. I, in turn, congratulate the IRL for having started to worry about people who earn less. It is surprising that six months of opposition work so well. When you were in power for ten years, we didn't hear that kind of trouble. But people learn and life changes. As regards the conversion of a salary of EUR 500 into a first step in which no income tax should be paid at all, this is in principle indeed the introduction of graduated income tax. Formerly Kadri Simson asked if the Social Democrats would be ready to implement a tax reform involving progressive income tax, along with the Centre Party. I see that potential coalition partners are coming up, because IRL is also in favour of progressive income tax. Personally, I also think that poverty among people at work is a major problem in Estonia. The fact that a person is working, but at the same time cannot manage his salary, is a huge disgrace to the Estonian state and, not to mention the future, is also a major obstacle to economic development. But if I were you, I'd be a little careful about saying that promise, because it sounds a little like last time's promised 'Home expenses down! '. It sounded good, but unfortunately it was not feasible and home expenses increased instead. Here, too, it must be taken into account where the instruments required to introduce this tax amendment come from. But we can still talk about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U24	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! Half your reign is over, five months have passed and five months remain. The coalition agreement was written in the oil shale energy section that there would be structural changes or you would see them coming. How far has it been in five months, and what will be done in the next five months?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U26	Thank you, good questioner! The subject should be more precise so that an accurate answer can be reached. But as far as the oil shale sector is concerned, the Ministry of the Environment has a leading role here. I know the Minister for the Environment is planning to complete the development plan by the end of the year. I look forward to discussing this with interest myself. I don't know exactly what to say at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U27	Thomas Tõniste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U28	Thank you. Unlike the Social Democrats, the IRL is not only concerned but is also taking real steps to resolve the situation. The idea of low-wage tax reform offers a concrete solution and has been approved by a large number of professionals, saying that this is the right direction. I'm sure the IRL also has sources to cover this reform. But you don't want to put that slogan on it like it's a step-by-step income tax. The current system of tax-free minimum is also actually progressive income tax, and anyone who wants to may call it that. My question, however, is substantive. So what's wrong with the IRL proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U29	Thank you very much. Since the answer time is so short, my answer was not complete, but I was hoping you'd ask again. Once again, I commend you for this idea and I mean along with it. But what are the drawbacks of this idea? I'll bring out three problems. First of all, it will take between EUR 140 million and EUR 250 million from the state budget. That's a lot of money. I would therefore like to hear immediately what taxes you are raising in order to get these funds back into the budget. Another problem is that those who earn 500 euros or more will actually face an increase in the tax burden. For those who earn EUR 600 or EUR 700, this increases because there is no longer a tax-free minimum, it is not applied to them, I have understood that way. Thirdly, I think that EUR 500 is a very low income. Should the Estonian state seem to think that if a person earns 500 euros, he does not have to pay taxes and that is the aid of the whole state? We should try to make the salary much higher than EUR 500. In my opinion, a more sensible plan is the idea of the social democrats that the state will actively negotiate with employers and employers on the subject of minimum wages and by 2019 the minimum wage in Estonia could be 800 euros. Firstly, it does not take away valuable budgetary resources from the country and, secondly, it ultimately leaves people with more money. For example, if the minimum wage in 2019 was 800 euros, it would be 680 euros. The direction should still be to see wages rise, not that we are trapped in this EUR 500.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U30	Thomas Tõniste.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U31	Thank you. I believe that all parties speak the same language, that wages must rise. There are no social democrats in charge here, no one else. We're all working to raise our wages. But the situation is that 200,000 people in Estonia receive less than EUR 500. The fact that they only have to chew bread for three years is certainly not the wish of the Socialists. That is why the IRL has come up with its own solutions, for which we also have a cover, even more effective national governance. Another option is not to increase the tax-free minimum by 10 euros a year, from which a person wins two euros a month, which is kind of like sowing money from a plane, but rather to deal with those who have a problem and want to leave Estonia, because they cannot get enough money for their work to survive. Our concern is that. However, please tell us what is essentially wrong with our proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U32	Thank you. I thought I was talking about it, but I'll tell you again. I would like to stress that I sincerely welcome this discussion. I remember very well the debates that took place three years ago before the previous elections with your party's Prime Minister-designate, Juhan Parts. They were public debates in Delfi and elsewhere. Juhan Parts said that the fact that people are leaving Estonia is not a problem; it is the free will of these people. I vehemently argued that we have to deal with it, that is a serious problem, and that the country must see its role here. I am really glad that six months of opposition have affected you in this way. But I stress once again that we must not be trapped at EUR 500, but we must work to make sure that people's salaries rise and are much higher than EUR 500. In my opinion, it is high time for the country to take an active role and to ensure that negotiations between employers and employees end by raising the minimum wage as soon as possible. This 20% per year is really feasible, it leaves more money to people and, at the same time, it does not reduce public resources in the budget. I am convinced that all people in whatever work they do want to feel dignified, they want to feel that they are important to the state too, and they want to contribute as taxes to the functioning of the state. This is also an important aspect. So a person must be able to pay taxes and the role of the state is that no minimum wage at all should be paid so low that a person who goes to work lives in poverty. We have to work towards raising wages.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U33	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U34	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Thank you very much, Minister, for your answers. I wanted to point out that the IRL does not intend at all to cancel or reduce its tax-free minimum. I would like to stress that the tax reform of the IRL is not like the tax reform proposed by the Socialists and the Centre Party, which taxes more highly-paid people, but precisely leaves significantly more money in the hands of those currently on low wages. Of course, your intention to raise the level of pay is to be welcomed. The question is what, as Minister for Economic Affairs, you think it would be possible to do so. What, then, would your support measures be to get more money for these 300,000 people?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U35	Thank you. Once again, it is important that the government does not only deal with the cost side. It cannot be that, for example, EUR 500 per month is the level of pay for which people do not pay the tax, and that is the solution. The solution should be to increase the income side, to increase people's incomes, and thus to increase revenue from the state budget. This money could, in turn, contribute to society, starting with raising people's education levels and ending with increasing health care costs, not to mention family benefits. The economy begins at all because children are born, they receive adequate education and they are healthy. It is a resource that develops and sustains the economy. This was also true yesterday by employers in their manifesto, which I was really happy to read. As our party chairman said, it is largely as if it were written off from the Socialist electoral programme. In any case, we support most of what employers say. When it comes to how to increase the revenue side, how to achieve a minimum wage of 800 euros, for example, I say that Estonian society is not so weak that it is not feasible for us. If everyone does it evenly and gradually, it is feasible. At present, such low wages are often caused by a competitive situation that allows lower wages to be paid. In the Nordic countries, for many years, the state has played an active role when agreements are concluded between employers and employers, so-called income policy agreements. There, among other things, the state offers incentives to employers if they raise the minimum wage.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U36	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U37	The next question is for Minister of Agriculture Ivari Padari. The question is from Kalev Eagle. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U38	Thank you, Mr President. Austet Minister of Agriculture! On Monday, Luxembourg had the European Union's agriculture and fisheries ministers together. Among other things, it discussed a support package for the dairy sector. What were the results of this consultation for Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U39	Thank you, dear questioner. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Indeed, on Monday there was a meeting of EU agriculture and fisheries ministers in Luxembourg, where two very important problems concerning us were raised on the agricultural side. One issue was swine fever and the other was the situation in the European Union markets following the import restrictions imposed by Russia. As far as the debate on swine fever is concerned, we have received very clear assurances from the European Commission that if the risks to our farms are to materialise and we have to start destroying domestic animals, then the European Commission is willing to compensate up to 75% of the costs. In this case, the Estonian state will first pay up to 100% of the costs and then the European Commission will compensate for it. This is quite an important step forward. All the countries of the European Union take the risk of swine fever very seriously. It is hoped that we will be able to suppress it on the territory of Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland, and this plague will not continue to spread. The second topic was dairying. We have always said that in the dairy sector, solutions must be sought first in the European Union's common measures. We had a very long and concise debate on the situation, particularly in the Baltic States and Finland.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U40	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U41	Thank you, manager. Minister of Agriculture! I'm glad you're still discussing. The Latvians, for example, are operating, they are not discussing, but are supporting farmers this year, for example, with an additional EUR 50 million. The faction of the Centre Party has initiated a draft law to postpone the reduction in the rate of income tax. Enough money would be released for farmers to receive their EUR 23 million next year, which they will be allowed to deliver under even a little more fairer conditions of competition. Do the Social Democrats support this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U42	Thank you. I am pleased to hear that you have come up with such a proposal. Since the decision-making process is now in the hands of the members of the Riigikogu, it is very difficult for me, as Minister of Agriculture, to add something. In any case, the top-up option in next year's state budget would certainly be very justified.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U43	Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U44	Thank you, Mr President. Austet Minister of Agriculture! I will come back to this Luxembourg issue. Can we talk today about concrete amounts to help smooth out the problems in our dairy sector?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U45	That's how I talk. We really had a very close discussion about the situation in the Baltic States and Finland. At the beginning of the debate, I was not very optimistic that we would achieve some kind of upheaval, but I dare say that this Monday we took a pretty big step forward in terms of principle that the dairy situation in the Baltic States and Finland should be dealt with separately. Only one of the 28 countries opposed it. As far as specific amounts are concerned, this will not be achieved, I believe, until November. In this respect, today's decision by the European Commission is very important. Today, the European Commission is discussing the budget balances for this year and it is very important where these budgetary balances are being allocated to. All Member States have worked very closely with the Commission's Commissioners to ensure that the budget balances are focused primarily on agriculture. Tonight, much more is known about what amounts we can talk about in general terms. What makes it difficult is that the whole process has remained in the time for the committees to change. Mr Ciolos is currently basically the last working week, and the new Commission will start from November. It is very important that this issue is also clearly on the table of the new Commissioner. There's a positive development, but you can't afford anything here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U46	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! I am pleased to hear that African swine fever is being taken seriously in Europe and that such measures are being taken. But when it comes to the dairy sector, do those asking for the support package and its assemblers remember that the profitability of the dairy sector was still 34%? I read it somewhere. Do you count that when you put this support package together?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U48	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, if I understand correctly, you spoke of a 34% drop in the price of milk. When we talk about arguments and that the three Baltic States and Finland are viewed separately in this context, argument No 1 here is the fall in the price of milk. Just as there are 28 Member States, there are 28 concerns. Where there's trouble with citrus, where there's trouble with vegetables and where there's trouble with pork. Among the concerns of all these 28 Member States, the situation in the Baltic dairy industry is very impressive. This is the basis on which we have been able to build our positions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U49	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U50	The next questioner should be Margus Tsahkna, but I can't give him a chance to ask, because he's just not here. The next question is therefore the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Urve Palole. The questioner is Kalev Kallo. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U51	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The implementation plan for Estonian maritime policy contained a number of very important activities that had to be carried out by 30 June. As we heard from the answer to the question, this implementation plan was approved by the government, but as your minister you alone extended the deadline until 15 September. By then, the Commission had made its proposals. What has become of these proposals and what will be the next steps on this basis? It has been exactly a month since this working group presented its proposals.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U52	Thank you, good questioner! Indeed, the group received a few months' extension. As I said in reply to your questioning, the reason was that since this work is very voluminous and requires analysis, it was worth giving more time than haste. Today, I can say that this analysis, which is prepared, is really very thorough and substantive. It's on. There are very fundamental proposals for changes in tax policy and the creation of social guarantees for seafarers through changes in tax policy, the possibility to compete again and 500-tonne and larger cargo ships could come back under the Estonian flag. We don't have ships like this right now. These compromises cannot be reached in one month. It has been a very broad-based work. There is also a great deal of involvement and agreement needed to implement all of this. These agreements were not reached in 20 years and cannot be agreed in the same way within one month. But we're working, we're convincing the parties. The Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Social Affairs are involved. Everyone has a role to play in making the proposals resulting from this analysis real. As I said in reply to the inquiry, there could certainly be one topic that is important in the context of the Riigikogu elections, whether or not the proposals resulting from the analysis are entering into a new coalition agreement, after all, these are, for the most part, proposals relating to money.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U53	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U54	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. These proposals, which are included in this analysis, are very comprehensive and are also mentioned in the implementation plan. It's clear what they are, we've all heard it. 'Work on' is also a very good answer. But the question was about more concrete steps. For example, I have heard information that may not be true, that the minister has not even been able to get together with this group, not to mention taking the next steps. So I would specifically like to reply to the question of whether a written proposal has been made to the Ministry of Finance, to which an answer is expected. The work is on, but the work is on all the time, so I'd like to hear a few concrete steps.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U55	Thank you very much for your question. I intend to meet the working group at the beginning of November, which is why we will move forward. It is clear that you, as the watcher and advocate of this issue, are, of course, waiting for very quick solutions. I would argue that all this work, which has been done from spring to mid-September, is very substantive, all of these analyses and results are substantive. This work was not done for 20 years. I assure you, I take this sector very seriously. But it doesn't matter whether it's one week here or that way. Once again, a very broad agreement is also needed in order for this implementation plan to take place. This cannot be done in one meeting. I've got my own schedule on how we're gonna move on with this. I don't think you have anything to worry about. On the contrary, if there were no analyses and no proposals from that point, it would not be possible to move forward, but it is now possible to move forward. I would also recommend to the Centre Party that if you put together an election program, you could make some sensible proposals from there to take your program in order to raise them on the table during the coalition negotiations. I hope that every party will get into this, it will also be easier to negotiate coalition when the socialist partners call the table.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U56	Kalev Kallo, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U57	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The Centre Party will certainly put these proposals into its programme and then have the opportunity to negotiate on this issue. But I also received one specific answer that you would like to meet at the beginning of November. It's been a month, but it hasn't even been properly looked at, let alone the next steps. I would like to remind you that this implementation plan was developed by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, which was approved by the government one year and four months later when it envisaged a maritime policy development plan which stated that this would be done within three months. All these things could be worked through at the Ministry. It is incomprehensible to me that the deadline set by myself cannot be met. It seems that the Ministry still has some sort of fifth-grade maritime policy issue. Is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U58	Thank you for your question. I cannot agree in any way that maritime policy is not important to the ministry or to me personally as a minister. In that case, I would not have given more time to carry out a serious analysis. Once again, I say there's no point in us running if we don't know where to run. We can get to the wrong place and spend a lot of time and money on it. I don't think that makes any sense. Perhaps it is wise to prepare, draw conclusions, analyse and then make decisions and, consequently, plan for action. I have been very familiar with this work. I guess the minister has his job ahead of him, so I'll be able to meet the working group in early November, and that's what I'll do. I'd say I'd rather have acted quickly and gotten worse. So I certainly can't accept your accusations.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U59	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U60	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. This implementation document was developed during Juhan Parts' appointment as Minister. I think it was certainly the right decision to grant a few months' extension, because there were very big disputes in this working group before. Of course, taxation of seafarers is fundamental, which requires a new approach to the Estonian tax system. The fact that there are no more merchant ships in Estonia shows that the tax system, which may be suitable for another sector, is not suitable for maritime affairs. I know that you are also basically familiar with the issue of the taxation of seafarers. There are currently no merchant ships under the flag of the Estonian state, several thousand Estonian sailors work under the flags of other countries, and these and their families have no social guarantees. In essence, do you think that maritime affairs and seafarers deserve a different tax treatment?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U61	Thank you. Yeah, I personally think you do. Estonia is the only country that has not introduced any tax exemptions for seafarers, except for certain short-term provisions of the EAS. We are special in the sense that we have no exceptions, that we are different from neighbouring countries as well as from all other maritime countries. In a situation where there are no cargo ships in the Estonian register with a gross tonnage of more than 500 tonnes, we have nothing to lose by imposing exceptions, we only have to win. Every ship that comes here will benefit first, but second, the sailors who work under the Estonian flag on this ship will be covered by social security. It is a major concern that 5000-6000 sailors sail under the flags of distant island states and have no social protection whatsoever. It is true that the Ministry of Social Affairs is working to conclude mutual agreements with these countries, but it is very difficult with these so-called rain islands. Every ship that comes under the flag of Estonia gives our seafarers social guarantees. We have offered that income tax could be 0%, social tax 10% and unemployment insurance rate 0%. It is true that, in order for guarantees to exist, the difference should be paid by the State. This is how our closest neighbours and the Nordic countries do, which guarantees social protection. I have calculated that the difference that the state would pay for is actually less than the profit derived from the ship flying the flag of Estonia, not to mention the benefits of social guarantees for people.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U62	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! My colleague, Kalev Kallo, spoke about specificity. Work is being done, but have any figures been set? I specifically ask: do we have, for example, a letter stating that by 2020, we would have cargo ships with a displacement of 20000 tonnes or 100000 tonnes of water, or would you simply have a general programme? Are there any specific figures in there, such as years, number and size of ships, total tonnage, etc.?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U64	Thank you. Yes, it is. Before I say that my recommendation to the group was also that these issues be dealt with in an open manner and that the proposals would not be politically influenced, either on the one hand or on the other. I said that these should be the kind of proposals that this very broad-based group really thinks that they could help us to talk about the large merchant ships flying the flag of Estonia again. I think that's the result of the job. Since there are very ambitious proposals, such as the proposal to change tax policy, this really requires a broad agreement at coalition level, but also at the level of Parliament, so that they can be implemented. Now a specific answer to a specific question. The intermediate indicator sets such a target that by 2020 there should be at least 35 cargo ships of more than 500 tonnes under the Estonian flag. It will be enforceable if we implement these measures, even more can be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U65	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U66	Let's take this opportunity. The next question is for Sven Mikser, the Minister of Defence, in the role of Prime Minister. Margus Tsahkna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U67	Thank you very much, Mr President, for allowing me to ask you this question. Minister of Defence in his duties as Prime Minister. My question is on the reform of working capacity. It's been burning all summer and autumn passion. This whole sector has repeatedly come to the streets to express its opposition to the reform of the capacity to work. Last Saturday, a major demonstration took place in the major Estonian cities on this subject. The problem is not that the objective of the labour capacity reform is wrong. Everyone agrees with that. The problem is, rather, that the necessary legislative changes have not been implemented and the opportunities for reform of the working capacity have not been used. Do you think that it is possible for the reform of working capacity to be taken down, paused and discussed with people with disabilities in a peaceful manner, so that they can support this reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U68	Thank you. I am undoubtedly glad that you had time to stop by, or I should have started answering Tõnis Palats' question about social democracy. But the work capacity reform is a very important and fundamental reform that has been prepared for a very long time. Certainly neither I nor you can correct the fact that the working hours of this Riigikogu will be over in February next year. I am very sorry that the previous government was unable to meet the deadlines for its work schedule. If these two draft reforms had reached this Chamber months or even a year earlier, it would certainly be easier for Parliament to make the necessary changes. It is a fact that very many of the people targeted by these drafts are concerned about major changes. It's understandable. In some cases, they are certainly concerned because they have been filled with unfounded fears, but in some cases they are fully justified. I agree with Eiki Nestor, who, as I recall, just yesterday said that it is worth doing this reform when the target groups come along and believe that this reform will be useful. The question of whether this bill, which is before you, can be made so good that it can still be adopted as a law during this parliamentary term, must be answered by the people in this Chamber, especially the members of the Social Affairs Committee. As a hardened optimist, I certainly would not write down the possibility that this bill can be improved. The Social Democrats have submitted their proposals for a draft Employment Capacity Allowance Act and have also developed their proposals for a draft Act amending the Social Welfare Act, the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and other laws. In common agreement, we will certainly be able to make this bill better.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U69	I would like to thank the Minister for Defence for his duties as Prime Minister, but I would like to ask you to respect two minutes. Margus Tsahkna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U70	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of Defense in charge of the Prime Minister! I didn't want to make this talk a party policy, but you did it yourself, criticizing the previous government. This draft has been prepared by the previous Minister for Social Affairs, the current Prime Minister, Taavi Rõivas. I understand that the conflict that the press has also resolved today, the conflict between the Socialists and the Reform Party, is based on the fact that this draft has been poorly prepared by the previous government, the previous Minister for Social Affairs and the current Prime Minister. But this reform directly affects 100000 people and, indirectly, many more people. As one of the parties in the government and as chairman of the party in the position of Minister for Social Protection, do you not think it is time to slow down and not sacrifice these people to coalition loyalty?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U71	Thank you. When it comes to government responsibility, it is essential to analyse the possible follow-up effects of all decisions. It is clear that people with disabilities who are in the target group of these two drafts, and many people who are not directly in this target group, are very critical. They are, on the one hand, dissatisfied with the current situation, but, on the other hand, they are concerned that the planned reform will not solve all their problems. I'm sure he won't. I believe that at least this first draft, which has undergone a number of changes in this House, is not as bad as the critical speeches are trying to show. But he certainly doesn't solve all the problems, just as no law or bill solves all the problems. As far as the second draft is concerned, as a Social Democrat, I would like to see the right number of changes that make it more acceptable to both those who are caring for themselves and those who need health rehabilitation. It is certainly possible to make these changes. I am convinced that, like most of the laws adopted in this Chamber, this law, if it is ever adopted, will not satisfy everyone. But if you choose to simply pull the brake and hope that the conditions will be better in the next composition and that this bill will become a law, or try to make this draft better in the course of the procedure and still adopt it as a law, then, as I said, as a hardened optimist, I would try to move towards another goal. If it turns out that, for some reason, this hall is not able to make a proper law of the material before you, then the following options must be considered.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U72	Thank you. Margus Tsahkna, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U73	Thank you very much. I'm gonna get on with this. Neither the Chamber nor the target groups have a different understanding of the objective of the employment capacity reform. Indeed, we need to help people with special needs to work in accordance with their abilities, so that they can take better care of themselves. The Minister of Social Security, Helmen Kütt, has been very critical. The legendary former Minister of Social Affairs, Eiki Nestor, has also said in Postimees today that a number of fundamental things have not been done. I'm still gonna ask you that question. At the moment, the social democrats actually have a responsibility, and they have the opportunity to hold back the process of working capacity reform here so that we can fix these things and prepare the services that people with disabilities and 13 000 carers want. Are you going to use your political position in the coalition and face the pressure of the current Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U74	Thank you. We intend to do everything we need to ensure that the laws are as good as possible. When we are talking about the draft law on working capacity support, we initiated an increase from EUR 640 to EUR 960 in the income limit leading to a reduction in the allowance. We initiated that the amount of disability pension will be maintained if the percentage is fixed for at least two years and if the old disability pension is higher than the amount obtained under the new law. We postponed the entry into force of the law for six months. I think that it is certainly not responsible government policy to try to solve problems by slowing down processes. This approach usually only delays the solutions. If there is a choice between constructively making an effort to improve the law or trying to push it over the edge of someone else's neck after us, then I think that the other option is less responsible. But I fully agree with your good colleague and my party partner, Eiki Nestor, who has drawn attention to the things that can be improved in this bill on rehabilitation, among other things, for the caretakers. We know that more than 12,000 have been registered, some of whom work, mostly part-time, because care rarely allows for full-time work. Work definitely needs to be encouraged and can be encouraged. Social democrats with such initiatives will certainly emerge in this process.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U75	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U76	Thank you, manager. Minister Mikser! I'll ask you a more general question. It seems to me that the Social Democrats have been placed in the role of a smaller brother in the government. First of all, this work capacity reform has been pinned down on you. Secondly, 25 million euros were taken away from the tea sector, and you have not been able to obtain any additional resources from the budget for farmers either. What's keeping you in the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U77	Thank you. It is not surprising that you have feelings for the social democrats. I'm sure I have different feelings about the party you belong to, but we don't have to talk about them right now. The Social Democrats went to government with the belief that, even in a short period of time, a number of important problems could be solved. Since the beginning of the coalition negotiations, we have also worked to resolve these problems. Many of our initiatives, which are in the coalition agreement, have become the law because of the constructive nature of this hall. Among other things, when it was said for years and years that raising universal child benefits is impossible or, at least, as if it were immoral and as if it were sowing money from an airplane, after going to the Socialist Government, this hall almost unanimously voted in favour of our proposal to increase child benefits, and not just to raise it, but to increase the circa 2.5 times. So social democrats have certainly had good initiatives, including extending the range of publicly funded school food recipients to upper secondary school. There are also certainly good things that will remain for the next government and for the next parliamentary term. Perhaps many of them will come about as socialist initiatives. It is natural in itself that you, as a Member of your opposition party, would be happy to see a coalition, including your party. But if you're looking for reasons why this isn't the case today, you're gonna have to look inside yourself.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U78	Thank you. Riigikogu Question Time is over. I apologize to Viktor Vasiliyev and Tõnis Palts and thank the ministers for performing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U79	Honourable Riigikogu! Due to the termination of the mandate of the member of the Riigikogu Tarmo Leinatamme, due to his death, an alternate member of the Riigikogu is based in Innar Mäesalu. Now Innar Mäesalu must take the oath of office. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U80	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! By taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu as part of the XII Riigikogu, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U81	It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Representative of the Government of the Republic Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U82	Mr. Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is today launching a draft law on ratification of the Council of Europe Convention against Trafficking in Human Beings. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by Andres Anvelt, Minister of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U83	I've adopted a bill. It is decided on the basis of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Now we're going to do a presence check. 74 members of the Riigikogu are present, 27 are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U84	The first item on today's agenda is the third reading of draft law amending the Copyright Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The commission has proposed to put the draft to a final vote on 697. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Copyright Act initiated by the Government of the Republic 697. Please take a stand and vote. There were 59 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the bill as a law, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The law amending the Copyright Act has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U85	The next item is the second reading of the draft Act 710 on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Kingdom of Morocco on the prevention of double taxation and prevention of tax evasion. Peter Laurson, member of the Finance Committee, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U86	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting, the Monetary Commission discussed the draft Act on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Kingdom of Morocco on the prevention of double taxation and prevention of tax evasion. No proposals had been received by 3 October, the deadline for submitting amendments. The Commission took the following procedural decisions: to send the draft to the plenary session of the Riigikogu by today, 15 October, to close the second reading and to put the draft to the final vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U87	Thank you. Please, Arto Aas, question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U88	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Can you tell us how big the trade between Estonia and Morocco is per year? What orders of magnitude are we talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U89	I don't know. We did not discuss it in the Commission, and I have also not taken an interest in how much it is. It's not that big.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U90	No more questions for the waitress, it's clear. Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. No amendments to the draft were received, so we cannot review them either. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote on 710. Honourable Riigikogu, I will put to the final vote if Mr Riisalu permits, draft law 710 on the ratification of the treaty on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion between the Republic of Estonia and the Kingdom of Morocco, initiated by the Government of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Estonia. Please take a stand and vote. 57 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U91	Today's third item is the second reading of the draft Act amending § 42 of the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Ms Mailis Reps, Member of the Cultural Committee of the Chair, please report!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U92	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! I would remind you that there is a very nice draft number 689 under which we are going to offer free school meals at upper secondary school. We discussed this draft in the Committee on Culture before the second reading. On 9 October, an amendment from the Committee on Culture as well as an amendment from the Central Party Group were examined. I will now take a closer look at the amendments that were received by the Committee on Culture. The amendment proposed by the Committee on Culture itself is editorial. This is linguistically precise and simplifies the reading of this law with a wide range of sounds after the adoption of the draft law. The Committee on Culture therefore took full and consensual account of this proposal. The second amendment aims at a minimum level of EUR 1 for the school lunch allowance. We reflected this quite thoroughly here at first reading. The justification for the amendment by the Centre Party Group is that extending the 78-cent support to upper secondary school level, given that young people are already large in upper secondary school and need a much higher calorie portion, it is very difficult to ensure this amount for 78 cents. The Centre Party Group pointed out that food prices have increased by 23% since 2010. This proposal was discussed in the Committee on Culture, but it was found that exactly the amount of 78 cents was currently planned for the budget. It was hoped that one day it would be possible to come back to this issue. The result of the vote remained quite traditional when looking at the proportion of opposition and coalition. In particular, the Central Party Group's proposal was opposed by 5 and by 4 members of the Commission. The proposal was therefore not supported. No further proposals were received from the Committee on Culture. The Committee on Culture has agreed to send the draft to second reading today and to propose that the second reading be completed so that the law can be adopted as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U93	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U94	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, In itself, the idea of offering free school food at upper secondary school is very good, and we certainly support this bill. But, as you yourself pointed out, 78 cents can no longer be paid for the cost of food, not to mention the additional wage costs and the costs incurred in preparing food. Does it not happen that Parliament is sending a message to the public that school food in high school is free of charge, but, in fact, local authorities are being put in a position where they need to find additional resources so that school food is really free of charge for students? Is it not that Parliament gives the task, but does not provide sufficient financial cover for the local authorities? After all, it could actually belong to the fact that it is contrary to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U95	Thank you. Indeed, the Committee on Culture was based on the fact that the Ministry of Education and Research must have a proper overview of the costs and needs of school food, both at the meeting with the Minister for Education and Research and in the preparation of the explanatory memorandum. The Ministry of Education and Research was advised to come up with this analysis. However, there were indeed these voices in the Commission that free school food in this form puts great pressure on the local authorities, because the support is no longer sufficient to cover the bulk of the costs, it does not even cover food expenditure.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U96	Thank you very much. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U97	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, Have local government associations been negotiated and do they have coordination? Have they taken into account that from next year's budget, they themselves will have to find additional resources that, unfortunately, have not been allocated to them?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U98	Thank you, good questioner! As far as negotiations between the Government of the Republic and local authorities are concerned, this was not analysed very thoroughly in our Committee on Culture. However, we were given the same answer to the same question that the education chapter also includes the school food and that it has always been there. Local authorities have asked for a grant of 1.5 euros. The Government of the Republic and local authorities have not reached an agreement here. Local authorities have requested EUR 1.5 based on their calculations, but 78 cents is only about half of it. According to the Minister of Education and Research, the main difference of opinion is how much of this half-euro is the cost of food and how much of the other half is. The Ministry of Education and Research wishes to base itself on compensation for food costs and not on compensation for other costs. According to the Minister for Education and Research, it is also important to note what also sounded in the Committee on Culture, that support does not have to be in full, as it varies widely in local governments.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U99	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. We're going to the negotiations. Please, Etti Kagarov!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U100	Good President of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu! From 1 January 2015, free school lunch is guaranteed for all upper secondary school students. This bill equates more than 22,500 upper secondary school students with pupils in comprehensive school and vocational schools who are already entitled to free school lunch. This is planned at EUR 3.1 million in the state budget. One of the objectives of social policy is to reduce poverty. For years, Estonia has been one of the most painful problems with the large number of children growing in poverty. Statistics Estonia's collection "Child welfare" shows that 17% of children lived in relative poverty in Estonia and 9.5% lived in absolute poverty in 2011. A warm school lunch for children is an important means of supporting families in need and improving their well-being. There are already several municipalities in Estonia that take care of their children and provide free school lunch for the whole school family or, on an ad hoc basis, for upper secondary school students. It is now an opportunity throughout Estonia in all schools in all municipalities, and equal treatment of children is guaranteed. Equal opportunities and justice have been identified as values in the population health development plan. The promotion of healthy lifestyles can significantly improve the health status of children. It is very important that young people grow healthy and become active members of society. One of the focus of the Youth Agenda is to reduce the impact of unequal situations on young people's development opportunities and prevent exclusion. Ministries have developed a large number of development plans, but the bill we are discussing today is something concrete for our children: a free warm school lunch that will help achieve these high goals. In upper secondary school, children's physical development takes place quickly, they eat more than ever and later, especially young boys. I remember eating my sons at that age. The refrigerator door was always open between meals. I can't explain the behavior of the children, why they wouldn't pay the meal money at school, looking for a variety of excuses, food wasn't delicious, etc. Strangely enough, when the school meal began to be free for everyone, they were happy to eat. Yes, I agree with the previous speakers that the cost of a school lunch cannot be satisfied. But this is already the next challenge that needs to be addressed and solutions to be found. Of course, free school lunch is not a magic wand that solves all the problems of education, social and health policies and youth work, but it is one step towards reducing child poverty and social inequalities and promoting healthy lifestyles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U101	Thank you very much. Next call chair to Barbi Pilvre, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U102	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, There's a saying in Estonia that you're what you eat. I'm sure it's not a proverb yet, but it's true in popular culture. As a social democrat, I certainly welcome the fact that from now on, the school lunch will also be free for upper secondary school students. As a parent, I am more concerned because a child who is in school for a long day gets warm food and is not tempted to go to a school buffet to buy snacks and chips with the same money. In fact, I wanted to raise the issue of school buffets and vending machines when discussing the subject of school lunch. I am interfering with the freedom to conduct a business here, but I have the feeling that if a school lunch is generally available, schools should think deeply about the need for buffets and vending machines. Of course, Snickers is better for sale than fresh fruit and greasy pie tastes better for hungry students than for carrots. But, unfortunately, eating such junk food leads to health problems, and as parents, we are concerned about the increasing weight of our children or the corrupted digestion. Unfortunately, it is not possible to sell perishable foods in these machines, so it must be understood that there are always crisps, various sweets and colored lemonades that are full of e-substances. While our people are becoming increasingly aware of food choices, monitoring the composition of food products, having eco-shops and making organic food in restaurants, schools are like free wild businesses, where buffets and machine guns can freely sell all kinds of junk. I understand that sports clubs have such a fast snack place, but in a situation where school lunch is available to everyone and free of charge, every school could knock on its conscience and consider it to make junk food unattainable. Perhaps the solution is that the buffet either radically changes its choice of food or that the machines are still being taken out of schools. As a result, the children are healthier, the money remains, and the parents are satisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U103	Thank you very much. Lisa-Ly Pakosta next, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U104	Ladies and gentlemen, As a conservative, I also support this draft and the provision of free school lunch at all levels of the general education system. This makes the different levels of education more equal and brings closer and closer to the goal that is not directly related to school food, i.e. how equally we deal with, for example, upper secondary school education and vocational training. I am pleased that the choices of a young person, whether to go to vocational education or upper secondary school, no longer depend as much on the economic situation of the family as they have so far. We have changed the basic school and upper secondary school law in such a way that it is possible to offer more and more vocational education in the upper secondary school system itself, and many vocational schools in Estonia are moving in the direction of providing more and more secondary education. The fact that young people do not have to make their educational choices on the basis of any external conditions is, in fact, a major goal common to all of us. Of course, as a parent, I am also happy. I hope that local governments across Estonia, including my home municipality Tallinn, will still leave the missing part of their budgets to bear, and will not direct this obligation of paying money to parents, although one of the weakest places in the bill provides for this possibility. I recall that, according to the current regulation, which is not planned to change, school lunch must cover at least 30% of the daily food needs of a young growing person. The municipalities must therefore take into account that the size of the diet offered in the first, second and third grades is undoubtedly not what a 19-year-old young man needs. There are a few other issues that I also touched on in the Commission and which I would like to emphasise in this large Chamber. The first concerns the specific food needs and food allergies, which are an increasing number of problems both in kindergartens and schools. We recall the book Discipline and Punish (Discipline and Punish), written decades ago by the French great thinker Foucault. He compared the development of the school system and the prison system there and, as a French scientist, pointed out how through time the conditions in the school had become better than the conditions in the prisons, although both systems had the same status at first sight. If we are looking at Estonian law and precisely at the prison law, we find that every prisoner is obliged to provide food based on the special needs, food allergies and other special health requirements or wishes of a particular prisoner, and all the food menus of the prisons are reviewed by the doctor, who is also involved in preparing them. However, if we look at those young, good people who are away from the prison system, or are studying at a fully ordinary school, their diet will be much more random. Yes, of course, there are regulations that regulate it too, but when a young person is allergic to a food component, he is currently not able to get a special menu, unlike a prisoner. We know from Western European countries that this problem is not just a problem in Estonia; we could say that there is less in Estonia than in other, so-called developed countries. This is one of the diseases of the countries that are keeping pace with development. But we must also undoubtedly find a solution to this question, so that every school youth who has special needs for food can get their healthy school lunches just as firmly as his fellow students who do not have such special needs. This undoubtedly places additional demands on the municipality and the school. They do not appear in any way in the draft text or in the explanatory memorandum at the moment, and I therefore considered it necessary to over-emphasise them in this speech. Then, at least, we can invite municipalities and schools to pay attention to this cycle as well. The Committee on Culture also raised a question which has not been very touched here, but which still occasionally raises the question of whether school lunch should be part of the social system or education system at all. I support without hesitation that this should be part of the education system. It is not reasonable to share activities in the same building between several ministries. Just as it has not been considered reasonable in prisons, it is not reasonable to consider it reasonable in the education system. Just in case, I would stress that the comparison between the prison system and the school system is based solely on the approach of this great French thinker. Finally, I would like to emphasise another right, which was mentioned by the previous speaker, Barbi Pilvre, but which many parents and schools do not know. As far as these vending machines and school holidays are concerned, all schools have the full right to regulate what is being offered to children at school. For example, in this school where my children are attending, the board of trustees have decided that unhealthy food is not provided in the school buffet; it offers a very narrow range of foods. This school has been given first place on several occasions in a healthy school buffet competition or has reached the number of people named there. I go by Estonian schools a lot because of my work, and I have noticed that many schools are not aware of this right. I therefore use this forum here and call on all schools and all parents to make this decision to at least review what is being offered at school. Indeed, if fruit and vegetables and milk, perhaps bread scissors, are available during recess, for example, then there is no point in this buffet, even though it does not make any sense to the vending machine. However, only parents are the decision-makers. If the school administration were to oppose the wishes of parents, or the interests of the child's health, it would actually violate all the basic laws governing education and the monitoring of children's health in schools. In addition, local governments have also encountered problems when, for example, the school board has suggested that there should not be a booth under the school door that sells unhealthy foods, when the school has already decided that they should not be offered in the school house. My final call is for local governments to always listen to parents, school councils and management on these issues. In any case, children's health is more important than the annual profits of some booth chains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U105	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U106	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, You could say it's gonna take some time, but it's gonna work. So much has been said about this subject and so many drafts have been tabled. So thank God that the elections are approaching and there are social democrats in the government who finally managed to turn this bill, I hope, with everyone's help, into a law. But if there's talk in this hall today that school lunch is guaranteed, I'll ask who and what's guaranteed. 78 cents doesn't guarantee anyone anything, and I don't think it's worth sending out such a false message. Yes, if this bill becomes a law, the state will partially guarantee the cost of a school lunch, and that is what must be said. Whether local governments can cover the other half of it is still unclear. I am afraid that some municipalities may be overwhelmed by this, because there has been no additional resources given to them. Here again it is a commitment that the state has failed to negotiate with the municipalities. But no matter what, let's just take half a step. I can remind you that 1/4. The school lunch to class was already free of charge on the proposal of the Centre Party, and it is the same in comprehensive school. But no matter who has put forward this proposal, it is good that there seems to me today at least to be a consensus that this bill will become a law. I think that a free school lunch should not be too much for the country, especially in a situation where the number of children is decreasing. I think it is elementary, it could be insured for children, just as it is in our neighbouring country, Finland. Why not talk about free lunch in kindergarten? If we don't take care of the kids, who else are we supposed to take care of? The Centre Party supports this draft and I hope that you will also support our amendment so that this support will be EUR 1 per school lunch. At least that would be some kind of normal amount. I think the state will find that money. If you want to know where the sources of cover can be found, we can tell you that. Good luck with the vote!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U107	Thank you. Please, Lauri Swan!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U108	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am also very pleased that this bill has finally come before the Riigikogu plenary. In my opinion, the main subject of this draft is the health of young people, which, in addition to mobility and adequate rest, is a healthy diet. This is a clear message from the state, a very good message. As President of the Estonian School Sports Association, I am pleased to note that the state, for its part, is not only giving a good signal to the campaign we are currently doing in the School Sports Association, in which we explain to young people that fast food, energy drinks and sugar-containing drinks and other such things can be delicious and convenient to consume, but in the long term their effects are extremely damaging. So in this sense, too, it is a good thing that the country is supportive of our campaign. My colleague, Liisa Pakosta, spoke about school buffets and their product range. I fully agree that the product range should be reviewed and that we should draw attention to what we offer young people in school territory. We certainly cannot begin to regulate these things with prohibitions, but rather with information and a friendly agreement so that healthy food can be provided on the school territory. It's so human that within five or ten minutes of recess, they just run through the buffet and take what gets in their hands. If there's anything else sweet or something that's popular among young people, it's definitely going to be done. But if this possibility were not as widespread as it is now, it would improve young people's eating habits. A free school lunch for upper secondary school students is also extremely positive in that there are families in Estonia where a young person may not receive warm food once a day, or school food may be the only hot meal a day. For the growing organism of a young person, however, warm food is known to be extremely important. The good news is that this legislative amendment will hopefully become part of 22,500 young people from around 20,000 households and one hundred municipalities of the circa, so a very significant proportion of young people in Estonia. This means an additional EUR 3 million, which contributes to Estonian youth and their health. There was also the question of why this amount could not be higher, why it could not be EUR 1 or EUR 1.40, as the municipalities have taken into account for a single meal. Indeed, this amount could be greater, I would also say that, but I would stress that the calculations have been made because of our economic capacity. If, in the future, our budget will be better on this side, we will certainly consider that these amounts will move in time from year to year. However, the Commission did propose to the Ministry of Education and Research that we have detailed statistics to which Mr Mailis Reps referred and which were promised to be sent in the near future. This shows how many municipalities are already compensating for school lunches for upper secondary school youths, for example. There would be EUR 0.78 extra support for these municipalities. But these figures we'll be able to do soon, then we'll be able to look and act. My personal opinion is that, in the case of all kinds of subsidies, we should move towards being needs-based. More should be done to help those who really need support. But it's a question of the future and the perspective. All in all, I am very pleased that this draft supports the trend that young people should be healthier and better fed. We certainly have the support of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U109	Thank you. Call chair, Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U110	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I now speak on my own behalf and talk about what I could not mention as a Commission waitress. What is the biggest victory of this bill? First of all, the fact that the school food allowance will finally apply to upper secondary school students, they will receive free school food, although it will not be free for the municipality for long. The second and perhaps the most important victory is that this free school food has been supported by various coalitions. However, I have a completely different opinion than Lauri, who, in the last sentences of her speech, expressed the hope that we would ever discuss needs-based school food support. In the case of such universal school food support, which applies to all, support from different coalitions is very important in order to maintain it as a critical part of the education system. For more than ten years, we have been catering for basic school students for free at Estonian school and have seen that the quality of food has improved considerably with this provision of food for all than ten years ago. Maybe someone else will remember that time. It is also important that the school canteen no longer has a bad reputation. This is a place where people talk together and are happy to meet friends. In some respects, I agree with the criticism, but there are schools where the buffet is very closely monitored, there are raw vegetables and fruits on the menu, and young people are happy to go there, literally take carrots and discuss, for example, the team projects that the teacher has assigned to them. This good reputation, improved food quality and the possibility of free school food for all has created an understanding of the meaning of catering in education. From a health point of view, it is not only about movement but also about food. These are the biggest wins of this bill. However, as far as financing is concerned, we are really starting with 78 cents, but I am convinced that the next Riigikogu will return to the subject of school food, because the financing of school food has put considerable pressure on local authorities. We have promised parents that school food is free, but it is actually covered, I am convinced of it, about half of these costs. We look forward to the analysis of the Ministry of Education and Research, but it is quite likely that the wishes of the local authorities, which they have brought to the negotiating table, EUR 1.5, have been carefully considered. Lastly, I believe and hope that the next Riigikogu will discuss supporting the catering of kindergarten children. The feedback from local authorities and child protection workers is that deep problems in the diet of children begin at a much younger age than seven years of age. The arrival of free food in kindergartens is certainly the next step that we need to discuss together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U111	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Let us examine the amendments. Two amendments to the draft have been received. The first proposal is from the lead committee and has been fully taken into account. The second amendment is from the Centre Party Group; the lead committee has not taken account of it. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U112	Thank you. I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U113	Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 2, tabled by the Central Party Group. The Governing Commission's proposal is to disregard this. Please take a stand and vote. 13 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour and 39 against, with no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Both amendments have been examined. The Commission's proposal is that the second reading of draft 689 should be completed. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U114	The fourth item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on identity documents and state fees initiated by the Government of the Republic. Rein Lang, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U115	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I have the honour to introduce you to the procedure of a very good draft in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. As a reminder, this is a draft initiated by the Government of the Republic, initiated by the Government on 30 June. a. The first reading took place on 17 September and the deadline for submitting amendments was 1 October. By this deadline, an amendment to the draft was tabled by me. The Constitutional Commission prepared a second reading of the draft at its meeting on 13 October, where officials of the Ministry of the Interior also participated. The Commission has examined the amendment I tabled and decided to support it. I will explain simply and quickly what the amendment is about. It provides that, in certain cases, the digital identity card of an e-resident may also be issued by the Minister of the Interior of the Republic of Estonia, if there is a strong public interest, i.e. in this case a strong public interest. We also had some debate about the term 'big public interest'. Academist Jaak Aaviksoo asked if it would not be reasonable to use the term 'big public interest', but since such a design has not been used in any law so far, it was decided to stick to the 'big public interest' used so far. The Commission also initiated an amendment which is technical in law. One implementing provision is deleted from the draft as the need for this provision has fallen. Then a debate was held on how to move forward with this draft. Urmas Reinsalu proposed that the plenary session be made on Monday, the day before yesterday, that the second reading of this draft be added to the agenda. That's what they did. The House accepted what once again shattered the myth that the good proposals of the opposition would not be taken into account. The proposal was supported by consensus. The Assembly was also invited to conclude today the second reading of this draft and to send it to the third reading by 21 October. That's all I got. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U116	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you, Rein Lang! Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. Let us examine the amendments. There are three amendments to the draft. Amendment 1 is from Mr Lang, the proposal of the commission is to take full account of this proposal. Amendment 2 is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 3 is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. The amendments have been examined. The Commission's proposal is that the second reading of draft 699 should be completed. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U117	We're going to the fifth item. The first reading of the Defence Forces Service Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Act on the Implementation of the Defence Forces Service Act and the Act amending the Law on the Organisation of Health Services begins with the first reading of 721. For your presentation, Secretary of Defense Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U118	Honourable Riigikogu! It is a pleasure to introduce you to the draft law amending the Defence Forces Service Act initiated by the Government, the Act on the Implementation of the Defence Forces Service Act and the Act on the Organisation of Health Services. Its aim is to move forward with the policy of the Defence Forces and the Veterans of the Defence League, already approved in 2012, by introducing a number of new measures into this policy, the content of which is to provide additional certainty for veterans about the future and give them the opportunity to return more smoothly to civil life and the labour market. Let me be brief about what will change from the laws in force if this bill becomes a law. First of all, according to this draft, all veterans will be able to complete themselves at the expense of the state or acquire a new specialty. This option will be much wider than it has been before. At present, only persons who have suffered damage to health due to the performance of their duties and are therefore exempted from active service can claim reimbursement of the cost of studies. The draft provides for further training and retraining for all active military personnel who have participated in an international military operation or suffered permanent damage to health in the operational service, i.e. exemption from active service is not a prerequisite for obtaining this benefit. Participation in further education and retraining is preceded by career guidance, which will prepare an individual training plan for each individual. The draft also removes the time limit under which only the person who starts to study within two years of being released from active service can apply for reimbursement of study expenses under the current law. Secondly, the draft provides for professional assistance and advice to those close to veterans, if necessary, in a broader way. If the law in force provides for rehabilitation, psychological assistance and social counselling for members of his family in the event of the death or permanent damage to the health of an active military member who participated in an international military operation, this will be granted to members of the family of all injured armed forces and not only to members of the armed forces who participated in an international military operation. Clearly, in the course of their service assignments, conscripts and reservists may be seriously injured, the family is facing an equally dramatic event, and these people also need professional help and advice to adapt to this situation. A third important change is that the draft provides for disability pensions for injured members of the Defence Forces even after reaching retirement age. According to the current law, a person who has lost all or part of his or her capacity to work in the performance of his or her duties is entitled to a disability pension until his or her retirement age has reached his or her retirement age, and now he or she is entitled to a disability pension when he or she reaches the retirement age. The fourth important change is the possibility for active troops to take family members on a longer mission. A flexible reconciliation of service and family life is essential for active troops, and the more time goes on, the greater the impact this will have on the satisfaction of active troops with the service as a whole. The possibility of linking or uniting the professional and family life of the troops is one of the measures to achieve the objectives of the Defence Forces. In our view, it is important that the active force should not choose between progress and family life in the ministry, but that they form a whole. To this end, the draft ensures that the active troops are able to take family members on a training mission longer than six months, which could not be carried out in accordance with the law in force. All these changes are planned to enter into force on 1 January 2015. The additional costs related to the implementation of the amendments are planned for the Ministry of Defence budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U119	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Secretary of Defense. Aivar Riisalu, Vice-Chairman of the National Defence Commission, would you like to speak with me?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U120	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft under discussion was discussed by the National Defence Committee before the first reading at its meeting on 6 October, in which the Deputy Secretary-General for Defence Planning of the Ministry of Defence, Jonathan Vseviov, Deputy Head of the Defence Service Department, Captain Tõnis Messaging, and Lawyer Kati Fun took part as the representative of the initiator of the draft. Now I'm going to give you a little more details on the bill. The draft is based, as the Minister said, on the veteran policy of the Defence Forces and the Defence League, so the draft provides for the possibility of further training and retraining of all veterans, and the advice is extended to members of the family of veterans, including members of the family of those injured and killed in the performance of their service duties in Estonia. It also provides for the keeping of records of beneficiaries of guarantees, including veterans, and the income of beneficiaries of incapacity for work upon reaching retirement age is maintained. Procedural decisions were taken unanimously. At the session of 6 October, the National Defence Committee decided to consensually propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft law under discussion be included on the agenda for the first reading of the session of the Riigikogu on 15 October, and the speaker was appointed as rapporteur. At the same time, the National Defence Committee decided to consensually propose that the Riigikogu conclude the first reading of bill 721. The deadline for submitting amendments is 10 working days, i.e. 29 October at 5.15 p.m., according to the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U121	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? Please, Lauri Laasi!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U122	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, have some observations on this bill. The change in the system of guarantees for the service of our Defence Forces has taken place in many ways in recent years as an urgent response, which has not been a comprehensive, thought-out and balanced action with a view to creating a better system. So far, only the needs of the Afghan mission have been taken into account, but now it was a time of urgency to review the measures put in place and to liquidate old debts years ago. This bill creates opportunities for the conversion and further training of veterans, for example, as well as professional support for loved ones, if their member of the Defence Forces' family has been seriously injured or killed in Estonia, provides a basis for calculating veterans, and for seriously injured members of the Defence Forces who had reached retirement age before their incapacity pension, the pension will continue to be paid in the amount of the old disability pension. All of this must also be put into practice. I consider it necessary to initiate a discussion on the concept of a veteran in the coming years. It would be fair to treat as veterans those who have long served in the Defence Forces but have not been on a foreign mission. Right now, the Defence Forces don't even have a chance to go on a mission. I also doubt whether a veteran status should be granted to a conscript diagnosed after a couple of weeks of service and sent to a 10% disability reserve. At the same time, I stress that the guarantees for the service of the Defence Forces cannot be decided with a couple of years' perspective, but rather with a couple of decades' perspective. Nor can these decisions be made emotionally, but must be made on the basis of data and rationally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U123	Thank you very much. Any more calls? Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U124	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Estonia is a small country, our greatest value is our people. Whether it is the creation of state wealth, daily work in our workplace or a special contribution to the security of society, putting our lives and health at risk every day, we must stand up for our people. It is these latter professions and voluntary activities, which are aimed at ensuring the security of other people and where there is a clear element of danger, that must be the focus of our attention. I am thinking not only of the defence forces and the defence alliances, but also of the rescuers and the police, of the volunteers, of the rescuers and of the relief police. People who are willing to sacrifice their lives and health for the well-being of other citizens deserve special care and attention from all of us. This bill is part of the implementation of Estonian Veteran Policy. It is precisely those people who have contributed to the protection of the Estonian state that are involved in the policy of veteranism, as well as the draft, both in foreign missions and in participating in military training in Estonia. With the introduction of a veteran policy in 2012 and the subsequent steps to improve the law, we are building a relationship of trust between the state and the state's defences. A systematic approach is very important here. The draft at issue today is not the first step in implementing veteran policy; this step was taken on 10 April 2014 when the Riigikogu adopted draft law 579 as a law. The Act adopted in spring introduced the payment of a one-off benefit in the event of incapacity for work of a member of the Defence Forces and the Defence League, an increase in the active service pension for participating in an international military operation, an increase in the disability pension and an increase in the survivor's pension. The measures listed have already been implemented. There is now another important step on our tables, which will create opportunities for further training and retraining for members of the Defence Forces, including the Defence League, who have participated in an international military operation or suffered damage to health in active service, the counselling will be extended to all members of the members of the members of the members of the Defence Forces and the Defence League, including members of the family of those injured and killed in the course of their service duties in Estonia, the recipients of guarantees, including veterans, will be accounted for and the income of beneficiaries of disability pensions will be maintained even after reaching retirement age. The Social Democratic Party Group considers the draft to be very important, and it will certainly receive the full support of the Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U125	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The Commission's proposal is that the first reading of draft 721 should be completed. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at 5.15 p.m. on 29 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U126	We're going to the next item. The first reading of the draft Act amending the Ordering of Arts Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I ask the Minister of Culture, Urve Tiidus, for a speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U127	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I'd like to introduce you to a bill that seeks to amend the ordering law for works of art. The existing law has been in force for almost four years now. During this period, some bottlenecks have emerged in the process of ordering works of art, which is the result of proposals to amend the law. The amendments aim to make this law that improves the artistic market and the aesthetic environment easier and clearer to apply. The amendment of the Ordering of Arts Act is also in line with the fundamentals of cultural policy until 2020. The development document states that the law must specify which works of art can be ordered on the basis of it and how to ensure a high artistic level of ordering. Now I will be brief on the substance of the draft. As is known, the law applies to public buildings built by the State, if the amount of construction procurement exceeds EUR 750000. The law also provides for a ceiling for the price of ordering works of art, i.e. EUR 65000. The Ministry of Culture does not raise the maximum price for ordering works of art with the draft, and the fundamentals of the law do not change. As stated above, implementation of the law will become simpler and clearer. You're asking how. First of all, participation by artists in competitions is facilitated, as the procedures are simpler and the criteria for participation are clearer. This, in turn, must ensure the participation of a larger number of artists, while greater competition creates, as life shows in other areas, a greater likelihood of a higher quality result, which is ordered and executed works of art. So far, the number of proposals has been less than ten on average, the largest number of participants being 19, the lowest 1. The conditions for organising the competition will now be laid down, allowing artists to prepare ideas in depth and to carry it out in a high-quality manner later. This means a minimum period of time and the possibility for the contracting authority to pay the artist part by part for the work, as the artist may not have the means to create a large-scale work due to the lack of initial capital. It also specifies one of the basic principles of the law that only works of visual art can be ordered, as well as how to ensure a high artistic level of ordered works. This guarantee is greater involvement of the jury's expert members throughout the entire subscription process. Clarification has come to the table because of the interpretation of a work of art that is too spacious in practice, which has allowed the works of visual art to be equated with essential consumer goods in the building. The artist's freedom of creation remains a priority, and the ordering of items which are functional parts of the building and which should be acquired in any case is excluded under this law. Inconsistency with the Public Procurement Act will be eliminated. So far, artistic procurement has been treated as a design contest under the Public Procurement Act. The Public Procurement Act provides for a design contest, true, for the purchase of a service in the field of architecture, for example, but not for the acquisition of an object or a work of art. That little contradiction was in the law. In order to eliminate this contradiction, the design competition for ordering a work of art must be transformed into a standard open competition outside the Public Procurement Act, but the contracting authority awards the contract to the winner of this competition in accordance with the Public Procurement Act. There is an opportunity to postpone competitions because in practice there are situations where several buildings and separate procurements are being built on one large territory in succession. The timing enables unhindered works of art to be ordered and done in accordance with the order of construction. One very important point is that public communication will be improved. When works of art are ordered under this law, people on the ground and farther away need to know better why and what has been ordered, where these works are located, how they can be seen and who is their author. This information is also shared on the customer's website. It can be concluded that, in the event of the proposed changes, the cases in which a work of art is to be ordered will be clarified, the process of ordering works of art will become clearer and the division of administrative and national supervision competences will be more precise. A great request is to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U128	Thank you very much. Any questions? Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U129	Thank you. Madam Minister! I understand that two or three years is not the time to draw conclusions. But in that time, has the disputes gone through until the trial, or has everything gone through peacefully?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U130	Thank you very much for this question. According to my information, there have been no cases.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U131	Any more questions? No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Culture Urve Tiidus! Paul-Eerik Rummo, Member of the Cultural Committee of the Chair, for a co-report!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U132	President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Riigikogu! This draft was on the agenda of the Committee on Culture on Tuesday 7 October. The Committee on Culture was presented to the Committee on Culture, and it was justified by the honourable Minister of Culture, who has just done so in this chair. She was assisted by Lia Lin, Legal Adviser to the Ministry of Culture, and Maria-Kristiina Soomre, Art Adviser. The Commission showed a clear understanding of the need for this draft. We have a good overview of how this law has worked so far and which has led to the need for changes. Some specific questions were put by the Commission. For example, it was asked whether this law would apply to reconstruction, not just to new construction. The answer was yes: it is in the current version of the law and will continue to be so. The question was whether the sum included 1% of the cost of construction was both the cost of the artist's honorary work and the cost of producing the work. The answer was yes: this 1% real amount is known in advance and it determines how the money is distributed between the cost of the honorary and the cost of producing the work. There was a question of what exactly is meant by the requirement that the jury be experts with the same qualifications. The answer was that since the current contracting authorities, in particular the RKAS, who have been the largest contracting authority, prefer to restrict an artist who submits his application to a competition to be a member of a higher education or at least a corresponding creative association, it is logical that the jury who is going to examine this application would have the same qualifications to be able to evaluate and compare the applications submitted. However, in the case of jury members and experts, it is not a direct qualification but an educational requirement. There was a question of whether the competition could come with the works already completed, not necessarily creating a new work at the client's request. Indeed, according to the law in force, it is possible that the artist will already present his finished work, but in any case he must submit it to the competition and offer it to the specific place where the contracting authority wishes. There was also the question of whether, in principle and practically, it was possible that the competition could also be won by works of art with a cost higher than that of 1%. We have received the reply that this provision of the current law will remain in force when the law is amended, so that the contracting authority can order more works or more expensive works than it can hold in 1%, but in this case it must take into account that it itself covers the price difference, i.e. the price difference that will arise in this case will be covered by the contracting authority. These were substantive and curious questions, which all received good answers. The following procedural decisions were taken: to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 15 October, today, to appoint a rapporteur before you, to propose that the first reading be closed, and if the House decides to close the first reading, we would like to set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 5.15 p.m. All these procedural decisions were taken in a consensual manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U133	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Paul-Eerik Rummo! Is there a desire to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. The Commission's proposal is that the first reading of draft 735 should be completed. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft. a on 29 October at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U134	Our seventh item today is the first reading of draft law 728 amending the Law on study grants and student loans initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Education and Science of the Chair, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U135	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will introduce you to the amendments to the Study Grants and Student Loan Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. As we know, during the composition of this Riigikogu, we have adopted legislation to implement the reform of higher education. We have stipulated that free learning is possible when the training is conducted with a nominal time. One important support mechanism for the implementation of this system has been the need-based system of education grants, which ensures that students from less-insured families can focus on their studies and obtain higher education. At the time when the need-based draft law on study grants was processed in this Chamber, a fairly effective and simple system was chosen to determine how to grant it. There have been some shortcomings in its implementation, as was foreseen. We have done an analysis and we want to clarify and amend the system with this draft. The aim is, on the one hand, that all students in need of state assistance and support receive support, and, on the other hand, that no talented student should be left in the middle of higher education because the financial opportunities of his/her family are difficult. This draft amends two aspects of the Education Grants and Student Loan Act already adopted. I'll talk about them separately. First of all, in Estonia, the system for applying for needs-based education support is really very innovative and effective. Students can apply when they are in any place, only need internet access, an ID card and a computer or a smart device. The answer to the grant or refusal is received within a few minutes and the grant is received in the student's bank account within seven working days at the latest. I'm sure it's very good. The problem is, however, that only an automated application system leaves no room for a more personalised approach and for possible emerging and already emerging exceptional cases, which may depend on the continuation of the student's studies. In order for this effective online system to function, the law describes quite strictly the conditions that a student must meet and for which data must be included in the registers. On the one hand, the concept of a student's family has been quite thoroughly spelled out in the law and, on the other hand, when determining the need-based education allowance, the income of the family is assessed on the basis of the income tax return of the previous year. This means that in worse cases, the education allowance is granted on the basis of data that are over one year old. Here's the first problem. If the financial situation of the student has deteriorated unexpectedly during the year, for example, some parents have become unemployed, become unable to work or something else has happened, then the register does not reflect these data and the changed economic situation and, based on an automatic register-based system, the student will be deprived of support. This is essentially unfair if, despite the student meeting the criteria for need-based learning support because he or she is in a difficult economic situation, he or she misses his or her education support for bureaucratic reasons. I'll tell you one more thing. The second category of exceptional cases, which is relevant in this context, concerns the concept of family. According to the Act, the income of all members of the family as defined in the Act is taken into account when determining the need-based education allowance. For example, the total amount of the income of the mother and father on a registry basis does not mean that the student does not need a needs-based education allowance, but the parents live separately and one of the parents does not support the child's studies. In this situation, the student will also be deprived of student support, despite the fact that his or her actual economic situation is such that he or she should receive support. In order to remove these two bottlenecks, we propose a specific type of need-based education support, which is described in the law as a new form of education support. This is a specific needs-based support specifically designed to address specific cases. We are creating a mechanism by which students who have received a rejection decision in a registry-based system, or system, have said that they will not receive student support, can prove that they are actually in such an economic situation that they should receive it, and that they will have another way of getting it. According to the draft, this specific needs-based support, unlike the general needs-based education allowance, which is coordinated and distributed centrally and on a register basis, would start to be determined and paid by the higher education institution closest to the student and will certainly be best perceived by which students it is essential to continue their studies. To this end, additional resources will be allocated to educational institutions, including the organisation of grants. It is certainly the best choice to pay the grant, because it is neither possible nor appropriate to try to describe 100% of all exceptional cases in law. In the draft, we have offered some criteria, but ultimately the educational institution is closest to the student and can best approach possible exceptional cases. The institutions also have experience and established practice of paying this type of education allowance in connection with the payment of existing economic support in an earlier system. So universities have the ability and the ability to manage this system. We have estimated 500 students per year to receive specific needs-based support. In comparison, at present, more than 3,000 students have received needs-based education support from registers. We're talking about 500 students who would be added because of the change. The cost of such a system or bonus would be indicative at the peak of EUR 700000. Based on the actual situation, the number of beneficiaries and the budget of the grant can be increased or reduced. You can see how this system starts. The majority of beneficiaries of special support could apply for regular needs-based education support already in the next semester. For example, if a student applies for education allowance during the spring semester but the system does not yet reflect new family income data, they are already reflected in the next semester when he or she applies for the allowance, so that the student can receive regular needs-based learning support through the usual electronic system. We have planned EUR 135 for the special allowance. We believe that this should be the average of the different rates of current needs-based learning support, it should not be differentiated, because we also need to ensure that the administration of the system does not become too difficult for higher education institutions. If they were to assess the family's income with euro precision, it would certainly be a significant additional job. So much for needs-based specific support. The second part of this draft concerns the general logic of the payment of study grants. While it was foreseen at the time of the adoption of the Act that the criterion for both the exemption from tuition fees and the need-based grant is to complete the course of study, in practice we have seen that the study load requirement could be 75%, which is also the definition of full-time in the University Act. We should not allow a situation where, due to his or her more complex socio-economic background, a student, for example, misses a point in a few semesters and therefore automatically loses the need-based education allowance. If we take into account that in this case, however, we are talking about students whose family income is very low, then it is clear that the loss of need-based education support may mean that they have to stop their studies, which certainly cannot be considered positive. If you look at the data from this spring for the autumn semester of last year, the students with a study load between 75 and 99% were around 450. Speaking of the full implementation of the needs-based learning support system, we can talk about reducing the burden on needs-based specific support and education support, so that some 2 000 students receive additional needs-based learning support either by one channel or another. The money is planned enough for this in the Ministry of Education's budget. Given the decrease in the number of students in the coming years, it is clear that we will come up with the money already agreed and, at the same time, we will be able to make the needs-based learning support system more flexible, which will ensure that all those in need receive help, and we can make it more student-friendly in general. Thank you and I will be happy to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U136	Questions for the waitress. Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U137	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I want to clarify one thing that has been understood in different ways. You said that the need-based support was determined on the basis of the income tax return of the previous year. The student starts to study on 1 September 2014. Are we talking about the income tax return that he submitted in March 2014, that is, the 2013 service, or the income tax return he submitted last year, March 2013, in which case we are talking about the 2012 service, which would be one year and nine months apart from starting to study? Which one is it? There's been a lot of different ideas here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U138	Thank you. In September 2014, the latest available data is used, i.e. income data for 2013, i.e. income tax returns, which have been submitted in March 2014. However, in the spring semester, if the study allowance is applied for either in January or February, there may be a situation where the data are more than one year old. For example, the declarations of January or February 2014 have not yet been submitted. In this case, we are talking about family income data that are over a year old.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U139	Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U140	Thank you very much. Good minister! When this bill came to our attention, the university feedback was a little pessimistic. They did not want to share this additional type of support themselves, for obvious reasons. Have you been talking to each other lately? Have their views changed? As you mentioned yourself, they have additional resources for administration.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U141	Thank you very much. When we started working on this draft in spring, I met with the Council of Rectors and the principles of the bill were negotiated at the time. Indeed, in the formal coordination process, the three universities did not coordinate this draft. It is understandable that all parties would like someone else to be involved in the administration work. It's not too pleasant a job. It certainly requires universities to lay down specific conditions and procedures, to deal with students, to say yes and no, etc. Of course it's an extra burden. However, having negotiated with other parties as well, we were unable to provide a better system. Universities are, in my opinion, the most appropriate institution to deal with this division. Indeed, as has been pointed out in the question, we see not only support for our universities but also a 10% administrative cost, so that administration does not come at the expense of universities' general resources. Once again, however, universities do have a practice of paying special economic support received in the old system, which may mean that there is nothing so-called 'articulously new' and there is nothing going too far in this system. But on the other hand, I realize that the universities would rather say that someone else would. But we've been communicating, and I think there is a broad understanding that this is the optimal solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U142	Barbi Pilvre, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U143	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You said that needs-based learning support can also be applied for using smart devices, which is undoubtedly well-fashioned. Do you not see a contradiction here: smart devices, which cost quite a lot, and need-based learning support?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U144	Thank you. It doesn't have to be done with a smart device, but there's a chance. After all, needs-based learning support also enables those who want to acquire a smart device, but I expect that this money will usually cover much more urgent costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U145	Mart Meri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U146	Thank you. Good minister! The concerns of universities in pushing and thinking about the administrative burden of universities in particular: can you appreciate how many applicants for special support might be?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U147	Thank you. It is difficult to say this precisely because life is really quite written. There are two aspects to the assessment of possible specific cases: this target group, which has so far received this special economic support in the old system, plus those people who have applied for needs-based learning support on the basis of registers, but are under a line. Some of them have fallen under the line because, in the meantime, his economic situation has deteriorated, but this is not reflected in the registers, or because his real family does not comply with the definition of family as defined by law. We have estimated that in the spring semester of 2015, there are those who could apply for this support, 330 and 500 of the autumn semester of 2015. The increase is due to the fact that the so-called last year of qualifying for the needs-based education allowance will enter higher education in the autumn. So the full volume could be about 500 support per semester. But how many of these recipients will be, it's hard to predict. As I said, we are flexible on this issue. Depending on what the reality is, we can allocate more or less resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U148	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U149	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Didn't you think about the quality of learning when you reduced the volume of the curriculum from 100% to 75%? Doesn't that give you a setback?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U150	Thank you. I am generally of the opinion that students should be required to complete the curriculum on the basis of free study opportunities. Currently, 100% of the curriculum needs to be completed in order to be able to study in Estonia free of tuition fees on the basis of the Estonian language curriculum. True, most universities have forgiven some amount of credits. It is precisely so that students do not have to interrupt their studies if, for some reason, a credit is lost. In my opinion, the quality of learning and, above all, the effectiveness of "graduation" should be regulated in this particular place, looking at the percentage for which tuition fees are charged and the percentage beyond which learning is free of charge. Learning support, especially needs-based, could be more flexible, because we are still talking about students who have a very difficult economic situation. These are students whose family income per household member is less than 300 euros per month. If, for some reason, one credit point is missed, we automatically deprive them of their education allowance. Given the poor economic condition of these students, I think for a lot of people, this means losing their studies. That certainly cannot be our goal. On the other hand, we are not losing the requirement to fill the study load. The 75% requirement, however, means that a student studies full-time, is not so that he is just at university.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U151	There are no further questions for the Minister. The rapporteur of the Commission is Mart Meri, member of the Committee on Culture. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U152	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Culture discussed draft 728 at its meeting on 6 October. The draft was presented in the Commission by Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Education and Science, and by Kaur Kittus, lawyer of the Ministry's Legal Department. As the Minister has just explained here in the utmost detail, the aim of the draft is to introduce a new type of study grants, a specific grant based on needs, and to make the application for needs-based learning support more flexible. The need for change is due to the inadequacies in the school grant system that came into effect last year, which has led to the loss of a number of students who would, in essence, be entitled to it. The Committee on Culture has also received letters of formal notice. At the time of the new system of study grants two years ago, student representative organisations requested the flexibility that is now largely foreseen in the draft. The members of the Commission did not question the need for amendments. Questions were raised concerning the process of applying for specific support and examining applications. For example, they asked why the university could not be allocated a fund that the university could distribute under conditions that it had set itself. The answer was that the new regulation aims to highlight the target group whose application for normal needs-based support has been rejected on the basis of the current provisions of the law, although in essence it would be justified to receive the support. It was also asked that if the student knows that he does not receive normal support, why does he still have to go through this so-called first round to receive the special allowance, knowing that the answer will be no. The Minister replied that, on the basis of statistics, very many people do not know whether or not they are entitled to normal register-based support. In order not to unduly increase the administrative burden on universities, i.e. the number of decision-making decisions, it is appropriate to consider the application mechanism for standard support as a primary filter for the identification of students entitled to special support. The Commission also had an exchange of views on another important amendment to the draft. Currently, 100% completion of the curriculum is a prerequisite for obtaining needs-based student support, i.e. if some credits are lost, the student will not be able to receive support. The draft will make it more flexible and in the future, all students who study full-time, i.e. fulfilling at least 75% of the curriculum on a cumulative basis, will receive student support. The Commission was also talking about whether this would not make the quality of learning worse. The Minister thought, as he said here, that if the study grant system became more flexible, the requirements for completing the curriculum in universities would hopefully become stricter again. The Commission's procedural decisions were all consensual: it was decided to propose that the draft 728 be placed on the plenary agenda by 15 October, to appoint a rapporteur here, to propose that the first reading be closed to the General Assembly and to set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 29 October. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U153	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. I'm opening negotiations. Jaak Allik, please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U154	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to present once again the issue of study grants at the Riigikogu session. I did so already on 5 June 2012 and 12 December 2013. In fact, I could read the speeches back then, but I'm just saying that in the long run, even a drop of hard rock will pierce. Everything that we are discussing today's government bill, I have already spoken about. These are, in fact, proposals of the Association of Estonian Student Unions, which the current Minister of Education has listened to and formulated for law. From the outset, it was clear that students with low incomes in their families and who cannot rely heavily on parental support are entitled to need-based education support, so they cannot give up working alongside their studies. If they were to be required to complete 100% of their curriculum, otherwise depriving them of support, this would essentially mean rejecting them from higher education. I'm glad that's understood. The same is true of specific needs-based support, which helps to regulate all specific cases in an operational manner. From the beginning, it was strange that, leaving this possibility for students who started their studies before 2013, this option was taken from young people who had taken up education free of charge under the new regime. I am very pleased that Minister Jevgeni Ossinovski has found a common language with the Association of Estonian Students and has also entered into constructive dialogue with difficult partners in some respects, such as the Association of Estonian Rural Governments and the Association of Estonian Cities. Politics is always a search for compromises between wishes and opportunities. It seems that progress is being made on the right track in the educational landscape. The Social Democratic Party supports the proposed draft and calls on all colleagues to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U155	There's no more calls. Honourable Riigikogu, the commission has proposed to finish the first reading of draft 728. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 728 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 29 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U156	The next item is the draft Act amending the Social Tax Act and the Health Insurance Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 729. The initiator's waitress is Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Education and Science. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U157	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will introduce the draft Act amending the Social Tax Act and the Health Insurance Act initiated by the Government, which aims to ensure that doctoral students have no social guarantees so far. The subject is important. There is now a broader debate on research funding and improving and sustainability of research quality, and we are looking for and finding additional resources here. Certainly, however, it is also important to ensure the attractiveness of a research career. One part of this is the effectiveness of doctoral studies and the attractiveness of this study in career choices. It has to be said that the Estonian state guarantees doctoral grants for accredited students, or rather most of them. It amounts to 383 euros and 47 cents per month. This amount has not changed since 2005, which has led to the fact that the doctoral student allowance now represents a significantly lower proportion of the average salary. If in 2005 it was about 70% of the average wage, now we are talking about an amount close to the minimum wage. It is certainly important to increase doctoral student support in the long term. From 1 January next year, the doctoral student allowance will be increased by 10%, i.e. EUR 422, according to the State Budget Act of the following year, the draft of which has already reached the Riigikogu proceedings. The main content of the draft is to ensure social guarantees for doctoral students in order to make doctoral studies a more attractive career choice. Under the current laws, doctoral students are guaranteed only health insurance as students. If the draft Act enters into force, the state doctoral grant will also be taken into account when calculating the parental benefit and pension. In order to be able to do so, we have planned to amend the Social Tax Act so that the state would pay social tax on the doctoral student allowance and, for example, when the doctoral student has a child, the amount of the doctoral student allowance will be taken into account when calculating the amount of parental benefit. Most doctoral students work alongside doctoral studies. The reason for this is the insufficient amount of doctoral student support for adults. In practice, this means that if a working doctoral student receives a child and is on academic leave, the amount of the doctoral allowance is not taken into account when calculating the amount of parental benefit. This, in turn, means that the real income of a doctoral student decreases when you have a child. This is in principle contrary to the broader logic of parental benefit, according to which a person's current income should be maintained after having a child. The number of doctoral students on parental leave has remained more or less the same in recent years. 2013/14. In the academic year, 10% of doctoral students, or around 300 people, were on academic leave in connection with the care of the child, of whom 78% were women. Additional resources are needed to implement this fundamental and substantial change. From next year's state budget, 1.3 million euros will be planned for this, and the cost of this change will be 3.8 million euros by 2016. The amount includes an increase of 10% in the doctoral student allowance from 1 January of the following year. The payment of social security contributions from the doctoral allowance will start on 1 September 2015, so that we can get all the technical solutions in order in time. As the Ministry of Education and Research pays social tax for doctoral students, it requires certain software or database development. As a result of this amendment, it is also necessary to clarify the Health Insurance Act. Its aim is to avoid a situation where the state guarantees double medical insurance cover for doctoral students receiving doctoral student benefits, both by paying social security contributions and by means of a health insurance budget guaranteeing health insurance cover for all students. Thank you. I would be happy to answer questions if they had occurred.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U158	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. The rapporteur of the Commission is Tiina Lokk-Tramberg, member of the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U159	Mr. President! Thank you, Minister, for a very meaningful presentation. Draft Act amending the Social Tax Act and the Health Insurance Act 729 was discussed by the Committee on Culture on 6 October 2014. Human languages can be called merely a draft of the social guarantees of doctoral students. Members of the Commission Eldar Efendijev, Andrus Saare, Jaak Allik, Liisa-Ly Pakosta, Mart Meri, Paul-Eerik Rummo and Tiina Lokk-Tramberg and Commission advisers Angelika Berg and Atko-Madis Tammar took part in the committee meeting. Missing Mailis Reps. Attorneys at the Legal Department of Evgeni Ossinovski and the Ministry of Education and Research Kaur Kittus and Kaire Liiv were invited. According to the draft guarantee for the social guarantees of doctoral students, the state will pay social tax on the doctoral student allowance, which will result in the doctoral student allowance being taken into account in the calculation of parental benefit and retirement. So far, no social tax was paid on the doctoral student allowance and therefore it was not taken into account when calculating the amount of parental benefit or pension contributions, for example, in the first pillar of the pension. There were not many burning questions about the draft within the Commission. I have to say that rarely have I seen drafts that have been through such a smooth and quick debate. As studies have shown that as one of the important factors hindering the promotion of doctoral studies, the insecurity of doctoral students regarding their incomes and social guarantees is seen, it was found that the draft state values doctoral studies as career choices, wants to make the career of researchers more attractive and supports young researchers. However, there were a few questions for the Minister. Of course, the question was whether and how the draft would affect the state budget. The Minister replied that in the state budget for 2015 EUR 1.4 million was planned to pay social tax on the doctoral student grant, of which EUR 0.5 million is the planned 10% increase in the doctoral student grant. We were satisfied with that answer. It was also asked whether there were other forms of remuneration that could, in the same form, be subject to social tax. The answer was that this has not been discussed in the government so far. It was further clarified whether the changes concerned health insurance. The answer was that doctoral students are students in their status and are therefore already covered by health insurance. Finally, it was decided to consensually propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 15 October, that Tiina Lokk-Tramberg be appointed rapporteur, that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 10 working days, i.e. 29 October. Thank you. I'm ready to answer questions if there are any.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U160	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thank you, Tiina Lock-Tramberg! I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The Commission's proposal is that the first reading of the draft should be completed. I will set the deadline for tabling 729 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 29 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U161	The next item is the draft Act 714 initiated by the Government of the Republic on the ratification of the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and Ukraine, of the other part. The initiator's waitress is the Foreign Minister Urmas Paet. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U162	Good afternoon, good members of the Riigikogu. This and the following two drafts are very similar in nature, which is why I am talking about the Ukraine agreement at the moment. Similar attitudes exist with regard to the agreements between Georgia and Moldova, which will be discussed under the next items on the agenda. When I talk about them, I won't go over those basic principles again. The European Union's Association Agreements, which also include free trade, are the most comprehensive and ambitious agreements of the kind that the European Union has concluded with other countries. They are crucial for all three countries This agreement was concluded with Ukraine in two parts. The political part was signed in s. on 21 March 2008 and the other parts on 27 June. If this Treaty enters into force after all the Member States of the European Union have ratified it, it will bring relations between the European Union and Ukraine to a whole new level. As I mentioned, the aim of this agreement is to help Ukraine implement reforms in the economy, public administration, law enforcement and judicial system, the fight against corruption and many other areas. Under this agreement, the European Union is assisting Ukraine in the implementation of these reforms, including the approximation of Ukrainian laws to the legal area of the European Union. To this end, there is a separate programme for implementing the Association Agreement. The enforcement of the free trade area, which is part of the Association Agreement, will, as I mentioned, ensure better access to the European Union market for Ukrainian companies and vice versa, and will also encourage investment in both directions. Ukraine itself has ratified this agreement; it did so on 16 September. Six of the countries of the European Union have now ratified this agreement: Bulgaria, Romania, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta and Slovakia. The ratification process is ongoing in many countries. To sum up, it is certainly in our interest that there should be an increase in the number of countries in Europe that share the principles of the rule of law and where these principles are firmly established. Estonia has also, as we know, always been a supporter of the principles of free trade. The entry into force of this agreement will also fulfil this objective. I'm going to finish my monologue here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U163	Questions for the proposer. Kalev Kallemets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U164	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. About six months ago, shortly after you answered the questions here, one of your phone calls leaked in public. This showed that you are far less indifferent to the events in Ukraine. Perhaps it would be more appropriate to use this agreement to speed up the peaceful process in Ukraine? At first, peace and after that ratification. Doesn't Europe now place on its shoulders that bombers and missiles are again flying towards the civilian population, leading to their deaths? Is it not precisely this counter-terrorism operation that we are supporting?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U165	First of all, once again, the ratification of this agreement by the Ukrainian Parliament and also by the Member States of the European Union will in no way undermine this military conflict. The agreement has been concluded between the European Union and Ukraine and, of course, it is very important to us what Ukraine itself thinks of its future. Secondly, if you look at the content of this agreement, there is nothing aggressive about it. This opens up a wide range of opportunities for Ukraine to develop its society and economy. Thirdly, this agreement is between the European Union and Ukraine. There is no news or surprise to anyone that the most important value of the European Union, as such, has ever been peace in Europe. We all know why the European Union was actually created after World War II. We all know, too, that no Member State of the European Union has been at war with another Member State of the European Union. If the European Union succeeds in helping those European countries that do not exist in the European Union to become as close as possible to me, then I will see here a clear element demeaning the potential of conflict, I will say it once again.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U166	Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U167	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Understandably, Ukraine, as well as Moldova and Georgia, are very important partners for us. Supporting them in their reform path towards a democratic, strong and sovereign state has been a very important priority for us in the long run. We have our own agenda to support reforms in Moldova and Georgia. A package of similar activities for Ukraine is currently being prepared. Can you tell me what kind of time frame it could be? Perhaps you can point out what are the most important places where Ukraine is waiting for advice and assistance from us after this agreement enters into force?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U168	Thank you. Our readiness to advise Ukraine in areas that need reforms that we ourselves have carried out over the years is quite high. The most effective thing is to focus on those areas where Ukraine itself wants our help. In recent months' consultations, they have mentioned two main areas: IT changes and their implementation in public administration and changes in finance and taxation. They are interested in Estonia's experience here. However, this is certainly not an exhaustive list. Ukraine has been our country of destination for development cooperation for years, and it has been this year. If I look at our budget for development cooperation, including the part that has gone to Ukraine in the context of development cooperation, in that year, humanitarian aid has also been higher for obvious reasons, then by the end of this year, about EUR 1 million has gone to help Ukraine in one way or another. I think next year this money will most likely be bigger. As far as the specific scheme is concerned, we are ready to continue the activities so far, but of course we want Ukraine itself to provide as concrete an input as possible, which aid they want and to what extent they want to receive from Estonia, which Estonian knowledge they want to use. I hope that, once the parliamentary elections are done there and the new government is in place, concrete steps can be taken to finalise this plan and finally put it in place next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U169	There are no further questions for the Foreign Minister. The Commission's rapporteur is Marko Mihkelson, Chairman of the Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U170	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu dealt with draft 714 at its meeting on 6 October. The meeting of the Commission was attended by the Minister of Foreign Affairs Urmas Paet, the Deputy Chancellor of Foreign Economic Policy and Development Cooperation at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Väino Reinart and the Director of the 3rd Bureau of Policy Department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Martin Roger. The Minister of Foreign Affairs presented the content and purpose of the Association Agreement and answered questions from the members of the Commission. In the course of the debate, the main interest was expressed in the circumstances surrounding the postponement of part of the entry into force of the Free Trade Agreement with Ukraine and the desire of the Member States of the European Union to support Ukraine's reforms. I would remind you that the Committee on Foreign Affairs has dealt with Ukraine's issues in depth several times in recent months. Of course, this committee meeting had been prepared for a long enough time, but I would also like to acknowledge the European Union Affairs Committee, which, like the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has helped to ensure that the members of the Riigikogu are as well informed as possible about the content and objectives of this agreement. The Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs organised a round table in our conference centre a few days later, on 9 October, in which representatives of Estonian state agencies and NGOs exchanged information about their activities in helping Ukraine and their opportunities to make cooperation and cooperation with representatives of Ukraine more targeted and effective. The round table discussed the possibilities for the Estonian state to carry out several projects. As Minister of Foreign Affairs Paet has already mentioned, Estonia has significantly increased aid to Ukraine this year and hopefully in next year's budget these amounts will either remain at the same level or increase. The current leaders of Ukraine have signalled that, although this agreement is likely to enter into force at the end of next year or in the first half of 2016, once ratified by all parties, despite this slight delay, Ukraine itself will start implementing the reforms envisaged or planned by the Association Agreement. I recall that six countries have now ratified the Association Agreement between the European Union and Ukraine: Ukraine, Bulgaria, Lithuania, Latvia, Malta and Romania. This has also been approved by the European Parliament. A colleague raised the issue of the situation in Ukraine. After all, the Riigikogu has made its position and position very clear, through the statements of both the Committee on Foreign Affairs and this Chamber, about everything that is going on in Ukraine and what aid we are giving to Ukraine and what support we are expressing. At the end of the debate held on 6 October, the Committee on Foreign Affairs decided to consensually propose to the Riigikogu Board that draft 714 be sent to the Riigikogu plenary for the first reading on Wednesday 15 October. Secondly, it was decided that when the first reading of the draft was completed, the Management Board of the Riigikogu would be invited to set the deadline for submitting amendments to draft law 714 on Friday 17 October at 16:00. Thirdly, it was decided that the rapporteur for the Committee on Foreign Affairs at first reading was Marko Mihkelson, the chairman of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U171	Questions for the waitress. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U172	Thank you. Good chairman of the committee! You named six countries, but they're all so small. Why have the larger countries not said a word to this day?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U173	Thank you. I do not think Romania is a very small country, but I believe, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said, that the ratification process is likely to continue in the coming months and I hope that it will be one half at the end of next year. I recall that the ratification decisions that I have read here were taken in the summer months when Parliament was on summer leave in most countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U174	Each member of the Riigikogu can put together two questions, not more. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Barbi Pilvre, please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U175	Good manager! Colleagues! Like all political forces, in recent years, the Social Democrats have lived with Ukraine and supported Ukraine's movement towards the European Union. We therefore welcome the Association Agreement between the European Union and Ukraine. Long negotiations on Ukraine's association with the European Union started seven years ago and lasted until 2011. This year, the agreement was signed and hopefully ratified, as the speaker mentioned above, by 2016 at the latest. We know everything that has taken place in Ukraine in the meantime, from the events in Maidan to the annexation of Crimea. It is all the more important to support Ukraine's approach to Europe. It is more than a treaty, it is also a message for Ukraine, recognition for the Ukrainian state and encouragement. The aim of the agreement has already been mentioned above: to speed up the deepening of political and economic relations between Ukraine and the European Union, and to step up Ukraine's access to the European Union's internal market. Strong support from the European Union is also needed in a situation where Russia's aggressive action towards Ukraine continues. The treaty regulates more than 30 areas, I looked at it from trade to space exploration. This really involves life, including the creation of a free trade area, things that are generally understood, such as tariffs or barriers to trade, the public procurement market, labour and environmental protection standards. The indirect aim is to shape a favourable business and investment climate in Ukraine and to make Ukraine eligible to join the European Union. Europe's security policy cooperation and energy security will certainly be strengthened as a result of the Association Agreement. The paragraph of the agreement on measures to facilitate the movement of workers and access to the labour market, as well as the free movement of persons and the visa dialogue, which may eventually lead to visa liberalisation for Ukraine, deserves attention. Today, Estonian citizens are known to be able to stay in Ukraine for 90 days without a visa. What will be the benefit of strengthening Estonia's links with Ukraine in particular, apart from the larger political plan? Certainly, close trade links increase the competitiveness of the European Union in the world and result in indirect benefits. More specifically, Estonia is an important trading partner for Ukraine. Estonian goods and services have a good reputation in Ukraine; Ukraine is the 20th most important among Estonia's export partners. The Association Agreement extends the opportunities for entrepreneurship and encourages them to expand in a situation such as Ukraine, where we know that many entrepreneurs have tightened up or quite stopped their activities there. Estonia is primarily interested in opportunities for cooperation in research-intensive production and industry in areas where Ukraine has developed. We also have expectations that the business and investment climate in Ukraine will become more favourable to Estonian entrepreneurs. It is good to remember that Estonia did the path that Ukraine is now facing through the 1990s. We were fortunate to do so in a more peaceful environment. But emotionally, we understand the situation in Ukraine well now. The Association Agreement is therefore an encouragement and recognition for Ukraine, more than just one agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U176	There's no more calls. The Commission's proposal is that the first reading of draft 714 should be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 4 p.m. on 17 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U177	Honourable speaker! Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, On Monday this week, there was a meeting of the European Union Affairs Committee, where Väino Reinart spoke about the forthcoming General Affairs Council. On the subject of Ukraine, we talked about the concern that Ukraine may request amendments to these agreements, as it has requested an extension of the free trade agreement. What do you think this prospect is, even though this particular draft under way does not concern free trade? Can the changes to the Free Trade Agreement affect the implementation of the Association Agreement?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U178	It still concerns free trade, because the free trade agreement is part of the Association Agreement. We can, of course, theorize all kinds of things, but it is clear that if any agreement is amended at the request of one of the parties, negotiations will begin and, if an agreement is reached, either a new agreement will be concluded or the existing agreements will be supplemented. Depending on the content of the amendment, follow-up procedures, one of which is the ratification process. But there is no real reason to talk about this today, because, as I mentioned, less than a month ago, the Ukrainian Parliament itself has ratified this agreement. I do not consider it very realistic to assume that they want to change it for some reason after ratification.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U179	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U180	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. In international relations, diplomacy has its own customs, its own long-term practices. Tell me, please, is it compatible with them that the Treaty is being ratified with a country where civil war has actually been for six months? According to the United Nations, there are 3,600 dead, which I think is just a thin crust, in fact, there may be several times as many. Even in spite of the truce, people die there every day, some days seven, some days ten. Is this the usual thing?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U181	Certainly, no war or civil war can be called a normal thing. However, Ukraine is not a civil war, but a neighbouring country of Ukraine is also directly involved in this conflict. Looking at the content of this agreement, it is clearly intended, as I mentioned, to consolidate the principles of democratic rule of law in Ukraine and to give Ukraine a whole new opportunity to its economy, providing considerably easier access to the European single market, which with its 500 million consumers is undoubtedly one of the best business and trade development environments in the world. So the enforcement of this agreement could certainly contribute to the further development of Ukraine. I dare say that if such a development is successful, it will significantly reduce the possibility of all kinds of horrors and conflicts in the future, which we are unfortunately seeing in Ukraine today. However, poverty is very often one of the starting points for all types of conflict and the fact that the rule of law and rules of the game have not developed. If we manage to change this situation, I am pretty sure that Ukraine's security will be stronger and the risks of conflicts of this kind will be reduced in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U182	Kalev Kallemets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U183	Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, A further question. In addition to direct military action and the proposal to amend this agreement in order to meet certain commercial interests of the Russian Federation, the Russian Federation also uses energy supply towards Ukraine and other measures to exert pressure. Has the activities of the Russian Federation in this agreement been considered in the European Union's sanctions policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U184	It all depends on how far back we look in history. Everything has to do with everything, I'm afraid. After all, we remember last autumn when tense events began in Ukraine. One of their direct triggers was that the Ukrainian President, then, did not sign the agreements with the European Union at the Eastern Partnership Summit in Vilnius in the autumn, even though they were ready to be signed. This caused disappointment and resentment in Ukraine. A part of Ukraine's society saw Ukraine's movement towards the further introduction of the European Union and European values at risk. This triggered a chain of further events, in which, unfortunately, Russia intervened directly in the military. These events have escalated over the past year. Hopes and expectations associated with this agreement and their failure last autumn will certainly play a role in future events. It is also clear that Russia clearly increased its pressure on Ukraine immediately after it was clear that Ukraine was essentially prepared to sign the Association Agreement with the European Union and thereby take a long step towards the European Union. It is clear that this development did not coincide with Russia's plans. Before military intervention, both economic and political means of pressure were used.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U185	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U186	Thank you, manager. Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, The European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community are on one side of the Agreement. Why is the European Atomic Energy Community a partner here? Why is he being pulled out separately?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U187	Some of the provisions concern this organisation. This organisation shall be in close cooperation with the European Union. The title must be as precise as possible and must reflect the content of the document. This organisation is therefore mentioned in the title.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U188	Mart Meri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U189	Thank you. Mr. Minister! Undoubtedly, the entry into force of this agreement will contribute to the development and, hopefully, to the strengthening of an independent Ukraine. The time factor here is pretty important. Can you appreciate how long the ratification process could take in the Member States of the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U190	This is a pure assessment and is based on certain national opinions. I appreciate that this agreement could be ratified by the second half of next year in all the Member States of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U191	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U192	The next item is the first reading of draft Act 705 on the ratification of the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and Georgia, of the other part, initiated by the Government of the Republic. The initiators' waitress is the Foreign Minister Urmas Paet. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U193	This is another similar draft ratification of the Treaty, but this agreement will be concluded with Georgia. All the principles in this agreement are the same as in the agreement with Ukraine at first reading. The agreement with Georgia was also signed by the European Union and Georgia. a on 27 June 2008. The main objectives are all the same: Georgia must also uphold the principles of the rule of law and democracy and gain access to the European Union's common market and the European Union's market in Georgia. Like the agreement with Ukraine, six Member States of the European Union have ratified the agreement with Georgia today. I talked about the main attitudes when I introduced the agreement with Ukraine. If there's any questions, I'll answer them.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U194	Margus Hanson has a question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U195	Thank you. The Association Agreement will, of course, enter into force once it has been ratified by the parties, but the free trade agreement is part of this agreement, and it will, of course, take time for the free trade zone to develop. There's probably some sort of transition period here. How long could it be?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U196	The agreement will enter into force as soon as it has been ratified by all 28 Member States of the European Union and Georgia. In fact, this transition is already underway, because the Treaty has been signed and the ratification process is taking place. In the case of Georgia, the only question mark is that there are two regions in Georgia's territory, South Ossetia and Abkhazia, which the central authority does not really control. Yes, in these cases, the European Commission has offered a transitional period of 2.5 years. Since it is clear that the implementation of this agreement is likely to be complicated in these areas, a transitional period has been proposed for them. But in other respects, the Treaty will still enter into force in full once it has been ratified everywhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U197	No further questions. The minister can sit down. The rapporteur for the Commission is Margus Hanson, member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U198	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, The draft proposal 705 was also discussed by the Committee on Foreign Affairs at its meeting on 6 October. Foreign Minister Urmas Paet, Deputy Chancellor of Foreign Economic Policy and Development Cooperation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Väino Reinart and Director of the 3rd Bureau of Policy Department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Martin Roger participated in this discussion. Since all the draft ratification laws we are discussing here today were on the table at the same time, of course most of the issues concerned Ukraine. There were only a few questions about the agreement with Georgia and they were more about Georgia's territorial integrity. The Committee on Foreign Affairs decided to consensually propose to the Riigikogu Board that draft 705 be taken to the first reading of the Riigikogu in plenary on Wednesday 15 October, and when the first reading of the draft is completed, we have a proposal to the Riigikogu Board to set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 17 October at 16:00. The rapporteur for the Committee on Foreign Affairs was appointed here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U199	No questions for the waitress. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The Commission's proposal is that the first reading of draft 705 should be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 4 p.m. on 17 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U200	The first reading of the draft Act on the ratification of the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Moldova, of the other part, initiated by the Government of the Republic, begins. The initiator's waitress is the Foreign Minister Urmas Paet. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U201	This is the third similar agreement, i.e. an association agreement, which also includes free trade, in this case free trade between the European Union and Moldova. The objectives of the agreement are exactly the same as those of the agreements dealt with here by Ukraine and Georgia. This agreement was also concluded on 27 June. a. Moldova ratified this agreement at the beginning of July this year, and six Member States of the European Union have done the same. The aim is the same: strengthening the rule of law, democratic reforms and access to the European Union's common market. To conclude with all these draft ratification decisions, I would like to stress that, from a strictly legal perspective, it would have been enough in Estonia if we had approved them by decision of the government. However, given the very important significance of these processes for Europe as a whole, including, of course, those countries, we consider it important that ratification takes place in Parliament, which gives it more visible and meaningful weight both within the Estonian state and outside the Estonian state. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U202	No questions for the waitress. Thank you, Minister. Enn Eesmaa, Vice-President of the Commission, shall report on behalf of the Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U203	The Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed the Association Agreement between the European Union, the European Atomic Energy Community and the Republic of Moldova at its meeting on 6 October. We were explained by the Minister of Foreign Affairs Urmas Paet, Deputy Chancellor Väino Reinart and the Director of Office 3 Martin Roger. As a result of the discussion, we adopted a proposal that we submitted to the Board of Riigikogu: to send draft 706 for the first reading of the Riigikogu plenary session on today, 15 October and, if the first reading is closed, to propose to the Riigikogu board that the deadline for the submission of draft amendments to the bill 706 be set at 16:00 on Friday, 17 October. The rapporteur for the Committee on Foreign Affairs is standing before you. As the Minister has already said, in addition to Moldova, Bulgaria, Lithuania, Latvia, Malta, Slovakia and Romania have completed their ratification work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U204	No questions for the waitress. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The Commission's proposal is that the first reading of draft 706 should be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 4 p.m. on 17 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U205	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the State Death Allowance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The initiator's waitress is Helmen Kütt, Minister of Social Protection. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U206	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased to introduce to you at first reading the draft law amending the National Death Allowance Act 726, to give you a brief overview of the draft and what will change from 1 January 2015. The payment of public funeral allowance to natural persons was abolished in 2009 due to the savings in public funds resulting from the economic crisis. Local authorities continued to receive support to compensate for the costs of burying an unknown or unconventional deceased. The state budget is entitled to funeral allowance if the municipality or city government bears the cost of organising the funeral. However, the purpose of the draft law is also to support economically vulnerable persons by restoring the payment of public funeral allowance. However, the payment of funeral allowance is not restored to everyone, but only to those who belong to families receiving income support within the meaning of the Social Welfare Act, they are also families living below the subsistence threshold. Thus, the draft provides that the funeral allowance will only be paid to those who are unable to bear or who find it difficult to bear the cost of organising the funeral due to the economic situation. The low level of insurance is established on the basis of income support. As regards the funeral allowance paid to the municipality and city government, the draft law does not make any other changes if the amount of the allowance is changed. If, at present, the amount of the funeral allowance that local authorities can apply for is EUR 191,74, the draft would amount to EUR 250 from 1 January 2015. This would ensure that the basic costs for both municipalities and the vulnerable would be covered. What else can I say? The system remains the same, there will be no additional costs, as local authorities will be able to transmit information very quickly via STAR. The Social Insurance Institution will pay out the funeral allowance. It is estimated that there may be about 1,200 families or people who have to bear funeral expenses. Municipalities, as also stated in the explanatory memorandum, applied for funeral allowance to bury unfamiliar persons a little more than 300 times. These costs, which are necessary for changing both STAR and certain IT solutions, are EUR 31000 and will be covered by the budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs. That is, in short, everything about the draft. I'd be happy to answer the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U207	Please, Tarmo Tamm, a question for the waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U208	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. I do not understand who can apply for this support. A funeral organizer can also be a municipality or city government. The municipality and city administration, however, do not have the possibility to receive income support. Is there no way they're gonna get that support? Or is it based on whether the deceased received this support?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U209	On the contrary. In the meantime, there is a procedure for municipal and municipal authorities to apply for this support. Even after the loss of this support by natural persons due to the economic crisis in 2009, legal persons, or municipalities, could continue to apply for it. They have been able to apply for it to this day and will continue to do so. If the municipal and municipal authorities so far applied for support, this amount was 191 euros and 74 cents. Now they will also have 250 euros, just like natural persons who have completed the income support in the previous 12 months. Local governments, as I reported, will only change the amount of money. That's going to increase.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U210	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U211	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good madam minister! People are rich and poor, but after death, we're all equal. You can put a cell phone in someone's casket, but he won't call back. Tell me, please, what's going to happen to the madman if you pay everyone equally for the funeral allowance? It is not likely to be difficult to calculate this amount, as the number of deaths per year is known and 250 euros are also known. How bad would it put a bang on the state budget if the funeral allowance were paid to the loved ones of all the dead people?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U212	Thank you, Honourable Asker. I also think there are no pockets on the last shirt, the coffin, and if someone gets a cell phone, it's hardly gonna work. My personal position (this is not my position as Minister for Social Protection) is that funeral allowance is a state subsidy for loved ones who bear funeral expenses, and its payment should be similar to the payment of birth allowance. At the moment, however, the possibilities of the state budget are such that we can only restore this support to vulnerable families. Obviously, the next budget negotiations will have to consider whether or not to extend the range of beneficiaries of this support. In the current situation, where child benefits and need-based family benefits are rising from 1 January, school meals will be offered free of charge in upper secondary school, and there are still very - very much more planned, for example, the next draft, which I will introduce, will deal with the increase in the basic allowance for children living in care and custody families, the Government of the Republic will be able to submit such a draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U213	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U214	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. We certainly very much support the restoration of this support, but are we aware of this very spooky statistics? In fact, people often give up the funeral of their relative and leave it to the Social Welfare Department. The feedback from social welfare departments has been very often this way. Have there been any statistics on the recent increase in the burden on the social welfare departments of local governments?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U215	Thank you for your question. In fact, it is also the case that if the municipality applies for funeral allowance, the Social Insurance Board will check whether the deceased has relatives and close relatives. Local governments also check in advance whether there are close people in the register. If there are any loved ones, they will definitely be contacted first. If, for some reason, the loved ones are unable to organise a funeral, the municipalities have indeed buried those persons who, although not unfamiliarly, cannot say that they have no relatives, but whose loved ones are not capable of doing so. However, the Social Insurance Institution does not pay public support for this, i.e. the municipality cannot ask the state to pay for funeral expenses for persons who have loved ones. However, local governments, for example by providing statistics and reports on the payment of grants, also point out that a large number of municipalities are still supporting their own. They do not receive public support for this, but they specifically support these people: their relatives bear part of the costs and the municipality supports their part. But the municipality cannot apply for state support for funerals for people who have close relatives.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U216	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U217	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. You've worked in the municipality for a long time, and now you're in the ministry. Shouldn't local governments really be dealing with this issue? Is this really supposed to be a state mission? It could be delegated to municipalities, it should be agreed with local governments and given them money to do so. Why would the state deal with this? The same is true of the remuneration of sports school trainers. This should be the responsibility of the municipalities. Why should the Minister of Social Affairs deal with funeral grants?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U218	Thank you. We are talking about the restoration of the funeral allowance, which was also previously the grant paid by the State. As we have written in the draft explanatory memorandum, there are two options. Firstly, it is done through the Social Insurance Board. The second option was to give the administration of the funeral allowance to local authorities, as local authorities are already working to identify and pay subsistence allowances to vulnerable persons. However, this was abandoned because there is a working scheme for the administration of the funeral allowance at the Social Insurance Board. The data on receiving income support can be found easily in the social services and benefits data register. If this support were distributed through municipalities, the administrative costs would undoubtedly be considerably higher.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U219	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U220	I will continue on the same subject that my colleague has just asked about. In fact, parallel structures will be created to deal with this system. According to your words, someone should check people's incomes. This is currently being dealt with by the local government. Why is this task really not left to the local government?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U221	Thank you. If you understand that, I'll explain it one more time. At present, the Estonian state pays funeral allowance, just as it was before the economic downturn. However, it shall pay only on the basis of requests from cities or municipalities if they have buried unfamiliar or unknown persons. Sometimes it happens that an unknown person is found who cannot be identified, and the municipality on whose territory he was found is also laying down the soil. The system under which the allowance is paid is available at the Social Insurance Board. There's data and a computer network. In S.T.T.A.R., National Registry, data on income support formatters are available. The municipality does not have any additional obligations, but sees these data from the existing computer network, and then the person turns to the Social Insurance Board, where he or she completes the application for support.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U222	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U223	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good madam minister! Please tell me, since when has the funeral allowance been EUR 191? How long has he remained at this level, and how have prices generally increased in that time? Now it's going to be 250 euros.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U224	The funeral allowance was terminated in 2009, at which time it amounted to EUR 191,74. From 1 January, this contribution will rise to EUR 250. You might be interested in what you get for the money. I have asked several funeral homes and crematoriums in Tartu and Tallinn. The average casket, a fabric-coated coffin, costs €120-130. You can order a plate or buy a cross. The costs of the crematorium start at EUR 225, but they are accompanied by lift and other services, with a cost of around EUR 260. There's gotta be some help with the support. It is currently intended for uninsured families - those who have received income support. However, this amount will help them, and it will certainly be a relief for the municipalities as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U225	Thank you. There are no further questions for the Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U226	Thank you! Please support the bill!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U227	The rapporteur for the Commission is Etti Kagarov. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U228	Good President of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft Act amending the State Death Allowance Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 726 before being sent to first reading at its meeting on 9 October. Helmen Kütt, Minister of Social Protection, gave an overview of the draft law and answered the questions. The Minister of the contents of the draft has already introduced it here; I am not going to talk it over. The amount of the funeral allowance is now EUR 250. At the Commission meeting, questions were asked about the amount of the subsidy and the costs it would cover. That's what Helmen Hunter told us right now. It was also a question of data exchange. Information on receiving income support can be obtained from the Social Services and Support Data Register STAR. The Social Insurance Institution is given access to it for the administration of the funeral allowance. The Social Affairs Committee decided to send the draft law amending the National Death Allowance Act to its first reading by 15 October with a proposal to finish the first reading. The Commission proposes to set 10 working days for the submission of amendments. The rapporteur for the Commission was appointed here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U229	There are no questions. Thank you, Etti Kagarov! I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, Margus Tsahkna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U230	Mr President, I would like to thank you once again for your understanding in Question Time. But on behalf of the IRL Group, I would like to say a few thoughts on the draft law on the restoration of funeral support. The abolition of funeral support during the economic crisis was one of the steps to save the state's costs. At the time, funeral allowance was paid to all people regardless of their social and economic livelihood. The Committee on Social Affairs has dealt with this issue repeatedly over the last three and a half years. There has been a consensus that funeral support should be restored, but precisely for those people who need it most. On behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, I would like to congratulate the initiators and the government that they have come to this Chamber with this draft. I hope that the procedure will take place here quickly and in a high-quality manner and that funeral support will be restored. In this draft we like precisely the fact that budgetary sums are not simply added to some lines, but that the government also envisages the creation of an IT solution. Perhaps in the future, using this solution, it will be possible to ensure that another country's help also reaches the people. This bill, as we look at it, is welcome in any case. The IRL Group supports this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U231	Viktor Vassilyev, please, on behalf of the Central Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U232	Thank you. I'm gonna ask you for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U233	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U234	Good people! The subject is that it is sad to talk about it, and maybe a member of the Riigikogu will also have a miscarriage, because we, ladies and gentlemen, will not have problems with funerals. We even have a hundred funeral places at the Forest Cemetery. Personally, I do not need this place because, despite all the respect I have for my colleagues, I have to say that I see them quite enough every day and I do not want them, I'm sorry, they're at the cemetery next to me, just as I do not want them in my wife's bed. But as far as the funeral allowance is concerned, yes, since 2000 it existed because it was required by the Council of Europe as a social security code and demanded the principles of the European Union. However, in 2009 it was lost on the grounds that money was not enough. You know, 15,000 people die a year in Estonia or a little more. I guess I'm not wrong if I think most of them are buried. EUR 15000 × EUR 250 shall be EUR 350000. Around EUR 350000 is also paid to maintain two ministerial posts. These are the places that created the ruling coalition. On one note, there are two living ministers, the other 15,000 dead Estonians. So to say that there isn't enough money for everyone to pay the funeral allowance, it's not appropriate. Yeah, we're all gonna die, and we're all gonna have to be buried. Indeed, neither of us are richer than others after death. Even if the family is well-off, there is nowhere to be taken from the funeral allowance when the family's fooder dies. You can't get it off a bank account. This EUR 250 really is quite a small part of all costs, so the cheapest basic service can be partly recovered, i.e. either cremation or really only coffin and cross. But if you do more or less a polite funeral, still a crematorium service, a speaker, a cross or a tomb board, and also a small one, with such rather modest ones, you know where there's broth, pie and chop with sauerkraut, a drop of vodka, and transport yet, then or less than a thousand euros will not come out in any way. I say it would be polite if the state still paid the funeral allowance for the death of all people. After all, most of the deceased are quite elderly people. Yeah, it used to be a habit that an old man always had coffin money set aside. Nowadays, if it is, it's back on the bank account, and there's no way to get it. So the relatives are gonna put together the money, or somebody's gonna take a SMS loan. Indeed, there have been cases when relatives have left the lost municipality to be buried. It's extremely sad and unborn, but it's not the people's fault. I recently spoke to an old lady who is, thank God, more or less healthy, even though she's 95 years old. Like all decent old people, 20 years ago, he had a small supply of salt, sugar, and soap and a couple of crumpleds in the corner and, of course, he had a coffin set aside. But then came the time of the depression. She may still have soap and salt right now, but she gave the coffin money to her son, who was in financial trouble. And the lady doesn't have all the funeral money anymore. He said to me, "You know, Viktor, I'm gonna live up to the end of the world now, don't die because I don't have any funeral money. ' I'm kidding, but it's like a lot of people don't even have funeral money. When we talk about older people, you can't say that their pension is ridiculous, it's crying. The wages of these children are very small, and they have no savings. After all, with their work, older people have built up everything that we have privatized, stolen, sold, pawned, paid for, put back into business, and prospered. It's all thanks to your mama's hard work! These people deserve to be honored and given to them by the state, even if only because of its last respect for death. When we talk about need-based and non-need-based support, what could be more need-based than the need to be buried like a human being. You know, a few days ago, there was a meeting of the Social Affairs Committee that said there wasn't enough money left for disabled people's aids. A representative of the Ministry said that these people do not need all these tools, that there are essential and not particularly necessary tools. Well, come on, is it the logic that one crutch is essential to you, but without the other, you can do it by holding on to the wall?! Then I'll ask what's necessary. After all, it may be decided that not all medicines are essential. Yeah, we'll give you the pain pill, but the antibiotic won't, because he might be able to do it without it. But is a pension even necessary? Maybe there are people with some kind of land or other income. Let's not pay them a pension! You know what? On this logic, I would say that I should see if the authors of this bill should be paid. Their pay could be needs-based, and maybe some people will live without pay. If power does not respect the people, those who live here, laws are passed against the majority of the Estonian people, and there is no interest in what is necessary for the people and what is not, if power separates itself from the people, it is not good for anywhere. This EUR 350000 could be found, funeral allowance should not be needs-based, but should be the last respect for people who have lived here, in this country, suffered hardships, rejoiced with us, were happy, sometimes unhappy. They have lived here, in this land, given us life, and we live on, remembering them. Let us honor, if not the living, at least the dead! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U235	Before I conclude the negotiations, I suggest that the Centre Party Group multiply the figures again by 250 and 15 000. Thank you. The negotiations are over. The Commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 726 should be completed. There are no other proposals. The deadline for submitting amendments is set at 5.15 p.m. on 29 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U236	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the State Family Benefits Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The initiators' waitress is Helmen Kütt, Minister of Social Protection. If the minister wants to say anything more, he can do it from this speaker, we can't stop it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U237	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I would like to say that, for the sake of the report, 15244 people really died in 2013. If we multiply it by 250, it's almost $5 million, not $300,000, as the previous speaker said. I would like to thank the IRL very much for the support and the understanding in the Committee on Social Affairs that doing something is certainly better than doing nothing. I will also say that there was a ministerial seat in the Ministry of Social Affairs before perhaps only one more appeared, but do not forget that one ministerial seat also decreased. Five million I and Urmas Kruus can't take advantage of or plan to. But I also have to say with sadness that not only are older people leaving us, but younger ones are also leaving us. I do not think it is right, therefore, to go to the trouble of a grandmother or to the issue of an old man, but that is the case with every speaker. I would like to introduce you to the draft 727 on the amendment of the State Family Benefits Act. This draft provides for an increase in the allowance of 240 euros per month for children in custody or family care. Under the current State Family Benefits Act, 20 times the amount of child benefit is paid to the child in custody or custody of the family. This amount was and will be 191 euros and 80 cents until the end of this year. According to the draft, from 1 January 2015, the allowance for a child in custody or family care will rise by EUR 48 by 20 cents per month. The allowance for a child in custody or family care is monthly allowance for the child and is paid to the child who has been assigned a guardian or who has been the subject of a family care contract. The allowance for a child in custody is not a family allowance in the classic sense, but is intended specifically for children who are not raised by their parent. With this support, the State covers, to a large extent, the maintenance costs of the child in custody or in the care family. As a result, this allowance is also higher than the monthly child benefit. However, given that universal child benefits are also rising, together with this allowance and the supplement of EUR 45, the care or guardianship family will receive EUR 285 per month. In 2013, the University of Tartu's Centre for Applied Social Sciences carried out an analysis of the methodology for calculating the cost of caring for the child. This showed that regardless of the age and area of residence of the child, an estimated EUR 280 per child is the amount necessary to cover the costs. We must also not forget that children who are either in guardianship or in family care often need the help of a logopaedic, psychologist, psychiatrist or other specialist, because the fact that they are separated from their biological family has certainly left a mark on them. The draft before you is intended for 2000 children, as in 2013 such support was paid to the child in 2010. However, the bill should also simplify if a child who has not yet been sent to a substitute home (the old term orphanage) is looking for a family ready to take him or her up. Growing up in a family will certainly have better results than growing up in a substitute home; it is simply possible to pay more attention to the child. The substitute homes are doing a great job, so there's nothing wrong with it. New replacement homes that are being built all over Estonia provide care and love for children. But the government hopes that the bill will help to ensure that the child does not have to go to a substitute home, but is found in a family that takes the child. The national budget has a budget of EUR 1.2 million for these expenditures. This contribution has been EUR 191,80 since 2008, an increase of 25% and an increase of EUR 2400. I'm sorry, 240 euros! I am just very upset and excited by the debate on the previous draft. So EUR 240 is the new amount of aid. Thank you. I'll answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U238	Thank you. Any questions for the Minister? No, it's not.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U239	No one dares ask.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U240	The rapporteur of the Social Committee is Margus Tsahkna, Vice-President of the Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U241	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good coworkers! The Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft law amending the State Family Benefits Act initiated by the Government at its meeting on 9 October. Minister of Social Protection Helmen Kütt and officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs participated in the meeting. Minister of Social Security Helmen Kütt gave an overview of the bill, as he did in this Chamber. During the Commission's debate, the topic of child bounty in replacement homes rose. Over the last three years, the Committee on Social Affairs has repeatedly discussed the topic of replacement homes more widely with the workers of substitute homes. I agree with Minister for Social Protection Helmen Hunt that, ideally, children should grow in their families and those children who cannot grow in their families must be able to find the best solution, or replacement family, as soon as possible. At the same time, we will be able to see that we will not be able to give up the substitute home service in any way in the future. This is needed even for children who may need more active and professional rehabilitation to prepare for replacement family service. I was pleased to hear the promises made by the Ministry of Social Affairs at the Commission meeting that it was preparing a so-called Green Paper on replacement home services. Studies have been carried out and these solutions allowed to come to the Social Affairs Committee and hopefully to the Chamber of the Riigikogu. The problem is that, using European and national funds, we have built new replacement homes and renovated old ones, but the substitute home workers' association has repeatedly stated that since the replacement home's main funding system does not specifically provide for, for example, a wage component, it is economically impossible to maintain new houses with fewer children and more space. We are likely to see social campaigns this winter to raise money, not to support the education and development of children living in substitute homes, but to pay the heating bills for these new buildings. I am pleased that it is precisely the government that is working to find a solution to these problems. The Committee on Social Affairs unanimously supported the draft which provides for an increase in the sum of children living in the family to EUR 240. This is a vital step, as the bounty of children growing in a replacement family has slipped into the way of time. These children must be given the best opportunities for development. The Commission unanimously took the following decisions: we proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 15 October and that the first reading be closed, and we also proposed that the deadline for submitting amendments be set by the law at 10 working days, i.e. the deadline of 29 October at 5.15 p.m. Margus Tsahkna, vice-president of the Commission, was appointed rapporteur for the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U242	Thank you. Any questions for Margus Tsahkna? No, it's not. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, Etti Kagarov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U243	Good manager! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! For starters, I'd like to read to you a conversation between the mother of the care family and a child who had just come to her family. This is the information I received for each child at the website of the family. Mother, the larval care parent, is driving down the road with a little four-year-old child. The kid says, "Mommy, here's the way to the orphanage, right? ' Mom: 'Right. " Child: 'But I no longer live in an orphanage! ' Mom: 'You don't live, and it doesn't matter. But if you want, of course you can talk about it. " Kid: 'No, I don't. But you know, Mommy, the other kids still live in an orphanage. ' The family is the most suitable growth environment for the child, which is self-evident for every person. In our society, however, there are also families who cannot cope with raising their own children, and these children are directed to substitute care. The state has been actively involved in improving institutional replacement home services. Most of the national replacement homes have been renovated and transferred to municipalities, but continue with public funding. The main aim of building new replacement homes of the type of family home has been to develop family-based replacement care. From 1 January 2015, a replacement family may consist of up to six children. However, the bounty-based financing system for replacement home services needs to be modernised. Maintaining a ten or eight-person family home with six children's bounty is problematic. But the main thing is to encourage custody of children or family care. The strategic objective of the Ministry of Social Affairs is to increase the role of family-based care in substitution care. With today's draft, we will increase the amount of child allowance in custody or care to EUR 240. This is very important for those dedicated families who share the love, support, guidance and encouragement that children need for their development and who offer children positive prospects for the future. In addition, the development of a support system covering both pre- and post-service services is essential for care, custody and adoption families. Care families are prepared, trained and a family care contract is concluded. They take a child into the family, and then they usually have to take care of themselves. Prepared and trained care families, figuratively speaking, are thrown into the water and are told to start swimming. It is good for them to swim and manage despite hardships when they struggle through great hardships, yet they struggle out. However, there are situations where the family gives up, gives the child back to a substitute home, the child changes the environment again, and his or her sense of security is compromised. Why do such situations arise? In particular, because there is no support system to help resolve the problem situations. Once again, the family is the most suitable environment for the child to grow, but families need a psychological support system in particular. Psychologists have studied children who have lost affection in early childhood, and the effect of losing that relationship on children's development. The relationship disorder manifests in various ways: self-absorbed behaviour, suicide, aggressive behaviour, apathy. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U244	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U245	Some care families have faced a situation where a child arrives in the family who does not allow himself to be touched, not to mention hugging. It is not possible to treat it in the usual good word. Special therapies have been developed so that the child can relate to his or her emotions and begin to feel full. Hence, in addition to the much needed material assistance, a psychological support system is essential for families. Prevention of relationship disorder is important especially for children up to three years of age. They should only be allowed family care, they must have a secure environment and one sure person on whom they can rely. These guidelines and recommendations are in place in the development plans, but more robust action is needed to implement them. A number of non-profit organisations have come to help, they have raised and made problems in society and they have supported families with both advice and force. Their aim has been to support care in the family of a child without parental care. Our common goal should be that every child living in Estonia gets the best possible environment for growth, which is and will remain a family. It is very gratifying that the Minister for Social Protection, Helmen Kütt, was able to find support from the Cabinet in order to value the dedicated work of the care families. This is also reflected in the state budget: each child's allowance for guardianship or care will rise to EUR 240 in the coming year, which will require EUR 1.2 million from the Treasury. The English proverb says that a whole village is needed to raise a child. Every child has value and every child is important. Let us therefore give priority to the child as a priority in society; the rest of the work should be based on the interests and needs of the child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U246	On behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, please, Liisa-Ly Pakosta! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U247	The Fatherland and Res Publica Association support this bill. I would like to congratulate both Minister Helmen Kütt and Etti Kagarov, who both stressed in their presentations that it is necessary to highlight the interests of children and to put them in focus. On behalf of our group, I would also like to congratulate all those families who have taken up this very important and difficult work and provided replacement care for their children. I have also met a number of people who are doing this very grateful work. I fully agree with the previous speaker, who has read the concerns about this work. Unfortunately, of course, this list was not exhaustive yet, but it is not the main content of today's draft. By supporting this draft, however, I am also fulfilling the task of the opposition here to make constructive criticisms and to highlight those points in the draft that could have been better done. I will start with the same call I made for the rise in child benefits: more optimism, friends, especially in matters relating to children! Although we are very grateful to raise child benefits, we find ourselves in a situation where we are abandoning the coefficient-based rise in child benefits because we have not managed to raise them on a coefficient basis so far. This bill would not be in front of us today if we had used the coefficient and raised child allowances on this basis. I am actually saddened that we chose a simpler path in the Riigikogu and leave future increases much more in the attraction winds of political summers than would have been possible in case of factor-based increases. I hope that the coefficient base will be able to bring back into the law and we will be able to give families a more secure sense of security by the fact that if there is one increase in support, there will also be other subsidies for children. The second question is much more fundamental. In wishing to be really constructive, I call for the draft laws relating to children to be published in the explanatory memorandum, even for once, in future, by the children's and their interests. I was very pleased that Minister Helmen Kütt, in his presentation, pointed out this focus verbally. But when I read the explanatory statement from the Ministry, I feel like sharing emotions. Let's unravel Chapter VI, The Effects of the Law. The first is the social impact, including demographic impact. Here we are delighted that the child's maintenance obligation will become cheaper, and there is no mention of the child itself. Let us be honest now, given the rapid increase in the cost of raising a child, this effect is appropriate, but I would actually like to read here about how the child's chances improve. After all, this money is meant for the care of a specific child. I would have liked to see in the explanatory memorandum a description of the costs that children living in a replacement family need in addition to those of children growing in a regular family. I'd like to see that in the explanatory memorandum, because that's the point of the explanatory statement. It will be awkward under the next item 'Advantage to national security and external relations'. At the risk of threatening Estonia's security, however, I dare say that an increase of 20 euros in one child support will not affect the security of the Estonian state to such an extent that it would be worth pointing out more than the social and demographic impact. Can we really view the approach that foreign countries have accused us of offering too little social security, but now that we have increased the support of some ten euros in one, perhaps we will have fewer comments? The fact that we have fewer comments, by the way, has nothing to do with our country's security or external relations. I quote: '... the overall impact on national security and external relations may be considered to be insignificant as the impact is average (compliance is assessed on a regular basis but not on a daily basis). " If there was a daily evaluation, would the impact have been great? The next paragraph, frankly, acts as if it came from the humour domain 'Employment to Regional Development'. This shows that the impact on regional development is important as most municipalities have children under the age of 18. Excuse me, how is the fact that most local governments have children under the age of 18 linked to regional policy implications? An assessment of the impact from the point of view of the child, which has actually been the point of this assessment, is how one or the other legislative amendment affects the situation of the child in particular, the interests of the child and helps to protect the interests of those who stand up for raising the child, is unfortunately completely excluded from this very good draft explanatory memorandum. If we proceed with constructive proposals, then the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union, while supporting this draft, will of course still disagree with the financial source found to cover the draft, i.e. the postponement of the parental pension. We are also of the opinion that delaying or abolishing any allowance for families with children will have a much greater impact on the general sense of family security than on specific amounts of money. That's why we shouldn't go into this kind of thing. Finally, as far as the replacement families are concerned, I regret that the Committee on Culture did not find support in the proposal by the Ministry of Social Affairs to include in the Act on Pre-school Children's Institution a section according to which a child living in a replacement home is considered to have his or her actual place of residence in a replacement home to improve access to day-care centres. The Fatherland and Res Publica Association also put forward a proposal to this effect, unfortunately it did not find the support of the Social Democratic Party and the Reform Party either. At the same time, we have found here that these are the children who need the most and the fastest kindergarten place. Unfortunately, their address in the population register is linked to their real family, which, of course, is not wrong. I hope that this issue will also be resolved as a matter of urgency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U248	There's no more calls. The Committee on Social Affairs has proposed that the first reading of draft 727 be completed. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at 5.15 p.m. on 29 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U249	The next item is the first reading of the draft Act 739 on the Accession of EUROCONTROL to the International Convention on Air Traffic Safety, as amended by the Protocol of 1981 initiated by the Government of the Republic, and to the Multilateral Agreement on Route Charges. The initiator's waitress is Urve Palo, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U250	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. The purpose of this draft law, the title of which was just read out by the chairman, is to accede to the EUROCONTROL International Convention on Air Traffic Safety Cooperation and to the multilateral agreement on route charges from 1 January 2015. By accession, Estonia will become a full member of the European Air Traffic Safety Organisation, EUROCONTROL, which is the central intergovernmental organisation for air traffic management in Europe. Membership will ensure that the country is involved in important European air traffic development processes and will provide an opportunity to engage in them. The objective of the Convention is to ensure effective and safe air traffic in European airspace and to contribute to transnational cooperation in the organisation of airspace and air navigation services, in particular civil-military cooperation. The objective of the multilateral agreement on en route charges, which forms part of the Convention, is to establish common principles for the calculation and collection of charges throughout the EUROCONTROL membership area, i.e. a central charging system, which must contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the Convention and which will result in the collection of charges for air navigation services provided in Estonia instead of EUROCONTROL. During the negotiations with EUROCONTROL, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has agreed that Estonia will have a transitional period of two years to implement the central collection system. Only on 1 January 2017 will the transition to the new system allow the country and companies to prepare for this. The application of the transitional period is subject to Estonia's accession to the Convention and to the charging agreement on 1 January 2015. EUROCONTROL is the central and main European air traffic competence centre, the central European air traffic network administration and the crisis coordination centre. EUROCONTROL plays a key role in the development and implementation of European air traffic strategies, is a partner of the European Commission in the development of central air navigation regulations, the implementation of the Single European Sky, the European Common Sky, and the economic efficiency of air traffic services. EUROCONTROL is also a systemically promoting coordination between civil-military flight movements. Compared to the European Union, EUROCONTROL allows wider European sectoral cooperation, since its membership exceeds the membership of the European Union by 12 countries. As EUROCONTROL will and will continue to play a unique role in Europe and provide services directly related to Estonia due to its geographical location, it is in Estonia's interest to participate in the development and activities of the organisation equally with other European countries. Non-membership is the result of a number of restrictions that put Estonia in a less favourable position compared to other European countries, particularly in terms of information and equal opportunities. Being an equal partner for other countries and participating directly and equally in the development of European air traffic management with other countries in the region, the country will be better informed about planned sectoral developments, such as the introduction of new technical concepts in the near future. This will allow Estonian institutions to prepare better for developments, while also helping to avoid information dependence on other countries. The merger will contribute to the expansion of business opportunities for companies, such as participation in EUROCONTROL procurement. Estonian citizens will first and foremost be able to improve their professional skills by opening up opportunities for them to study and work in the organisation. The Member States of the European Civil Aviation Conference, including Estonia, have already adopted a decision in 1997 to encourage all Member States to join EUROCONTROL in order to ensure coordinated development of air traffic services and airspace management in the region, jointly contributing resources to it. Nearly all the countries in the European region have now joined it. 27 of the 40 member states of the organisation are European Union countries. Estonia is the last country of the European Union that has not joined EUROCONTROL. The merger entails the obligation for the State to pay an organisation membership fee of 0,187% of the budget of the EUROCONTROL Agency in 2015, i.e. EUR 798318. The membership fee will be covered by the en route charges received by Air Traffic Services AS as owner revenue to the State, which will be increased by an amount of 5% for this purpose. The increase in this extent is not expected to have a significant impact on overflight traffic, as Estonian charges are the lowest in the European region. The increase concerns, in particular, overflights, i.e. cross-border traffic, which are predominantly foreign operators. The price increase due to membership does not concern terminal navigation charges related to the provision of services for flights landing at Estonian airports. The fees paid by airlines in the EUROCONTROL region do not increase overall due to Estonia's accession, as the addition of the Estonian membership fee to the EUROCONTROL budget reduces the membership fee for the rest of the region. Covering costs in this way is an international practice. The costs of airlines may change further as the components of the Estonian cost base change slightly from 1 January 2017 when the central charging system is planned to be implemented. By this time, the same principles of taxation of services must be introduced in Estonia, which will apply throughout the EUROCONTROL membership area. The introduction of the system and changes to the cost base structure will be preceded by the evaluation of Estonia's current charging system by EUROCONTROL in 2016. The main principles of EUROCONTROL in assessing the costs of navigation services are transparency, justification and avoidance of unjustified cross-subsidisation between services. The Estonian terminal's navigation fee may need to be increased and the route fee reduced based on the assessment. However, it is not possible to say anything exactly about this before the 2016 evaluation. It should be taken into account that these changes may also take place in the case of non-merger, as the cost effectiveness of air traffic services is monitored by the European Commission, in addition to EUROCONTROL, which follows the same principles and cooperates with EUROCONTROL in its assessment. The date of accession agreed between EUROCONTROL and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications in the Declaration of Common Intentions of 17 June 2013 shall be 1 January 2015. Since the accession takes effect on the first day of the second month following the deposit of the instruments of accession in the Kingdom of Belgium, it is necessary to adopt the draft as a law by mid-November at the latest so that it can also be held in November. The impact analysis of the draft has been labour-intensive and only completed in September this year. Deferral of the merger beyond the agreed deadline may lead to additional costs for Estonia in purchasing services from EUROCONTROL, whose annual offer price significantly exceeds the membership fee. This is impractical because the services of EUROCONTROL have been covered by the membership fee since the merger. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U251	Minister, thank you. There are no questions. I would like to ask for a co-report by Kalev Kallemets, member of the Economic Committee of the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U252	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. On 13 October a meeting of the Economic Commission was held in which draft law 739 was discussed, on the basis of which the Republic of Estonia would join the European Organisation for Safety of Air Navigation, established in 1960. The Minister made such an exhaustive report that I have very little to add, but I will mention some aspects. Indeed, Estonia is quite surprisingly the last Member State of the European Union to join this organisation. European countries such as Georgia, Ukraine, Moldova, Norway, Turkey and many others have joined it. It is also noteworthy that since we can collect a membership fee through additional charges on overflights, which are included in the owner's income, from this almost EUR 800000 the national income can also be taken into account as dividend income. So, in fact, the Republic of Estonia should remain a plus of around 400000 euros when it joins this organisation, rather than creating new costs. All air traffic services, or cross-flights, are a relatively important source of revenue for the Republic of Estonia. For example, the next year's state budget plans to receive dividends of 4.25 million euros from Air Traffic Services AS. So successful action in this sector is in the economic interests of the Republic of Estonia. The Commission proposed that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for submitting amendments be five working days, i.e. 22 October, at 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U253	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 739 amendments. 22 October 2010 at 5 p.m. The item on item 14 is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U254	Let's move on to item 15. The first reading of Bill 718 of the Law amending the Code of Civil Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic and other laws relating thereto begins. It is my great honour to ask Mr Andres Anvelt, Minister of Justice, for a presentation of the Riigikogu Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U255	Mr President! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I will give you an overview of the draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure and related amendments to other laws 718 which the Government of the Republic has passed on to the Riigikogu. This is a draft which ensures the smooth implementation of directly applicable EU regulations. This means that these regulations will apply even if we do not amend our laws, but in order to make this implementation smoother, there is a need for certain adjustments to the Code of Civil Procedure. So what are the corrections? First of all, it is a so-called Brussels I regulation which applies to civil and commercial matters, with the exception of insolvency, arbitration, maintenance and succession. The Brussels I Regulation contains rules on jurisdiction, rules to prevent the risk of conflicting judgments in situations where parallel legal proceedings are held in several Member States in the same case. It also contains rules on the recognition and enforcement in another Member State of a decision or authentic instrument issued by a Member State. A major amendment to the Brussels I Regulation is the abolition of the procedure for the recognition and declaration of enforceability of judicial decisions and authentic instruments in another Member State, as the Union acts in a spirit of mutual trust in justice. The order is based on the assumption that the defence of the defendant's interests is already guaranteed in the court proceedings in which the decision was taken. Furthermore, it is worth highlighting that the regulation contains more favourable jurisdiction rules for policyholders, consumers and the weaker parties to a contract of employment. The recast Brussels I Regulation will apply from 10 January of the following year. The Regulation on mutual recognition of protection measures establishes rules for the simple and rapid recourse to protection measures in civil matters in one Member State in another. Pursuant to Article 4 of the Regulation, a protection measure granted in one Member State shall be recognised in the other Member States without any special procedure and shall be enforceable without the need for a declaration of enforceability. The following is a detailed description of the national changes that are reflected in the draft. An application for refusal of enforcement provided for in the Regulation shall be submitted to the courts of the place where the debtor is domiciled or after enforcement proceedings. The certificate issued under the Regulation shall be issued, corrected and revoked by the county court which imposed the safeguard measure and, where appropriate, adjusted by the bailiff to whom it was submitted for enforcement. In so far as, under these directly applicable regulations, an authentic instrument is treated under the same conditions as a judicial decision, the draft act supplements the list of enforceable documents in the Code of Enforcement Procedure with an official foreign document which has been declared enforceable in Estonia or is to be enforced without recognition. In addition, it complements the Code of Civil Procedure with appropriate references to the Regulations concerned. The draft establishes a regulation on the basis of which, if the judgment or authentic instrument issued pursuant to the Regulations under consideration contains a measure or order which is not known in Estonian law, or the measure requires the factual circumstances contained in the decision or the authentic instrument to be adjusted, the measure or factual circumstances shall be adapted by the bailiff in such a way as to enable it to be carried out in accordance with Estonian law. The draft also limits the possibility of reopening the period of proceedings in arbitration proceedings, thereby allowing for the control of the procedure for amending the interim decision extending the arbitration procedure to be used as a malicious delay. The general principle of arbitration also provides for a requirement of confidentiality in respect of judicial proceedings in which matters of arbitration are settled. The amendment is made on the grounds that the existing grounds for declaring the proceedings in camera are not sufficient given the specific nature of the arbitration procedure and the confidentiality principle in force there. In addition, the draft contains an amendment to the administrative court procedure concerning the clarification of the service of an electronic document, which removes the unreasonable situation for courts regarding the electronic service of summons and the restoration of proceedings. Finally, the draft contains an amendment to the procedure under the Hague Convention on the International Recovery of Child Support and Other Family Maintenance. According to this, it is also possible to provide legal aid in support of the above-mentioned procedure. The draft law sets out 10 January of the following year as the date of entry into force of the Act, as the regulations that need to be implemented will apply on 11 January 2015. I hope that the Riigikogu will be able to process the draft in such timeframes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U256	Minister, I do not see the hail of questions. Thank you. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu to Mikhail Korbi, member of the Legal Affairs Committee!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U257	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure and related amendments to other laws at a meeting held on Monday, 6 October. Andres Anvelt, Minister of Justice, Kristen Kanarik, Adviser to the Minister of Justice, and Stella Johanson, Adviser to the Department of Private Law in the Legal Policy Department of the Ministry of Justice, were invited. The Minister presented the content of the draft to the Commission and explained the following. The main objective of the draft is to support the implementation of Regulations Nos 1215/2012 and 606/2013. He added that although these regulations are directly applicable and do not need to be transposed into national law in order to implement them, some amendments and clarifications need to be made to support the smooth implementation of the regulations. Accordingly, the draft amends the Code of Civil Procedure, the Code of Administrative Court Procedure, the Law of Notariat, the Law of State Fees, the Law of State Legal Aid and the Code of Enforcement Procedure. As a result of changes of a technical nature, a certificate confirming the impact and extent of the recognition of the protection measure will be issued in the future by the county court which designated the protection measure. Correction of the certificate shall be carried out on the same basis and in accordance with the procedure as in the case of Estonian judicial decisions. If the certificate is wrongly issued, the court or tribunal of the country which issued the certificate may cancel the certificate. The Minister of Justice also pointed out that foreign authentic instruments recognised and declared enforceable by the Estonian court or not to be enforced are added to the list of enforcement documents. Unfortunately, there was no substantive debate in the Commission. It was decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 15 October and to propose that the first reading be closed. There were 7 members of the Commission in favour of the decision, one against and no abstentions. It was decided, by consensus, to appoint a speaker to act as rapporteur and to propose that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 4 p.m. on 29 October. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-15_U258	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments to draft 718 at 16 o'clock on 29 October. The first reading is closed and the 15th item is also closed. Good fellows, today's session is closed. Closure of the sitting at 5.52 p.m.
