ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U1	Dear fellow Members, Honourable Riigikogu! Good morning. We will begin the session of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday of the 13th working week. First of all, I would like to ask for a chair of speakers from the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or inquiries. Please, Vladimir Velman!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U2	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Foreign Affairs initiates a draft to amend the decision of the Riigikogu 'Construction of the Estonian delegation of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly'. At its meeting on 5 May, the Committee on Foreign Affairs supported the proposal by the Group of the Social Democratic Party to appoint Marianne Mikko as Head of Delegation. The proposal of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to the Executive Board of the Riigikogu is to set the deadline for submitting the draft amendments on Friday 9 May at 16 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U3	Riigikogu speech chair Rait Maruse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Constitutional Affairs is pleased to hand over a draft supplementing the law to the Chancellor of Justice. The draft seeks to supplement the law of the Chancellor of Justice and explicitly provides for the Chancellor of Justice's task of supervising compliance with the fundamental rights and freedoms of persons with regard to the organisation of the collection, processing, use and supervision of personal data and related information by the authorities of the executing State. The current version of the Chancellor of Justice Act does not explicitly provide for the competence of the Chancellor of Justice to verify the discreet processing of personal data. The powers of supervision laid down in the draft act must be understood as a clarification of the powers of the Chancellor of Justice to supervise the Ombudsman. When adopted as a law, the draft will ensure greater legal clarity, neutrality and professionalism in the supervision of the discreet processing of information, thereby contributing to a better guarantee of the fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals in the activities of the executive. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U5	Ken-Marti Vaheri, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please! Good fellows, there's a little too much noise in the hall. I beg you to keep your voice down!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union will submit a draft decision of the Riigikogu concerning the transfer of the Academy of Home Affairs to the county of Ida-Viru. We propose that the Government of the Republic designate the National Defence Academy as its new seat in Ida-Virumaa and establish a new study building within the current budget period of the European Union. In the opinion of the IRL Group, this is an important security and also regional policy step. During the previous government coalition, this step has been discussed quite a number of times. A number of tests have been carried out. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] The most recent deadline has been set by the end of the second quarter of 2014 and by this time the government will have to submit revised materials on the transfer of the Estonian Academy of Home Affairs to Ida-Viru County. In the opinion of the IRL Group, this is one of the most concrete and real steps to make the presence of the Estonian state more felt in Ida-Virumaa. We have, for example, similar self-promoting steps since 2013, when the Department of Prisons of the Ministry of Justice was taken there, now located in Jõhvi. In 2008, a complex Viru prison was established. As far as the budget is concerned, the resources allocated under the financial perspective of the European Union have been taken into account in order to bring together the Academy of Internal Defence in one place. We believe that this place should be in Ida-Virumaa and we hope that Parliament will support this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U7	Please to the Riigikogu Chair Margus Hanson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U8	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 5 May, the Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed the issue of the delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, as the Group of the Social Democratic Party has tabled a proposal to change its composition, namely as follows. Due to changes in the government coalition, the Social Democratic Party Group proposes to appoint an alternate member of the delegation, Indrek Saar, as Head of Delegation, and Liisa-Ly Pakosta to be an alternate member of the delegation. In addition, I can say this, and I must say that the Committee on Foreign Affairs has proposed to the Riigikogu that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 16 a.m. on Friday 9 May. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U9	Dear colleagues, I have adopted four drafts on behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu. According to our Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Now we're going to do a presence check. 81 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 20 missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U10	Let us begin the debate on the items on today's agenda. The first item is the first reading of the draft law amending § 29 of the Citizenship Act, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by Jaak Alliku, member of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U11	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of this bill is to enable people who have the citizenship of another state in addition to Estonian citizenship to retain Estonian citizenship if it is impossible, dangerous or unreasonable to give up the citizenship of another state. According to § 1 (2) of the Citizenship Act, an Estonian citizen must not at the same time be a national of another state. If a person has entered the citizenship of another state as an Estonian citizen and has not previously renounced Estonian citizenship, the Police and Border Guard Board will start the procedure for reading Estonian citizenship in accordance with § 29 of the Citizenship Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U12	Good waitress, I'm sorry! Dear colleagues, our hearing has been going on for seven minutes and 55 seconds, but there is still a very loud noise in the Chamber. There's someone coming from every line, whispering something, someone talking louder. Quiet, please! Please respect the waitress, please respect those colleagues who wish to listen to the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U13	The Police and Border Guard Board has no discretion in this matter. During the administrative procedure, the person is given the opportunity to give up the citizenship of another country for a certain period of time and thus remain Estonian citizenship. The purpose of the bill is to give the Police and Border Guard Board discretion and to enable the person to retain Estonian citizenship even in cases where he or she is unable to renounce the citizenship of another country. The Social Democratic Party Group put this draft into Riigikogu proceedings on 30 January 2014, immediately after the Riigikogu had rejected the same draft at first reading on 28 January with a voting ratio of 38:37. It is recalled that the 13-year-old girl Kristina Bruyeva, who lives in Kohtla-Järve, was an incentive to submit the bill. He had been deprived of Estonian citizenship acquired by naturalisation against his will, since his father had in the meantime become a citizen of the Russian Federation and also took Russian citizenship for his child. A girl who speaks Estonian freely and even received a letter of honor from the President of the Republic wanted to give up Russian citizenship, but the fact was that Russian law only allows for this in the case of a minor if one of the parents is a citizen of another country. Unfortunately, the mother of a girl is stateless, which case is not covered by the Russian Citizenship Act. We were encouraged to present the draft again the fact that the decision of the Riigikogu on 28 January caused widespread resentment in the public, and President Toomas Hendrik Ilves and Prime Minister Andrus Ansip also spoke with the same content. I quote to the President: 'I hope that our state machine will stop before taking Estonian citizenship away from a 13-year-old girl in Kohtla-Järve. What's the girl to blame for? I'm asking the officials for humanity and understanding. ' Prime Minister Ansip said in Vikerradio: 'If a young person is convinced that he will definitely want to be an Estonian citizen when he grows up, then simply because it is not possible for minors to give up their Russian citizenship, we should not leave him without Estonian citizenship. ' I am not going to stop at the debate in the Riigikogu on 28 January. Both in the negative opinion on the draft law under discussion today, signed by the Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher, on 14 March, the Government of the Republic withdrew from the discussion on whether or not this bill amends the fundamental principles of the Citizenship Act. As you can understand, we are talking about the ban on double citizenship as a fundamental principle of Estonian citizenship policy. I would like to stress that this draft does not wish to amend Article 1 (2) of the Citizenship Act, which provides for this prohibition. Thus, the draft does not interfere with the fundamental principle of Estonian citizenship that is understood in this way. We only wish to supplement the Citizenship Act § 29, which talks about the loss of Estonian citizenship by accepting the citizenship of another state or giving up Estonian citizenship. According to the text of the current Act, a person is considered to have lost Estonian citizenship by a government institution authorised by the Government of the Republic by the adoption of citizenship of another state or by the abandonment of Estonian citizenship in favour of citizenship of another state. We would like this point of law to be subject to an exception under which the provision would not apply if the person proves that it is impossible, dangerous or unreasonable to give up the nationality of another country. Such an exception would provide the Police and Border Guard Board with a legal basis for discretion. The claim that such a right would open the gate to the mass increase of people with double citizenship, in addition to the 100 thousand already in existence, is, in my opinion, offensive to the Police and Border Guard Board. I would like to stress that Estonia is one of the few European countries where double citizenship is prohibited. However, also in countries where this is the case, there are exceptions that protect children and families. For example, one of the most indisputable laws of citizenship in Austria is one of the strictest, but there, too, citizenship of another country can be maintained when it comes to the well-being of the child or for a valid private or family reason. In the case of a specific Kohtla-Järve young woman and others like her, a legislative amendment would simply extend the current reality to the 18-year-old of the parties concerned, when they would be able to renounce the citizenship of the Russian Federation and the basis for the derogation provided for by the law would disappear. I hope that the majority of the Riigikogu has in the meantime had time to look into our proposal and the humane considerations behind it and, in cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior, it will soon be possible to introduce the principle of our draft as a legislative amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U14	Thank you! You have at least one question. Väino Linde, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U15	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I heard about this bill from the media today and listened to your presentation on the facts of the bill. I am also familiar with the procedure for this draft in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. We're talking about the bill dealing only with minors, you brought it into the case of a minor girl in Kohtla-Järve. However, when we look at the text of this bill, there is no word here that the bill specifically concerns minors. If this draft became a law, the content of the amendment would be much wider and apply to all persons, including adults. Why this very sharp contradiction between the content of your presentation and the text of the bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U16	Thank you for your question. This is not a sharp contradiction. But we've been dealing with it, yes, all along, somewhat expanded. In the case of an adult, you can imagine a situation where a person cannot give up the citizenship of another country. Let's take the simplest example. If a person has come to Estonia as a political refugee and received refugee status here, he or she should return to a country where he or she is threatened with imprisonment in order to give up his or her citizenship. When this draft law was discussed in this Chamber last time, it was confirmed that there have actually been no such cases in practice. I believe that this has also been emphasised in the opinion of the Government of the Republic. But at the same time, we can imagine that such a situation is possible, and then it is strange to come up with a bill that goes back to one or two or three people. I see nothing evil about it, and I really do not believe that the Police and Border Guard Board is unable to exercise the discretion granted to it. I would like to stress once again that proving that it is not possible to give up citizenship is not within the competence of the Police and Border Guard Board. He may be able to verify it, but it must still be proved by the person who is the applicant.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U17	Lauri Vahtre, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U18	Thank you! Dear waitress, Let me get this straight: if we adopt this law, there will be a situation where there will be a legal opportunity to acquire double citizenship. In conjunction with your explanations, I think it is a brief lesson in how to achieve this. Before becoming an adult, you must acquire Estonian citizenship by naturalisation and then allow yourself to develop Russian citizenship through your parents. And now we're going to say by law that yes, so you can, that's right and nothing happens. Why are we doing this?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U19	First of all, thank you for your question. I would point out that naturalisation can only acquire Estonian citizenship if both parents are not Estonian citizens, if they are both owners of our grey passport. Now, if we assume that the baby is about to have such a clever plan, how to gain Estonian citizenship and plus Russian citizenship, then perhaps we will overestimate the baby and also its parents. They still have a lot of operations to do. Both of them must not have Estonian citizenship, at least one parent must take the citizenship of another country and the child must also take it, and in the end, at the age of 18, the child must give it up anyway. I do not believe that there will be many requests for such complex procedures, and I do not think that the particular case we are talking about was made up that way either. After all, the whole way forward proves that it wasn't meant to be a two-state nationality scheme. Apparently, the girl's father didn't know that. And as far as adults are concerned, I would like to stress once again that why do we think that our Police and Border Guard Board is neither analytical nor able to identify possible individual leaders with some kind of malicious scheme at stake? After all, these are mostly objective reasons. But when it comes to double citizenship, I would point out that according to the Ministry of the Interior, there are 25,000 people in Estonia, and when I heard Mr Ansip's radio interviews on Rainbow Radio, he named the number 100,000. So the individual double-citizens who could be added to this change will not significantly aggravate the problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U20	Paul-Eerik Rummo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U21	Thank you. Definitely against his will or without his knowledge of the difficult situation, the protection of a minor by the Estonian state is a noble goal and a good thing for both the state and the person in question. Just in the background, however, a few years ago, I had a lot to do with citizenship policy, and I dealt with it as a minister of population. My experience was that it was very difficult for the authorities of the Russian Federation to obtain any credible information, how many Russian Federation citizens there are in Estonia, or how many people have Estonian citizenship in Russia. Has this situation improved in any way now? So far, the figures are how many people with grey passports we have, who really do not have any other nationality, and how many citizens of the Russian Federation we have, purely estimated.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U22	Thank you for your question. Since I have not dealt specifically with this problem, I do not know whether the situation has improved or not improved. The other way around, I see the objective interest of the Russian Federation behind this, why would it so much like to give this data to the Republic of Estonia? He has no interest, as it were. We'll take the specific case that started this bill. The girl had an Estonian passport, and when she went with her mother to change her passport, she also presented a Russian passport for some reason. But how many people are there who simply do not present a Russian passport and are calmly in double citizenship, we really do not know that.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U23	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U24	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! The law shall apply retroactively from 1 April 1995. What does that mean in practice? Can those children who have already been deprived of Estonian citizenship get it back?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U25	Thank you for your question. This is a very specific legal issue. I'm afraid I don't know exactly what to say. I can only explain why it is applied retroactively. On the one hand, the principle, as I understand it, is that if the law adds any benefits to a person, a citizen, it can be applied retroactively. If something is taken away, it should not be applied retroactively. The specific problem arises even from the situation of that girl. After all, this fact came to light before the amendment to our normal rules could enter into force, and then the question arises as to whether it applies to him or not. Can somebody get the Estonian citizenship back now? Perhaps you will ask this question to the co-rapporteur, Mr Marus, who, as his lawyer, may be able to answer precisely. I can't interpret it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U26	Andrus Ansip, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U27	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! I still believe that the child should not be deprived of the citizenship of the Republic of Estonia against his or her will. But I do not understand why your proposed bill deals with the issue of dangerous or unreasonablely complicated abandonment of citizenship, when we know that none of this has happened in life. And why doesn't this bill deal with about 100,000 foreign Estonians who either have double citizenship or would like to have it, but for whom the law is currently ruling out the possibility of double citizenship. Why isn't the bill dealing with these people?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U28	Thank you, Mr. Ansip. Your point is extremely correct, and it would be even nicer if we could take it as a proposal. Unfortunately, we did not quite agree on how to resolve this issue during the coalition negotiations. I very much hope that, as time and society evolve, we will certainly come to an idea that you very rightly put forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U29	Etti Kagarov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U30	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Can you tell me what it's like to solve this 13-year-old girl's case right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U31	Thank you. First of all, I don't know if he's 14 years old. It's been a while, and I don't know when her birthday is. But we really did find out what happened now. In the meantime, the D.O.R. came in to tell us we're gonna keep our eyes closed and let this story develop for four years. In our relationship with the girl's mother, however, we received the following overview of the situation. The family was promised that the situation may last until the end of June, but then the mother will have to take the Estonian language examination, or the maiden will be taken away from Estonian citizenship. Mom says he can't take his exam right now. It's a weird situation now. The girl has Estonian citizenship, she speaks Estonian freely and wants to preserve Estonian citizenship, but we should take it away from her. At the same time, we very much want the Estonian citizen to become his mother, who has not so far actively wanted this because of the language situation in the region. I don't mean to say it's happening against Mom's will, but the fact is that we've sort of put a family before a forced choice.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U32	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U33	Thank you. My question is that the case that you have just referred to in the report is not, in fact, the legal relationship that you want to regulate with your draft, you are perfectly aware of it. Your proposal is clearly that those who become citizens under naturalisation should be granted double citizenship if the person proves that it is impossible, dangerous or unreasonable to give up the citizenship of another country. Which means that if thousands of people who have received Estonian citizenship by naturalisation would take the citizenship of the Russian Federation, for example, and the Russian Federation would impose some unreasonable criterion on them in its legal order, then Estonian citizenship policy must retreat. In my opinion, this is a move away from the principles of citizenship policy, a change to them, a step forward, as you have described it here affectionately. Tell me what the real motive for this bill is! It does not really regulate a specific legal relationship, as is the government's assessment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U34	What is the real motive, of course, is what I presented the report on, and it is written here in the draft. Currently, under the Citizenship Act of the Russian Federation, adults are able to renounce Russian citizenship and are therefore not subject to the regulation of this bill. Is it logical to assume that the Russian Federation will now come up with something particularly interesting in order to bully or undermine the Republic of Estonia and will make the law of its citizenship such that you cannot give up Russian citizenship at all? I cannot imagine the citizenship law of one country, which states that citizenship of that country cannot be renounced. There's no such law in the world as far as I know. But if there was a change like this, we'd better come back to the point and regulate our law accordingly. But it is now very clear in the law of the Russian Federation that anyone can give up Russian citizenship from the age of 18. So this isn't the subject of our draft regulation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U35	Ken-Marti Vaher, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U36	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You constantly startle with your explanations about this draft as well as about Estonian citizenship policy at all. In your reply to the above, you pointed out with a certain irony that the Republic of Estonia has begun to direct persons of undefined citizenship, such as the mother of this Kohtla-Järve girl, to acquire Estonian citizenship. It seems to me that this should be one of the aims of our citizenship policy, so that those who do not have citizenship, who own a 'grey passport', take steps with the help of the state to become an Estonian citizen. Do you really find it strange that the Republic of Estonia has discussed with the mother of that Kohtla-Järve girl how she could acquire Estonian citizenship and offered her the opportunity to learn Estonian? Let me get this straight. Or did I misunderstand your ironic answer?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U37	Yes, you misunderstood my ironic answer. Of course, it is very positive that the Republic of Estonia finds different motivations for non-citizens to acquire Estonian citizenship. But I can't imagine that this motivation could be that if you don't pass the exam by the end of June, we're gonna take your daughter's citizenship away. I don't think that's the most positive motivation for this kind of thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U38	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U39	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I do not understand § 2 (2) of the bill, which says that the law will be applied retroactively from 1 April 1995. Why this April 1st, 1995? I have such a speculative question, why not 1993 or 2000?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U40	Maybe I'm wrong, but I think it's the time of entry into force of this citizenship law. That's how I figured it out. If I've misunderstood, I'm sorry, but I think that's what this means. The only logic seems to be in this. But if there's something wrong here, of course we can fix it before we read it again.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U41	Paul-Eerik Rummo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U42	Thank you. I repeat the same question that Mr Efendiev has just asked. In replying to Yana Toom, you said that you do not think that the law will actually be applied retroactively or that it cannot be applied for any reason, that persons who, after the entry into force of the current version of the Citizenship Act on 1 April 1995, have obtained Estonian citizenship on this basis, will be granted it retroactively if they have lost it in the meantime. You say you can't do it or you don't intend to. I do not understand what this retroactivity means in this bill at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U43	First of all, when we talk about specific children, they've grown up a long time ago. Once again, I have understood the principle of retroactive implementation precisely as the question of whether this also applies to those people for whom the draft is in the process of being put into effect under the ordinary rules of the law may arise. We would also like this to apply to those who are currently facing this problem. I don't think anyone's going to solve any individual cases on this basis, for example, since 1996 or 1999.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U44	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U45	Thank you. I understood from the answer to my question that if the Russian Federation would make its citizenship requirements more difficult for those who have become Estonian citizens by naturalisation, which would lead to a waiver, this current draft would be the basis for the subsequent draft to subject Estonian citizenship rights to the citizenship law of the Russian Federation. In other words, if the Russian Federation changes its right to citizenship, then we also need to make it more comfortable for those who have acquired naturalisation. The question is that these two paragraphs combined with a very single goal, there is no spin. Since 1995, when a person says that it is difficult or unreasonable for him to give up the citizenship of the Russian Federation, we are also legalising this double citizenship. Is that really your intention?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U46	No, that's not the real intention. You're talking about some people who've had double citizenship for 20 or 15 years. And the citizenship of the Russian Federation, I say again, can be renounced. And I would not only talk about the Russian Federation, there are about 200 countries in the world and everyone has their own citizenship law. But the entire lawroom is not eternal in any country, and it is not the Ten Commandments recorded in the Bible. Each country adjusts its laws according to the situation surrounding it. If we see that, for some reason, one or another provision in the Citizenship Act is harmful to the Estonian state or does not work, they must be changed according to the specific circumstances. We should not speculate on the possibilities that can happen if one or the other country does so or another. Any country can do something that, because of some of our laws, causes a bad situation for Estonia, and then it is natural that Estonia will change its law in such a way as to suit us. That doesn't mean we're subjecting our laws to someone else's jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U47	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U48	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Like my colleague, Mr Linde, I am a little puzzled by the fact that there is no syllable of minors in the draft text. In the explanatory memorandum you read, and on which you quoted Toomas Hendrik Ilves and Andrus Ansip, all the talk was about eliminating the injustice of minors. Why such a contradiction? In my opinion, it is a bit of a lame style, to say the least, when you come to present a draft and an explanatory memorandum that clearly contradicts each other. But my question is motivated by Andrus Ansip's question here, and from the answer to him I realized that the Social Democrats are prepared to initiate a bill that would try to solve this problem, that it is in the case of Estonian citizenship at birth that there is a contradiction with the current constitution. The Constitution prohibits the taking away of Estonian citizenship at birth, but the Citizenship Act prohibits double citizenship. It's about a lot of outsiders.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U49	First of all, the first part of your question. Once again, a minor is a person. In this sense, the bill also applies to adults. Indeed, the current draft text would also cover cases where it can be demonstrated that an adult cannot give up his or her citizenship. Once again, this point of the Russian Federation is not at all concerned at this time. But now the other part of your question. Yes, the Social Democrats are certainly prepared to initiate a discussion on this issue and to discuss it, because the contradiction between these two provisions has long been clear and the number of people with double citizenship is increasing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U50	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U51	Thank you. Dear waitress, When you answered my colleague, Lauri Vahtre, you remarked ironically that you did not believe that the infant was tempted to play with citizenship. This was not about babies, but, above all, about their parents' and the policy of the Russian Federation. I ask you, in the context of this draft and the amendment of the law, the following: We know very well that the Russian Federation has given Russian citizenship to its inhabitants on a massive basis in Crimea. If Moscow decides to take the same step in Estonia, can thousands of people with double citizenship be created in our country?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U52	Thank you. Firstly, I do not consider it appropriate to draw parallels between the situation in Estonia and that in Crimea in this Chamber. I don't think it's appropriate to draw any parallels between them. Secondly, when we look at practice, double-citizens are created all the time, but we know nothing about it. Now we know this one case when a person has made his double citizenship public. If we adopt this law, we will make law-abiding people equal to those who are not law-abiding. Basically, it is relatively easy for non-citizens living in Estonia to acquire Russian citizenship at the moment, and I do not see any need to use any scams to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U53	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U54	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! Can you tell me why you didn't take into account this proposal from the Centre Party, which I think we've already come up with twice to grab the children with one parent Russian citizen and the other one with a grey passport? In essence, the situation is the same.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U55	I'm just expressing my personal opinion now. I think that the discussion in this Chamber would then have gotten even longer and the adoption of the draft would have become more doubtful.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U56	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U57	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! There are also two grandchildren in my family who are born with double citizenship. On Sunday night, my wife and I stopped by their house. 13-year-old Toomas asked why Estonia has such a law that it has to give up the mother's or father's citizenship. I said that we would be discussing this, and I believe and hope that he will not have to give up his father's or mother's citizenship and his sister's. Do you think that's gonna happen? Did I say it right?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U58	Dear colleague Kaljuvee! First of all, I hope you said the right thing. I hope that happens. And if you were to propose a bill with such content, I can assure you that you will certainly find those in the Socialist Group who are in favour of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U59	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U60	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! As a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I did not understand Yana Toomi's question as to why the proposal of the Centre Party was not taken into account. I have not been involved in this proposal in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, would you explain in what form it was made?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U61	If I remember correctly, and Mrs Toom also referred to this, then the Centre Party has tabled a draft law on this subject, not an amendment to this draft. And I think the Riigikogu has dealt with the bill that Yana Toom referred to.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U62	Andrus Ansip, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U63	Thank you, President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! There are hundreds and thousands of families in Estonia where one parent has the citizenship of the Republic of Estonia and the other parent has the citizenship of another country. For example, the mother has Estonian citizenship and the father has UK citizenship, the child has double citizenship. I believe that all these people now expect the Riigikogu to solve the problem of these children in such a way that they do not have to give up either of the citizenships of the Republic of Estonia or the United Kingdom when they grow up, either of the citizenships of the Republic of Estonia or of the Republic of Finland. Why is this bill still dealing with people who find it dangerous or unreasonable to give up the citizenship of another country? There have been no such cases in the history of the Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U64	Good questioner, your time is up!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U65	Why doesn't it deal with thousands of people who have a real problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U66	Thank you again, Mr. Ansip. Indeed, I read in the Citizenship Act that people like Mr Kaljuvee's grandchildren must give up Estonian citizenship or the citizenship of this other country for three years. And we know there's gonna be more of these people all the time. This bill is quickly trying to resolve the specific situations that are in the Republic of Estonia. However, the content of this draft is relatively narrow. If you would join Mr Kaljuvee and present a broader draft, we would certainly support it. I, too, would very much like for such a bill to enter the proceedings of the Riigikogu during its term. But I am afraid that our ladies and gentlemen from the IRL, who have even handled this case quite sharply, would launch the right lively discussion in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U67	Jaak Aaviksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U68	Thank you. IRL certainly does not deal with this case of minor in the key that you see it. This particular problem should be resolved and, if this draft would help to do so, it could be supported. However, I did not overlook the fact that the draft has been introduced with the strategic intention of providing for double citizenship in the broadest possible way in the future. The specific draft focuses on people with double citizenship in countries where it is difficult to give up citizenship. It is not impossible to imagine in which cases it would be difficult to give up the citizenship of another country. Once again, please explain what you mean by impossible or unreasonablely complicated abandonment!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U69	Yes, in our draft, the words 'impossible' are said to be this case, which has been mentioned here, and 'dangerous or unreasonable'. It must be easier to explain what is dangerous, that is, if a person's life or his freedom really falls into danger if he or she goes to a particular country. The unreasonably complex here is illustrated by the fact that some countries may have ceased to exist in the meantime. But I will say once again that our Police and Border Guard Board employs sufficiently good specialists in the field of citizenship, who will certainly be able to decide, using discretion, whether or not it is unreasonable to give up citizenship. To begin by expressing what it means in the law, it doesn't make any sense. Well, the whole list isn't exactly heavy-weight. To see here the possibility that someone will prove to the Police and Border Guard that it is unreasonablely complicated, and the Police and Border Guard Board agrees, although the common sense says that listen, it is not difficult, go to the embassy of that other country, we really underestimate the capabilities of our Police and Border Guard Board. We think that there are people working there who specifically want to misinterpret this law. I don't believe it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U70	Lauri Vahtre, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U71	Thank you! A very enlightening debate. Thank you! In response to Lembit Kaljuvee's question, we learned that you support the provision of double citizenship for a child whose parents are, for example, one Estonian citizen and another UK citizen. But what happens if we legitimise it and we have a child whose mother is an Estonian and British citizen and a father is a Turkish and Japanese citizen, for example. Then the child should have four citizenships and his or her child, eight, if he or she finds a suitable marriage mate. I think it's absurd. Does this mean that you support absurdity and intend to put it into practice?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U72	Good Mr. Vahtre, any thought can lead to absurdity. Secondly, I think that should we reach the draft that Mr Kaljuvee referred to here and Mr Ansip asked about, the practice of other countries should also be examined. It is known that double citizenship is allowed in most European countries. There, too, it could have gone to absurdity, but with some provisions it has been avoided. Probably older than us, and the countries that have been dealing with democratic legislation for a longer time, have foreseen that this will not go to absurdity. The number of citizenships and citizens does not increase in geometric progression. It is probably possible to impose certain restrictions. How, I can't tell you right now, but I don't see anything hugely complicated here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U73	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U74	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, As far as I know, the Social Democrats are in a coalition with the Reform Party. I ask whether you have a different citizenship policy with the Reform Party and whether this draft comes out of the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U75	The coalition agreement is a public document and it also contains clauses on citizenship. It states that the foundations of citizenship policy will not be changed. I also stressed in my report that draft 588 does not change the foundations of citizenship policy, at least in our opinion. What changes are planned to be made to the Citizenship Act during this parliamentary term, it is also possible to read about the Coalition Treaty. There were two more besides that, if I remember correctly.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U76	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U77	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I just want to clarify and confirm that we have all understood the same thing. I am thinking about a topic that Lembit Kaljuvee and Andrus Ansip asked about, apart from me, about double citizenship. Are we in complete agreement when we are talking only about Estonian citizenship at birth, which could be supplemented by other citizenship? And we are not talking about Estonian citizenship acquired by naturalisation, where double citizenship would also be allowed. We certainly wouldn't want to put forward such a bill. If this first option, this double citizenship at birth, is what you're in favour of, then maybe we could really do the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U78	Mr Randpere, I am not authorized to speak in this chair and do not want to speak here what I am in favour of. But as far as I know, allowing double citizenship for birth citizenship does not create any opposition among social democrats.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U79	Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U80	Thank you. Listening to your answers, I would like to clarify. In answering Mr Aaviksoo's question, you mentioned what could be the reasons that make it very difficult to give up citizenship. One reference was that the country was no longer in existence. By this country, did you mean the Soviet Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U81	No, absolutely not. After all, countries are still liquidating and emerging. In the case of the Soviet Union, however, there is a completely different case, and this is what our citizenship law takes into account. I certainly didn't mean the Soviet Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U82	Barbi Pilvre, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U83	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I would also like to stress that there are more and more international families in Estonia, and it would be very sensible to treat this draft as a broader one. Consideration should also be given to children who are now born in Estonia and who receive double citizenship. When they have received 18, they are very difficult to choose from, for example, Estonian or Finnish citizenship. These children have two parents, which is why they have emotional ties, but also a rational solution. I strongly recommend extending the content of this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U84	According to the Parliament's Home and Working Procedures Act, the draft cannot be extended as it concerns the amendment of § 29 of the Citizenship Act. In my opinion, in order to implement the ideas that have been discussed in this Chamber, § 1 (2) of the Citizenship Act must be amended, allowing for some extensions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U85	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U86	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I'm sorry I'm here to give examples of personal life. But my son-in-law, the father of Thomas, passed the Estonian citizenship exam. He's American. He even wanted to start formalising Estonian citizenship, but his mother and father said that the boy, if you do, would still be very sad at home. Can this bill you put forward solve his problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U87	If we are talking about double citizenship at all, we should also bear in mind that there are still countries that do not allow double citizenship. I do not know what Russia has done with the latest changes to the Citizenship Act, but Russia, as far as I am concerned, does not allow double citizenship. In the United States, these things aren't quite easy either, in Sweden. There is always a problem with the law in the other country whose citizenship the person is entitled to. Estonia can only change its laws. But by changing this section, I repeat, I don't think your grandson and son-in-law's case can be solved well. But between two readings, of course, you can think about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U88	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U89	Thank you. Good waitress! You said that one of the motives for initiating a legislative amendment was that Kohtla-Järve's girlfriend's father took the law without knowing the law of Russian citizenship to his child, too, and now there is a problem. We are trying to resolve this situation by amending the law. If a person does not know the law accurately, is it wise to change the law, or should he or she focus on raising one's awareness?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U90	First of all, as I can see from the previous reading, last year there were 23 children with this problem. That is why so many were deprived of citizenship for more or less the same reason. So this isn't really an isolated incident. Secondly, you are undoubtedly right that it should be primary to better explain the law to people. Once again, we are in a very strange situation. If the law had been clear to the parties involved, perhaps the mother would not have presented the child's Russian passport and we would not know at all about this question. But you don't have to live in two rooms all the time. We should still live in a society where the laws are clear and can also be applied in concrete terms. But this is a broader legal philosophy dispute. I have always based my parliamentary activities on the fact that even if it is one person and we can solve this one person's problem in a positive way, without harming other states or the Estonian state, the law must be amended.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U91	Tõnis Palts, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U92	Dear waitress, Do you think that the questions raised by the members of the IRL Group are going through the risk of certain additional threats to the security of a small nation state, or do you think that the members of the IRL Group want to bully the victims of individual cases?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U93	I think, Mr. Palts, you can feel both. However, as far as the security of the Estonian state is concerned, in my opinion, the situation in which the number of citizens of the Russian Federation has increased in Estonia over 20 years and has probably now exceeded 100000 borders is not very positive from the point of view of the security of the Estonian state. We should look at this issue in a broader context and analyse the security threats of the Estonian state. I do not want to stress here the fact that Russia has a mass residence in a country that will certainly not improve the security of that country.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U94	Tõnis Palts, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U95	You said you could feel both. The other half of this 'both' was that you feel that the members of the IRL Group want to bully the victims of individual cases.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U96	If the IRL did not want to vote last time and still do not want to solve this particular case humanely, then I cannot interpret it in any other way.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U97	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Rait Maruste, Chairman of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U98	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the draft on 588 twice: Tuesday, 15 April and Tuesday, 22 April. Ruth Annus, Head of the Department of Migration and Border Guard Policy of the Ministry of the Interior, was also invited to the debate in the role of Deputy Chancellor of Law and Migration Policy. We discussed this bill quite vividly and thoroughly. No one had any doubt that the problem existed and needed to be resolved, but the draft noted a number of questionable issues. This has already been said here, and it was also the observation of the Members of the Commission that the text of the draft text and the explanatory memorandum do not coincide. Secondly, we found that the draft contains a number of categories of estimates which allow enforcement officials a high degree of discretion, or discretion, when assessing, for example, the categories in which the situation is impossible, what the situation is dangerous or what is unreasonable. The Citizenship Act should generally avoid such definitions. The third thing we have observed is that the text does not only cover minors. There has also been talk about this in this hall today. The draft does not only concern persons under 18 years of age, it is wider, it covers everyone. It was also pointed out that the law was intended to enter into force retroactively since 1 April 1995. The question arises as to why they want to do so. We know, and Mrs Annus also explained, that the Ministry of the Interior is preparing a new, presumably better text, which provides for a ban on taking Estonian citizenship from people under the age of 18, which has been obtained by naturalisation. This bill is now in the coordination circle and should be in front of us soon. As a result of the discussion of the draft, such procedural decisions were taken: to put the draft on the plenary agenda on 6 May, i.e. today (this was a consensual decision); to propose that the first reading be closed (five votes against and two abstentions); to set 20 May as the deadline for amendments; and to appoint a rapporteur (these were unanimous decisions). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U99	Thank you very much. You have questions too. Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U100	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! My question comes from the Coalition Treaty and its implementation. We have stated in the coalition agreement that the foundations of citizenship policy will not be changed, and we have also written that the respective problems of minors will be solved, which, according to the idea of the draft, may seem to be done, but that is not exactly addressed in the text. How do you see the future of this draft in the light of the fact that the Ministry of the Interior has already sent one draft to the coordination circle, which will address this issue in detail? How could these drafts relate to each other?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U101	Thank you! I have not yet seen the text of this bill, which should soon be here. I have heard the comment of the Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of the Interior, Mrs Announcer and Minister of the Interior, Mr Pevkur, that they are trying to remove the shortcomings raised from the draft. Then this situation, or the situation of this particular Kohtla-Järve girl, would be resolved as well. If this text comes before us and we see the substance of this draft, then we can decide what to do next. I believe that these two things can be reconciled within this same draft or initiative.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U102	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U103	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! Since the previous speaker referred to you, I will take this opportunity to ask you the same question as he does. It's about retroactivity. Why is the bill April 1, 1995, but not 1993 or later? Please also talk about the content, because the previous speaker did not know more about the content than it says!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U104	Thank you for your question. I can't explain it either. This statement should probably be provided by the initiator of the draft, stating what the considerations and arguments were as to why this date was chosen in the case of retroactivity. We also raised this issue in the Commission sitting, but there were no quite convincing explanations, and for us this issue is still up.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U105	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U106	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the Commission. The first question is purely technical. I would like to know your opinion on how you see the right solution. The explanatory memorandum states that a person must prove that it is impossible, dangerous or unreasonable to give up the nationality of another country. Should every person handle this independently? Are there any prescriptive documents coming up, some regulation laying down which documents must be submitted to prove it? Or, for example, a decision is taken that giving up the nationality of a country is a priori linked to these conditions, and in that case a very simple document could be evidence?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U107	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. I'll close the negotiations. The lead committee has proposed to close the first reading of draft 588. A second proposal has also been received, made by the Group of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Alliance. Its content is that the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance is asking for the draft law 588 to be rejected. Let us begin with the preparation of the vote on this proposal. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica to reject the draft 588 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There are 17 members of the Riigikogu, 47 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 588. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 588 amendments. May 20th, 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the first item is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U108	Yeah, we had the same question about what it's all gonna look like. This danger, inability or unreasonable complexity should be demonstrated by the one who comes up with such an argument. However, a police and border guard may have a different understanding, which is dangerous, unreasonable or complicated. How, then, can this conflict be resolved? Is it necessary to issue a list of dangerous, complex and unreasonable things, a catalogue? All of this would make it unnecessarily difficult and also debatable. We in the Commission considered that the use of such undefined concepts in the law, citizenship law, should be avoided wherever possible. I do not know if we can do this in the new law, but I believe and hope at least that the new law will be more precise and better in this respect.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U109	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U110	Thank you. Good waitress! Do you find it unreasonable to abandon the Russian Federation's citizenship today?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U111	I don't know practical business and I don't know its moves. I've had no closer contact with it and I can't appreciate it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U112	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U113	Thank you. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group Karel Rüütli!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U114	Thank you. I would like to ask for a speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, Andrus Ansip!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U115	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In the run-up to the European Parliament elections, numerous debates have discussed more open Estonia, greater involvement, tolerance for different people and target groups, cooperation, import and export of best practices. In the light of the events in Ukraine, we must also ask ourselves whether we have provided a good home for the people who live in Estonia, whether we have been able to listen to them and find solutions to their concerns. With the draft law amending the Citizenship Act, which is in this Chamber today at first reading, we are solving a real problem that has so far prevented good Estonian citizens from maintaining their citizenship. The aim is to make the Citizenship Act a little more human at a small point without changing the principles of Estonian citizenship policy. I would like to stress once again that we want to supplement the Citizenship Act with the provision that Estonian citizenship is not taken away from persons who prove that they cannot give up the citizenship of another country for reasons beyond their control. As social democrats, we believe that in a situation where Estonia's main problem is becoming a shortage of human resources, it is in the interests of the state to link all people who care about Estonia here with Estonia and to create conditions favourable to them for the implementation of their abilities and the implementation of plans for the future. Modern and European citizenship policy is certainly one of the most important instruments contributing to achieving these objectives. The draft to be discussed would solve the problem that, in 2013, alone, the state had to take Estonian citizenship away from 90 people, including 23 minors, while these minors are studying in the Estonian education system and, due to the negligence of the state, they become aliens in their home country. Is the state sure that it wants to reject those who want to consider Estonia their home? Yesterday, the Estonian Human Rights Centre presented its annual report 'Human Rights in Estonia 2013', the authors of which also consider that citizenship policy should be updated. They are of the opinion that double citizenship should be allowed to Estonian citizens after birth, that citizenship is not automatically the basis for a conflict of loyalty, and that it should be borne in mind that Estonia is internationalising despite the Citizenship Act and children who have the citizenship of several countries can be born more and more. Nor does the Estonian Constitution preclude the admission of several citizenships to Estonian citizens. Thus, the admission or non-acceptance of several citizenships has been left to the level of the Citizenship Act, and here we want to change the law for people who cannot avoid multiple citizenships. In addition, § 8 (3) of the Constitution states that no one may be granted Estonian citizenship acquired by birth, which is therefore contrary to the Citizenship Act. As the initiator of the draft act, we are of the opinion that the situation in which a state imposes on a person the requirements that a person wishes to meet but cannot do so for reasons beyond his control is also incompatible with the principles of social and democratic rule of law laid down in § 10 of the Constitution. Moreover, since these are the rights of the child, the current Citizenship Act provides that the child is to be punished for the miscarriage of the parents and that the rights of the child are also violated. Finally. Let us ask ourselves whether we want to create understanding, confidence, and loyalty in people through our initiatives. I believe that a large majority in this hall will understand what is right, and that clinging to former dogmas is a thing of the past. Populistic slogans and drum rolls could remain part of a different regime. This change is not only in the interests of non-Estonians, but many Estonians also believe that the current regulations of the Citizenship Act are unfair. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U116	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! I argued that cases where giving up citizenship would be dangerous or unreasonablely difficult have not occurred in practice in Estonia. I assure you that during the nine years that I worked as Prime Minister, no such material was brought to the meeting of the Government, according to which anyone would have been either unreasonablely difficult or dangerous and therefore would have prevented the person from obtaining the citizenship of the Republic of Estonia. Yana Toom, speaking here, claimed that she had a known case of journalistic practice where, however, it was unreasonably difficult for anyone to give up his previous citizenship. I do not know whether this journalistic case has ever reached the Estonian state institutions and whether this case has been officially dealt with or not, but I rely on a letter from my government minister, Ken-Marti Vaher, which unambiguously states that situations in which giving up citizenship would be impossible, dangerous or unreasonable have not occurred in practice so far. This letter has also been added to the draft law of the Riigikogu, it was written on 14 March 2014 and the letter number is 1-7/40-4. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U117	Thank you. Dear waitress, thank you for your previous answer. You seem to have understood the problem in the Commission. My next question is more general. How did this debate take place in the Commission? In fact, we are discussing the problem of specific children and specific people, but there have been general political problems in this Chamber for an hour, and the minimum is about what is the subject. Was there a constructive debate in the Commission, or did it also go into such a political conversation?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U118	Thank you. We are not quite involved in political lobbying; we were still talking about this specific draft. That's what I think. We remained within the scope of this problem, but just as any draft is a certain precedent for the draft, a step in a certain direction, and so we touched a little bit on the broader context that was reflected back today through questions in this Chamber. In principle, however, we remained within the framework of this draft. We tried to make sense of how the draft would resolve this particular situation, which was the driving force behind this initiative.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U119	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U120	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You are a person with very great European experience, and you are familiar and familiar with many of the rules and frameworks of citizenship policy. How do you think that the Estonian state in a united family of the European Union has reached the point that citizenship policy should change?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U121	I make a little reservation that I don't consider myself a specialist and an expert on citizenship, but I've come across this subject. The first thing I want to say is that citizenship is not a right, it is a privilege, it is not a right under the European Convention on Human Rights that can be demanded, for example, through a court. This is a privilege that each Member State decides on the conditions for granting, although some parameters have been developed on the basis of which it should take its own decisions. I would like to reiterate here that, on several occasions, we will be confused if we are even told about things. Citizenship is obtained in three ways. One is ancestral, postpartum or blood-derived citizenship (ius sanguinis). He who is born of a citizen of one country will also become a citizen of that country. The second is ius soli, or birthright. If you are born in France, you are automatically a citizen of a French state. Several countries use this system. The third is naturalization. There are certain conditions, you live in the territory of that country for a while, you take some exams or you meet language requirements, and then you get the privilege of being a citizen of that country. These things need to be distinguished. The basic principle of the citizenship policy of the Estonian state is precisely this succession, i.e. citizenship created on a parentage basis. If we are talking about double citizenship, which we would need to legalise for several reasons, it would specifically concern the citizenship of the birth, i.e. the situations arising from parentage, and would not concern naturalisation or citizenship derived from the place of birth.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U122	Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U123	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable speaker! My question is this: if a country refuses to give up citizenship, what happens then? For example, if the Russian Federation refuses to release its citizen from citizenship, how should the Estonian state behave?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U124	It's hard for me to say. Everything depends specifically on the situation in which the person is concerned, etc. It's not like we can impose any kind of coercion on another country. If he thinks he's a citizen, he thinks he's a citizen, and it's impossible for another country to force him to exclude someone from his citizenship. They don't do that. If the state thinks that it will not let anyone out of its citizenship, then that is the sovereign decision of that country, which must be accepted, to adapt its behaviour to the circumstances. What exactly is this behavior, I cannot comment on it, it depends on the circumstances.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U125	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Dear colleagues, do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? There's a request. I open negotiations and ask for a speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Group of the Estonian Central Party, Yana Toomi!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U126	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, I have some comments about what sounded like on the remote. First of all, it was argued that there was no such case, as said by Mr Ansip, if I am not wrong, where it would be very difficult for an adult to give up citizenship. It's not true, there have been cases. When I was still working as a journalist, about seven or eight years ago, we wrote a long story about a woman who had been granted Georgian citizenship. He lived here, but when there were very confusing times in Georgia, there was a civil war, then, miraculously, citizenship was divided left and right without the human being asking for it. At the time, the Estonian state had a great desire to deport this lady to Tbilisi, because she was allegedly a Georgian citizen. He didn't get rid of that citizenship in any way, and I don't think he's gotten rid of it so far. From that side of the hall there was also the question of how difficult it will be to give up Russian citizenship. I guess I'm the only one who's ever done it in this hall. In 2006, the Estonian Government, led by Mr Ansip, thanked him very much for the services of citizenship. This was in 2006, but I received the Estonian passport at the beginning of 2009. The correspondence was insanely long, nothing unreasonable, but it took more than two years. I had to send letters saying that I did not owe the Russian Federation taxes, etc. But in the case of a child, that's out of the question. According to Russian law, a child cannot give up his or her citizenship alone without his or her parents. I mean, if the parent goes to Estonian citizenship, then he can do it with the child; this is not possible in any other way. It made me think very deeply about this understanding of the security threats that are constantly coming from the lines of the IRL Group. We can, of course, speculate on whether or not we are similar to Crimea. I'm saying it's not, but it's good to beat a drum like that before the election. But a few days ago, the press conference was, I think, even organised by the Institute of Human Rights, where we talked about security threats and said something quite the opposite. In particular, Mr Kari Käsper claims that our citizenship policy is out of date and should be reviewed. In every draft concerning citizenship policy, we always have one sentence: 'This draft does not change the foundations of citizenship policy. ' That's great, but it's probably necessary to change it. In today's debate, we have come to the conclusion that we have more than 100,000 people with double citizenship, because the citizen at birth has the sort of factual right to have double citizenship. The naturalisation of citizenship does not have that right, and that is actually what divides our citizens into 'first and second' citizens, which is not quite right. Mr Maruse said a very strange thing about this remote unit that citizenship is not right, it is a privilege. I'm really sorry, but there's no way you're gonna have that confidence with a child. I went to a debate on integration policy in Tartu a few weeks ago, where Mr Mikhail Lotman and historian David Vseviov were also present. Somehow the topic of citizenship went on again, and the moderator asked me why my child did not want to make an effort to gain Estonian citizenship. I have a child, by the way, a non-citizen. I asked the moderator how he worked hard. The answer was that he did not exert himself; he was born with Estonian citizenship. But these children are also born in the independent Republic of Estonia, so why are we treating them like this? It's not fair. At this point, I would like to thank Mr Jaak Allik very much for his honour and praise for his courage to come out with this bill. This is very difficult and I know that it is very difficult especially for an Estonian because I can imagine how he will now be stamped everywhere. But this compromise, which we seem to be achieving here, is so small, so insignificant, and it is very unfortunate. In fact, I repeat once again, it is time for us to review the foundations of this citizenship policy, because it is the security of the state that is when there are people of citizenship here, not without it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U127	Thank you. I would like to ask Ken-Marti Vaheri, representative of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union Group, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U128	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! This bill will certainly change the fundamentals of Estonian citizenship policy. The Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance does not agree with this approach. There are quite a number of problems with this draft as a whole, which have been partly highlighted here by the representative of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Firstly, the content of the draft and the explanatory memorandum are actually quite different topics. The subject of minors, which is extensively addressed in the explanatory memorandum, is far from central when we read the text of this draft. The text of the draft proposal is substantially broader and is actually seeking to change the principles of citizenship policy to a significant extent, also retroactively, since 1 April 1995. Secondly, it is trying to make us, like here, probably in the round of questions and answers, essentially hostage to the citizenship policy of another country, the Russian Federation, which also makes no sense. If Russia changes its citizenship policy, it is certainly not the basis on which the Estonian legislator should make changes to its citizenship policy. This draft, however, unfortunately, wants to bring such a trend into legislation. One of the serious problems is the fact that the essence of the matter is to put children whose parents have behaved legally in a worse position than children whose parents have behaved illegally and have obtained citizenship of the Russian Federation in addition to Estonian citizenship. This, however, is a basically absurd approach to the rule of law. The Estonian state has taken significant steps over the last 20 years to reduce the number of persons of undefined citizenship in Estonia, and today their number has fallen to 90000. In the case of minors, there is virtually no condition other than that children must be born in Estonia. So many steps have been taken, the application for Estonian citizenship for these children has been made as flexible as possible. To refer here to the fact that parents were unaware of the fact that they took up the child's citizenship, for example, in the Russian Federation, is not quite right. I think that a departure from one principle of citizenship policy will lead to very serious problems in the security policy aspect. If we read in the explanatory memorandum that the state should be humane and flexible, then in today's Estonian country we have actually seen it. In the same Kohtla-Järve case, which is highlighted in the draft proceedings, the Estonian state has done everything to give the parent the opportunity to apply for Estonian citizenship. To this end, it has been contacted, confirmed that the parent is interested in applying for Estonian citizenship, has started to study Estonian. I think that this flexible and rational attitude by the state, too, is what we have foreseen for citizenship policy. We direct persons with undefined citizenship to apply for Estonian citizenship, not give them the opposite signal. Unfortunately, this bill sends the opposite signal, wants to give a signal to illegally acting parents that double citizenship is allowed for their child, whereas those parents who represent their child have not gained another nationality are in a worse position. This approach is not inherent in the rule of law. You can also say that there is a lot of talk here about the rights of the child. Inevitably, however, the representative of a minor child in various proceedings in the country is a parent. If a parent takes an informed step and applies for citizenship of another country in opposition to the laws of the Estonian state, then it is a clear, informed choice that can be reversed later. We have taken a number of decisions in the government to restore citizenship both in previous years and this year. These are the very few cases in which the child has later decided that he or she really wants to retain Estonian citizenship and has made this decision consciously when he or she is 18 years old. To sum up, this draft seeks to highlight the problem of a minor, the issue of a child of undefined nationality, while the content of the draft seeks to regulate a much wider issue. Unfortunately, the draft does not solve any problems, but creates more problems, changes the foundations of Estonian citizenship policy quite in principle and will also do so retroactively, since 1 April 1995. Consequently, this draft is not supported by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance. We also did not support it in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we proposed not to stop reading the first reading and to reject the draft. I will repeat this proposal now in the Chamber: we ask you not to stop reading the first 588 of the draft law. Thanks!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U129	We will move on to the second item, which is the first reading of the Act amending the Act on the Election of the Local Government Council and the Act on the Election of the Riigikogu, initiated by Andres Herkel, member of the Riigikogu. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu by Andres Herkel, member of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U130	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This may be a relatively small change in our electoral rights, but I think it speaks a lot. In particular, it is said that in our political system we have gone too far in the direction of restraint and prohibition, not in the direction of flexibility and freedom. The content of the bill, the admission of political parties' electoral alliances at local level, as well as the elections to the Riigikogu, is understandable. I would like to mention at this point that the wording of this really backward amendment proved to be a little more complicated than I had thought at the beginning, which, in turn, probably speaks of the fact that we have gone down the road of overregulation. When initiating this draft, there were two of us, also Juku-Kalle Raid was a member of the Riigikogu at the time, unfortunately there is no longer a view or knowledge that if the four political parties represented in the Riigikogu are reconsidering today and decide to support this draft, then there are obviously still a few questions to be examined between the first reading and the second reading. In particular, how to resolve funding issues in Riigikogu elections if there are political parties' electoral alliances. This obviously requires changes in the law of the party. Secondly, the question of how political groups are formed. This requires a review of our Home and Working Procedures Act. Perhaps there are many changes that need to be made in itself to reverse a simple matter. One terminological note. In recent times, say, over the last ten years, we have established the term 'election union' primarily in connection with local elections and within the meaning of the citizens' electoral union. It may be pointed out that there was not much talk about the electoral union until the mid-1990s, it was much easier than it is now. But in its classical and international sense, the electoral union is still a union of political forces, especially political parties. Consequently, the draft also distinguishes between two variants of the electoral union in terms of terminology. One is the local electoral union, the citizens' electoral union, the old common name, and the other is the political party electoral union. A little international practice about how other countries do it. As I mentioned, we have gone down the road of siege. Looking at the practice of European Union countries, this is generally rare. The inquiry into the network of parliamentary servants connecting European countries reveals the fact that the request has been made a few years ago, so that, just as in Estonia, electoral associations are banned in parliamentary elections in Denmark, France and Luxembourg, so in three countries. In Sweden and Germany electoral alliances are essentially prohibited, i.e. according to the law, a political party may set up candidates in the general elections. There are no data on Croatia and Slovenia from the 28 countries of the European Union, while electoral alliances are allowed in the rest of the Member States. Some countries have specific rules, such as Slovakia, for example, the threshold for access to parliament in electoral alliances is higher than on party lists. In Austria, electoral alliances function under the name of a special campaign union, which means that the electoral union is formed on the basis of the promises and programme of the campaign, and, if formulated, a common list can be provided. I also point out here that, in general, in those countries where only lists of political parties are allowed in parliamentary elections, and there are just a few in the European Union, the formation of a political party is very easy. The only country of these, which refers to a restriction on members or grant signatures, is Sweden, where 1500 grant signatures are expected to form a political party, not a member, but a grant signature. So this reference material confirms my original starting point that we have gone on the path of excessive restraint and that we could move back towards greater flexibility. The opinion of the Government of the Republic does not contain very compelling reasons for me why it would not be right to make this change, except that it turned out that it has been the will of several Riigikogus to establish rigid rules. Yes, unfortunately, yes, and that is how we have moved towards too much rigidity. The remaining arguments, which take into account that only 3% or 6% of the votes in the local elections were received by the political parties' electoral federations when they existed, are not very substantive. Even if their supporters were relatively few, this cannot be an argument for banning political parties' electoral alliances. There is also the position of the Constitutional Review College of the Supreme Court since 2002 when local electoral associations were disputed as such. The College pointed out that, yes, the attempt to ban local electoral alliances was, and would probably also now be highly constitutionally questionable, and then it was rejected. The College did not find the same in the case of political parties' electoral alliances, indicating that there is no constitutionality problem there. However, this argument or argument does not say anything about rationality. We could move towards greater flexibility based on expediency. Finally. I am of the opinion, and it is also mentioned in the explanatory memorandum to the bill that, in principle, citizens' electoral alliances could also be allowed in Riigikogu elections. There is no amendment to the draft text, but I think that this would be the right direction. It is likely to be used as a last resort if political parties, for some reason, no longer generate trust in voters or have somehow run into a deadlock and new solutions are needed. This possibility could exist and, in this case, it could be assumed that a number of supporting signatures would be collected, which should certainly be more than is necessary to form a political party. As far as the necessary membership is concerned at all, I have come to the conclusion, by examining these matters, that this is one of the measures generally used in the countries of Eastern Europe, the post-communist countries, which old democracies do not know. But I don't think this is so much about the context of this bill anymore. The content of the draft should be passed on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U131	Thank you. You have questions too. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U132	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Why do you not want to allow political parties' electoral alliances to have a short name? There may be a situation that the President of the sitting must come before us after a while with the words: 'And now I will give the floor to the Right-wing Estonian Party on Gender Equality, the Estonian Party of Fast Democrats, the Karksi-Nuia Right-wing Socialist Party, the Community Party of the Christians and Atheists Union, and Prefer Estonia to the Association of the Karskians Party. " And then, for example, will name your name. Isn't that too much trouble? Why don't we put a short name, stamp it off, and then at least the speed of work would be as fast as possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U133	Thank you, Mr. Stalnukhin! If you wish, you can also initiate the name of the Centre Party so long that we will read it here two or three minutes in advance. However, as far as the electoral alliances are concerned, the content of such a case, if allowed, must be unambiguous. This means that the party that is a member of the electoral union cannot submit its list at the same time, cannot belong to several electoral alliances at the same time, and the names of the parties must be clearly indicated in the names of the electoral union. In the local elections, we have encountered a rather different problem. I remember when this restriction came up and two parties wanted to make electoral alliances in one of Estonia's not very small municipalities, they were struggling with the refusal to register the names of both of them, which were neither too long, and they had to hide something there. However, if a number of political parties join in elections to the Riigikogu and register a political group, it is probably possible to use some shorter version of the political group. I do not see such a big problem in this, it is such a slightly spiteful problem, Mr Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U134	Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U135	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Let me get this straight. The point of this initiative is that the parties are bad, but the parties participating in the electoral union are like good.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U136	Thank you for your question. No, that's definitely not the idea. This attitude, which has spread here, began somewhere in the early zeros when we discussed the abolition of electoral alliances at local level and the Chancellor of Justice Jõks intervened in this debate. The attitude that electoral alliances are from the devil, or vice versa, that parties, if they have done something wrong, are definitely not adequate and are not going to take our political culture any further. The purpose of this draft is to extend the freedom and rights of political parties as well as the right to political association.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U137	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U138	Thank you. Honourable waitress! The draft you submitted concerns only the elections of local governments and the Riigikogu. Do you consider an analogous approach to elections to the European Parliament necessary? As we know, the Reform Party and the Centre Party are currently part of a political family within the European Parliament, but they must play a game on their own policy as if it were two different world views. The voter still has the misleading impression that there are two different worldviews. The Reform Party and the Centre Party do not have the opportunity to go out together in the elections and the voters do not have the opportunity to choose them together. Your amendment would provide clarity and opportunity in this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U139	Thank you. I have to admit, when we started this bill, we even thought about it for a second. However, as Estonia has only six representatives in the European Parliament elections and these elections are so concentrated, this did not seem to be such a acute problem. But Mr Seeder will, of course, be able to table an amendment to that effect when we finish the first reading, and I promise that this could be considered. The note that was made is correct in itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U140	Andrus Ansip, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U141	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I would like to continue with the question of Erki Arrow. You have been quite critical of political parties in your recent performances. If political parties have the right to join the electoral alliances, will your attitude to the political parties be gentle?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U142	Thank you. I do not think I have been critical of political parties as such. I am critical of the established cartel system of political parties and the system of financing political parties in Estonia. Four political parties have essentially become state parties, and it is relatively difficult to build something else along with it. I do not think that this change will affect my attitude on this issue, and this attitude is far from as negative as it seems to you. This change will simply provide more variation and more opportunities in the political landscape. If it is possible to choose between limitations and the number of possibilities, then I always prefer the latter.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U143	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U144	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I am asking about political responsibility after the elections. If the four political parties form an electoral alliance and go to elections together, how do I figure out who screwed this up as a voter after the election? Even now, I find it hard to understand who's behind this mess that 25 million road money is being cut off, either the Reform Party or the Social Democrats. How am I supposed to know who's screwed up as a voter?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U145	Thank you. As a voter, you are obviously looking for responsibility in the middle of the political power you have chosen. Political parties can have exactly the same political groups and different trends. It's a question of the voter's intellect. I suggest you choose the ones you're sure of. But many people have also tried to do this and have been disappointed, it is true.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U146	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U147	Thank you. Good colleague! Each party has its own statute and the electoral alliances of the parties put the voters in a difficult position. Local problems remain in the background somewhere, and I have to essentially choose which kind of world-view team to vote for. Don't you think this is a difficult story for the voter?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U148	Thank you. I do think that the story is difficult for the electorate when, in relatively small municipalities, where public utility problems are mostly solved, the political landscape is being rebuilt in such a way that there are political parties outside, which, as it were, should be ideological. In reality, however, we see that these combinations are often not ideological on the ground, but are practical as a result of who is currently in power, who has been recruited. And at all, ten years ago, when it was a campaign to ban local electoral alliances, local leaders probably felt that they needed some kind of roof, and four state parties have now offered it well. But I'm sorry, what was the question?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U149	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U150	Thank you. Good waitress! This draft will encourage political party-to-party agreements, for which you have used a lot of the term 'chartering'. You mentioned here, for example, that the Reform Party and the Centre Party could make a common list. But then the cartel in Estonia gets worse. How do you comment on that? Do you agree that this bill will lead to more cartels in Estonia if adopted?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U151	Thank you. No, I think you've got it all wrong. This phenomenon of cartels relates in particular to the financing of political parties and the artificial constraints imposed on the emergence of new political forces. The idea that this will somehow contribute to the cartel if political parties enter into agreements before the elections is relatively unexpected to me. I don't really get it. Rather, it is that in Estonia the electoral alliances created at local level tend to disintegrate and the local governments often go, I apologise for the expression, Jaskar, that someone agrees with someone differently, some mayor is overthrown and a new combination is created. On the contrary, perhaps if such alliances are formed before the elections, they will make them somewhat more permanent and provide more stability at local level.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U152	Andrus Ansip, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U153	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! From Eurobarometer surveys, we know that the credibility of the Estonian state institutions is considerably higher than the average in the European Union. For example, the credibility of the government in Estonia is in the eighth place in the European Union. We also know from Eurobarometer surveys that Sweden, Denmark and Luxembourg have the highest credibility of the institutions in the European Union. Your report revealed that in these three countries it is not allowed to form electoral alliances for political parties. Perhaps it is precisely those countries where the credibility of the institutions is great that should be guided, and not those where it is smaller? Do you not think that the electoral alliances formed by political parties will reduce the specific responsibility of political parties?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U154	Thank you. There is a point in this last question. This connection, in itself, with regard to countries where such electoral alliances are permitted and prohibited and the Eurobarometer survey, seems to me to be arbitrary. As I said, in those countries where electoral alliances are banned, the formation of political parties has been made very easy, so it is likely that their accession processes will also be very simple, etc. Yes, the question of responsibility is, of course, to a certain extent. But it seems to me that we have gone a little too far with them about 15 years ago when we chose the route of more rigid regulations and restrictions. After all, there is also the question of liability for parties that have placed themselves in such a monopoly. And, after all, in some sense, the politician also has a personal responsibility. I think that voters must be able to measure freely, in the context of political parties' electoral union, local electoral union and political party, how these communities operate. It cannot be ruled out that one decent electoral union of political parties will be a much more active association than one of the parties. To give examples of history, KMU fell apart, and when the Fatherland and the ERSP joined, they originally formed a political party election union. There are apparently quite a variety of examples of clear responsibilities and future developments.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U155	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U156	Thank you. Good waitress! I'll continue with my last question. I do not fully understand how you can separate the issue of funding and other policy issues from the consequences of this bill becoming a law. It is known that if this bill becomes a law, there will be joint election campaigns, they will be jointly funded. The subsequent joint state funding also depends on the election result of the electoral union; they are very closely linked. This means unambiguously, for example, more agreement between parliamentary parties and more cartel than using your word.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U157	Thank you. I can now understand the question being raised, and maybe last time I answered it, I was thinking more about the local alliances. At the elections of the Riigikogu, I do not see this danger now, because the four political parties represented here remained at least in the Constitutional Committee's view that they do not support this bill, and I do not see any willingness or interest in them to form an electoral alliance with anyone. The question is still rather that there are political parties in Estonia besides them, and the current system is that if they have not had any luck once or twice in the elections, they no longer exist. It could certainly be useful for them to form some sort of electoral alliance.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U158	Tatiana Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U159	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable speaker! You said that there are currently four state parties in Estonia. Considering the number of Estonian citizens, how many state parties would Estonia's political landscape be optimal to preserve democracy? Do you have any examples from European countries of how many political parties there are in one country or another?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U160	In order to preserve and develop democracy, we need citizens' parties, not state parties, that is the point of my distinction. Estonia has gone too far on the road that our political parties are no longer citizens' parties, but state parties. It is precisely the issue of funding that determines this most clearly. This development is most evident in the fact that these parties with a relatively large number of members are unable to collect a membership fee, which is strange. I hope that, in the democratic countries of the European Union, this kind of state party has not gone too far. Rather, in some countries of transition democracy, the term 'administration party' is used, which is precisely such a party built up and down vertically, based on an administrative resource and managed up to the division of posts. Now, this development is dangerous, we need citizens' parties.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U161	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U162	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable and deeply respected waitress! Personally, I believe that every man must be responsible for his own words and, if necessary, explain them. Sometimes an additional question that helps a person to explain his or her thinking can be in support of his or her idea or vice versa. When you answered my first question, you said to me that I could initiate an extension of the name of the Centre Party at any time. In order to understand what level of specialist you are, please explain how a member of a political party can initiate a change in the name of his party, how could this be his initiative? Those words came out of your mouth, and I ask for an explanation!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U163	Thank you, Mr. Stalnukhin! I am used to living communities where members of political power or society can always make their proposals. I don't know exactly how it works at the Centre Party, but you can turn to the board. It turned out that you tried to ridicule the addition of names and the formation of long names, giving an example. You may also propose to include epithetes in the name of the Centre Party, for example, to contact Edgar Savisaar and ask if he or she agrees or disagrees.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U164	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U165	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I think you've been very critical of political parties lately, too. Today, you have spoken of state parties and cartel parties, though there is a lot of money, little membership, too many members, etc. I had this really personal question about it. Since you've recently created a party yourself, how are you doing with this party? Will the membership fee be received and will you start making an election union with someone when the bill receives support? Tell me about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U166	Thanks for asking. This does not concern the draft under discussion, but the receipt of the membership fee and the share of the membership fee in carrying out the activities are certainly higher in size than in your party.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U167	Thank you. No further questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U168	Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U169	Rein Lang, member of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U170	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, My task is to give you an overview of what took place in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs when discussing this draft. The Constitutional Commission discussed the draft submitted by Andres Herkel on 22 April. The members of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Association did not attend this session, which maybe also include their current questions. This party was probably not familiar with the reasoning of the initiator. Andres Herkel spoke more or less in the Commission what he said here today in the saalisk, perhaps with the difference that he said in the Commission that he also had an overview of the admission of electoral alliances in the countries of the European Union. He did not present it at the committee meeting, but this material came to the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs a few days ago. If other Members have an interest in this, Andres Herkel could send the material, which he introduced today in this Chamber. The opinion of the Government of the Republic was transmitted by Ms Kärsten from the Ministry of Justice, who stated that the Government of the Republic did not support the draft. In fact, in the view of the government of legislation for the last ten years, it is clear that it is more likely to move towards party-centred elections and thus strengthen political responsibility for political parties. The representative of the Government explained that the Government of the Republic sees important practical problems in allowing political party electoral alliances. Although the authors of the draft have pointed out in the explanatory memorandum that political parties' electoral alliances are needed in cases where political parties would like to join, but are not yet ripe for this, the government believes that the grotesque situation will arise where the question arises as to how the immature political forces will go together to the elections. The representative of the government also noted that the authors of the draft had neglected that the formation of electoral alliances for political parties poses a significant risk to the transparency of the funding of political parties. He also pointed out that the explanatory memorandum did not sufficiently explain how the current monitoring of political parties could be extended to such electoral alliances. The Commission had also invited a representative of the Election Commission of the Republic to its meeting. Arne Koitmäe, representing the Election Commission of the Republic, said that their work does not depend on whether it is one way or the other; they can also carry out the elections in a situation where electoral alliances would be allowed. So they didn't have any pros or cons. This was followed by a small discussion. Rait Maruste asked what the good thing about this whole thing would happen if the parties' electoral alliances were allowed to go along with it. Andres Herkel, on behalf of the initiators, announced that it would add to a single degree of freedom, all of which would increase flexibility, freedoms and opportunities in politics should be desirable. Rait Maruste said that if two political parties want to go to elections with a coordinated policy and a united force, there are no legal obstacles to this right now. The speaker expressed the opinion that the most marked practice of the electoral alliances is known from history: since 1992 the electoral alliance Isamaa, consisting of the Fatherland and the ERSP of several political parties, which fell apart during the parliamentary term, and KMU, which already created separate political groups in Parliament after the elections. In both cases, it was the collapse of electoral alliances and the disappointment of voters in their activities. Rather, it does not support the positive image that the initiators want to create with this draft. Indrek Saar asked whether, in those countries where political parties' electoral alliances are allowed, the whole political system would not move towards the two-party system. On this point, the initiator's representative said that, in his view, this is not the case, rather the two-party system could arise where the electoral system would become major. There was no further discussion in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the parties' views on the draft were clear. It was said in this Chamber that the four parliamentary parties did not support this draft in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but it would be more correct to say that three did not support it, because the representatives of one party were not present. The procedural decisions were as follows: A draft was proposed for the plenary session on 6 May, i.e. today's agenda. This proposal was supported by consensus. It was decided to appoint Rein Lang as rapporteur, i.e. I, it was also a consensual decision. The vote then took place. In favour of the proposal to reject this draft at first reading, there were three members of the Riigikogu present, one against, i.e. there was no representative of the initiators and no abstentions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U171	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Mikhail Stalnukhini, representative of the Estonian Central Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair of Speech!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U172	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Group of the Estonian Centre Party supports the Commission's decision, but the Group allowed me to come here with a remote control to tell you a few fun stories. There was, in fact, one discussion that touched on the Centre Party and the Reform Party and our presence in the Liberal Group of the European Parliament. I'd like to remind the questioner, Mr. Kisler, of a date like 18 January 2004. If memory doesn't fool me, then you were a member of Res Publica, then the Fatherland Alliance and Res Publica were still separate. Why are we talking about January 18, 2004? Because on that day, the Council of the Fatherland Union met and accepted an appeal to the Estonian people, where he spoke about Res Publica, the dictatorship of the party in power, about the threats to Estonian democracy related to the party Res Publica, etc. Very interesting statement, I suggest you recall, 18 January 2004. It didn't stop you from joining. In a very short time, you were together, the same people who had been calling each other names. The story was even more interesting during the 2009 local elections. I looked at the IRL website once, and the first thing I noticed was a proposal to meet the IRL candidates at the local elections. I clicked, a letter came in that you can get acquainted with the IRL candidates and regional and regional organisations. I clicked one more time to see what was proposed in Narva. Oh, my God, what I saw first! Well, it wasn't the first name, the first was Jelena Abramova, but the second was Gennadi Afanasjev, who was the vice-president of the Russian Party in Estonia at exactly that time. This means that the IRL had signed up to be the vice-chairman of the Russian Party in Estonia as its candidate on its official website. So if you guys are gonna talk about some principles here, you better remember what you've done before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-06_U173	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The position of the commission is to reject draft 607 at first reading. Let us begin with the preparation of the vote on this proposal. Dear colleagues, I am voting to reject the draft proposal of the lead committee at first reading 607. Please take a stand and vote. There are 48 members of the Riigikogu, one against, no abstentions. Draft 607 has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the procedure. Dear colleagues, the second item has been dealt with. Today's trial is over. I thank you and wish you the strength of your work! Closure of the sitting at 12.10.
