ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U1	Honourable Riigikogu, please pay attention! I am prepared to accept inquiries and drafts on behalf of the Bureau. On behalf of the Government of the Republic, the speaker is Heili Tõnisson. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U2	Mr. Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching four draft laws today. First, the draft law amending the pre-school child institution law. Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Education and Science, will represent the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of this bill in the Riigikogu. Secondly, the draft law amending the Food Act. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by the Minister of Agriculture Ivari Padar. Thirdly, the draft law amending the Income Tax Act. Fourthly, the draft law amending the VAT Act. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi when these two draft laws are processed in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U3	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U4	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Centre Party Group, I have the honour to hand over the draft law amending the Citizenship Act. Why are we filing this bill? Because we read the coalition agreement carefully. We very much welcome the Coalition's agreement that certain requirements in the Citizenship Act will be relaxed. Since our ladies and gentlemen and former opposition partners, the Social Democrats, have supported this draft earlier, we are now making a second attempt. This draft concerns two paragraphs. We know that the coalition agreement provides for the possibility of giving citizenship to children whose parents are both people of the grey passport by a simplified procedure. However, there was one issue that we argued about in this Chamber for a long time last year. Indeed, we also have families where one parent has a grey passport and the other is a Russian citizen. This means that a child born in this family automatically becomes a Russian citizen after birth. So we give about 300 babies to the Russian Federation every year. Why we're doing this is not a good idea. It would also make sense to give these children Estonian citizenship if they were born in Estonia. The second point in the draft is that we still want to free those people who are older than 65 years of age from a language exam. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U5	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U6	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I have two inquiries from six members of the Riigikogu. These enquiries are identical. But since, in the meantime, two ministers have taken action in the Ministry of Social Affairs, both of whom are concerned by the issue of questioning, we found it probably right not to subjectively choose which minister to question, but to give both of us the opportunity to come here and express our position, all the more so as ministers represent different political parties. The subject concerns young children, those who, under current law, do not have to be taken to a doctor on a compulsory basis. Therefore, regrettable news has occasionally come about that the newborn has been left without medical attention or has been given it too late. The bill, which provided that the obligation to show to a family doctor would be linked to receiving parental pay, has also been here in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. This was under discussion at the time of the previous government, which supported this draft in a lukewarm way rather than at all. However, since we expect the Social Democrats to think more about this, we expect that the questioning will also lead to the action of the Minister and the problem will be resolved, and that the news about children who have not been assisted should not be heard so often in the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U7	I have adopted five drafts on behalf of the Bureau. The Bureau shall decide on their adoption in accordance with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. I have also adopted two enquiries which I hope will comply with the provisions of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act and will be forwarded to the addressee without delay. We're gonna do a presence check. There are currently 86 members of the Riigikogu, missing 15. First, we need to confirm the weekly agenda. The board has no details here. I shall put to the vote the adoption of the weekly agenda. Please take a stand and vote. There are 80 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the adoption of the agenda, one abstention, no one against. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U8	They're answering a question today. Members of the Riigikogu Mikhail Stalnukhin, Tarmo Tamm, Marika Tuus-Laul, Lauri Laasi, Kalev Kallo and Viktor Vassilyev submitted an inquiry on 5 March on the allocation of funds for the storage of extra-loaded local roads. This is answered by Urve Palo, Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications. On behalf of the heirs, please speak to Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U9	Mr. Chairman! We have turned to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications for a draft of the Government's order to approve the allocation of funds allocated by municipality units for the "saving of local roads used in public" in 2014, which is currently no longer a draft. According to the draft, it was planned to allocate EUR 155550 to Narva for the renovation of Linda and Malmi streets. Due to the Narva City Government's reply of 18 December 2013, the city of Narva needs approximately EUR 5 million to clean up the streets used as transit routes. According to Section 2.2 of the Guide "Conditions and procedures for applying for support for local roads with additional load' drawn up by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the proposed allocation to the municipality may be up to EUR 600000. By letter dated 15 January, the City of Narva confirmed its agreement to a 15% share of the own contribution, thereby meeting all the conditions set out. Narva hoped to receive maximum support from the state, as these are roads that ensure that there is a transit between the Republic of Estonia and the Russian Federation and other countries to the east of us.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U10	It's okay to go on.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I still have to wait until the important gentlemen and ladies of the coalition finish their stories, until I can continue. According to this draft, less than Narva will receive targeted financing related to transit traffic or other extra load on local roads, but only EUR 71000 in Hiiu municipality. Narva does not question the need of other municipalities for these funds (e.g. Võru City receives EUR 600000, own contribution 11%, Jõhvi Municipality receives EUR 576900, own contribution 10%). However, such a distribution that only two small streets, Malm and Linda Streets, can be organized for this money in Narva, without overlooking the Tallinn road running directly through the city, is disproportionate, unfair and detrimental to the Estonian economy. On this basis, we will ask the Minister three questions. I hope that the Minister himself will read the questions in order to save time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U12	Thank you. Urve Palo, Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U13	Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will answer three questions from the Centre Party. The first question: 'Following the grant as a direct grant, 15 municipalities applied. Who and on what basis did the municipalities receive targeted financing for transit traffic or other additional burdens on local roads? What amount was requested by the municipalities mentioned above? " The Government of the Republic had a total of 28071300 euros to support the deposit of publicly used local roads. In order to determine the distribution of funds by local government units, the Government of the Republic has been given a wide discretion on the basis of Article 16 (4) of the Tea Act. The majority of the resources allocated to support the storage of local roads are distributed among municipalities in accordance with principles agreed with the local government associations. In 2014, the resources allocated according to principles agreed with the local governments amounted to 88% of the amount allocated to the state budget. Thus, the government exercised its discretion to allocate around 10% (about EUR 3 million). This money was allocated on a project-based basis for the storage of local roads for municipalities which, in addition to local traffic, have transit traffic or some other traffic which generates additional costs. The determination of the volume of the fund was based on the general principle, both this year and last year, that the Government of the Republic must, as far as possible, rely on the joint proposal of the local governments on the allocation of additional road maintenance payments to local authorities in order to realise the wide margin of discretion conferred by the Road Act. The possibility of applying for project-based support was notified to the local government associations, which were asked to inform their members that municipalities that incur additional traffic costs could apply for a targeted financing. A guide prepared by the Road Service of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications in 2013 was also forwarded to the local government associations to propose the conditions and procedures for applying for local road support with additional load to the Government of the Republic. Local authorities requested project-based support to finance 22 road sites for a total amount of EUR 917802, while the volume of the dedicated fund set up was limited to approximately EUR 3 million. As a result, only one third of the applications submitted could be accepted and applications for more than EUR 6 million were rejected. In preparing the draft order of the Government of the Republic, the Road Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications considered the applications received on the basis of the criteria set out in the guide sent to the local government associations. The most important criterion was the link between the additional traffic and the rest of the road network. On the basis of this, the sites related to the TEN-T trans-European road network or leading to an important national object, such as the important border crossing point, were first supported. The following criteria were then assessed in conjunction with the following criteria: the link between additional traffic and the rest of the road network, the traffic frequency of the additional traffic and the possibility of bypassing. It was decided to support objects that are more important according to these criteria, and the principle of providing support to one object in one municipality was taken into account. When several applications were submitted from the municipality, a selection of the sites was made. For example, Narva submitted several applications. The allocation of grants is more detailed in the order of the Government of the Republic. The second question: 'How true is the information obtained informally from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications that the distribution of such funds is due to next year's Riigikogu elections? ' As a minister of the new government, I find it difficult to comment on the reasons behind the decisions of the previous government, but project-based applications were separated by the Government of the Republic's order already last year, this is not the procedure established for the year before the elections. In addition, I would point out that the government of the Republic is governed by the rules of Estonian administrative law. This means that it is a motivated administrative decision that can be challenged before an administrative court, if the party concerned considers that the decision of the Government of the Republic is unfair and contrary to the law. More detailed explanations and reasons as to how the Riigikogu allocated funds for local roads are distributed are given in the Government of the Republic on 10 March. a in order No 82 "According to the allocation of funds allocated for the storage of local public roads by municipality units in 2014'. The last question: 'Do you personally consider it fair that the roads of the city of Narva, which guarantee the transit economy of the Republic of Estonia with the Russian Federation, receive very modest support? ' Personally, I am very pleased that at least part of Narva's application was accepted, although it was not found possible to grant applications from a number of municipalities with a total amount of more than EUR 6 million. In any case, Narva was among the third who received additional resources. I therefore find it somewhat incomprehensible to the dissatisfaction of the heirs. If the Government of the Republic had not set up a Trust Fund, Narva would not have received any additional support. I would remind you that already earlier, 319411 euros were allocated to Narva to support the storage of local roads on an equal basis with other local authorities, i.e. on the basis of the methodology proposed by the local government associations, and in addition, the Government of the Republic decided to allocate 155550 euros of project-based support to Narva. In total, Narva has received nearly half a million euros. As mentioned above, local authorities received project applications for a total amount of approximately EUR 9 million. I would remind you that the money was only EUR 3 million. So the Government of the Republic had to make prudent choices. Narva's object was one third of the object to which the support was allocated. The selection of Narva's object was based, inter alia, on the assumption that other sources of financing, such as the Cohesion Fund, INTERREG and the ERDF, could also be requested for the main streets of Narva during the new financial period of the European Union. I hope that, with the support of the state, additional co-financing schemes for the maintenance of the main Narva streets will be found in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U14	Thank you. Members of the Riigikogu have questions to answer the question. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U15	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! I understand you're fresh at work, and you don't know everything. But when you were preparing to answer that question, were you told that the water and sewerage project in Narva would be completed this year and by August 1 there would be a recovery of 2.5 million euros in pipe repairs? In total, there are 170 kilometres of pipelines in Narva. If the Government of the Republic had allocated a little more money and given it to the Tallinn highway, then in two or three years there would be no need to redefine everything again. It would have been possible to save both local government and state money and to prepare a smooth road immediately. The current cheapening is not savings.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U16	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of Ida-Viru County! I'm sure you're more familiar with Narva's circumstances than I am, that's true. I understand you're very concerned about the welfare of your region, and that's good to hear. But we have to consider that the funds are limited, and if the Government of the Republic had not decided to provide additional resources on a project basis, Narva would not have received this EUR 155000 either. If Narva had received more money, given that the total amount of project-based support was EUR 3 million, this would have meant that today there would be representatives of other regions and would be worried about why they did not receive support. So a decision was made that seemed the most reasonable in this situation. But I consider the state of Narva roads to be very important myself, and also the Tallinn road to Narva is certainly important. I hope that in the coming years, in cooperation with the Ministry of Economic Affairs, additional resources from the European Union will be available.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U17	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister! I am going to expand somewhat on the subject of questioning and ask about road maintenance in general. You said on this particular subject that there was a limited amount of resources and that at least EUR 6 million were missing. It is clear that the road situation will not change significantly overnight if no more money is put into it. As a minister, how would you feel if there were a road tax in Estonia that would allow you to be better repaired and maintained?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U19	They always talk about it from time to time. In my opinion, the Head of the Road Administration recently raised this question. Personally, I think it would be unreasonable to impose road tax in Estonia. Estonia is a very small country and we have alternative roads where road tax cannot be collected. This means that, if the tax was introduced, the burden on the main roads would be reduced, fewer roads would start to drive, traffic would be less secure and, in the end, we would not get more money. The number of road users is also very limited in a small country. I do not think that this tax would work very well for us, even because of the small size of the country, but because of the small size of the population.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U20	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U21	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, I, too, will spare you the facts of recent history and such issues as you will be able to familiarise yourself with. But how do you feel about banning the use of return tyres? After all, this is also directly related to the maintenance of roads.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U22	I must admit that I have not yet read the scientific justification for banning them. However, if you look at the specific characteristics of our climate, it still seems that although we are claiming that we are breaking more roads, it is important for road safety to be able to use them in winter. Ice can occur very unexpectedly, and sand or salt cannot be carried quickly anywhere in the city in the morning. I am not a specialist in this area, but I dare not say lightly that these tyres should not be used in Estonia. This issue needs more in-depth analysis based on security considerations.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U23	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U24	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I need to be more specific. The question about Narva was not that Narva needed money to keep her streets in order. The question was that international traffic is moving through Narva, for which the state is responsible. The city government must send a signal to the Government of the Republic that there are five of these streets, which we discussed earlier with your predecessor, too, there is a need to double-finance. I'm glad money was made available to maintain the two streets. But what about the other three? Does the city administration have to put the sign 'Entrance refused' or does the state still look at the matter once more and contribute to the operation of international traffic?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U25	Thank you. Just because Narva is transited and the border is near, Narva received support for the maintenance of two streets. Otherwise he wouldn't have had it. There are roads that head to the border in other areas of Estonia as well. It is important that these other regions also receive money. But when it comes to Narva, the money could only be applied for one object, the other objects wouldn't have qualified. How can we deal with the future? As I said, with the support of the state, resources must be sought from the European Union. There are these possibilities in the funds, and before I read them out. I think Narva and the Ministry of Economic Affairs could work together here. I'm sure we'll help.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U26	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U27	Thank you, manager. Madam Minister! As we see every day, the situation of Estonian roads is worse and worse, especially those belonging to local governments. In my opinion, the scrapping stock is not repairing the road at the right time and the cover is not being repaired, because the subsequent repairs will be more expensive several times. How do you comment on the situation where the new coalition has decided to reduce the amount of EUR 25 million in road savings money?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U28	Thank you. As far as local roads are concerned, the coalition agreement states that their funding will not be reduced in absolute terms. I believe and hope that will remain so. As a minister, I will certainly stand for Estonia's roads to be kept in order in the future. The road plan could still go on the way it was planned. The budget process is underway. If any changes need to be made during the year, we will talk about this. But road construction is not a one-year project, but we still need to look at a more distant perspective. I am sure that in the future, the resources that the Estonian state will channel to keep tea will not shrink, but increase.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U29	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U30	Thank you. Dear Minister, As we know, the maintenance of local roads is still the responsibility of the local government. The state provides only additional resources, so-called aids, most of the money should come from the local government. There was talk of cheapening. After all, local government has been the main source of cocooning. My question continues with Mr Tamm's question. You replied that the extra road maintenance allowance for local roads is not reduced in absolute terms, while you plan to increase excise duty receipts. Am I to understand correctly that, as a percentage of excise duties, the money that goes into the storage of local roads is starting to decrease?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U31	No, it may not be, it may be the other way around. It all depends on how big the entire road budget will be next year. In turn, this percentage will be taken. Since it's unconfirmed, I can't say the percentage, but the fact is, the coalition has agreed not to reduce the absolute value. This is what I can say with certainty on the basis of the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U32	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U33	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. When the new coalition agreed on cost issues, the receipt of the proceeds had to be explained by Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. He assured me that you had an agreed amendment, under which excise duty would no longer go as much into road maintenance as it did so far. As Minister of Economic Affairs, can you explain why the first point of death was supposed to be the money going on the roads? The Minister of Finance couldn't come up with other places where he could save so much money.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U34	There are always a number of options when you put together the budget. As regards the channelling of excise duty towards the financing of road maintenance, the Coalition Agreement states that the linking of revenue to specific costs will be reduced. This provision, that 75% of the excise duty must certainly be used to finance road maintenance, will be removed from the law, but that does not mean that for a few years even more than 75% could be allocated to road maintenance, and of course a few years less must be allocated. Everything depends on opportunities and needs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U35	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U36	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. We're talking about tea storage, which is, like, 75% of the fuel excise. In fact, 75% of the fuel excise duty has long since gone into the financing of roads, but it has also been included in the amount of the subsidy from the European Union. Do you dare say today that municipalities will certainly not lose their roads in the grant money? I mean, a financial plan, let that percentage be what it's like. It may also happen that the excise percentage will be reduced to 67 and that the European Union's money will disappear from that list at all. So what's the actual amount left? It may happen that there is no more money for repairing large roads and that local authorities' support for local roads will disappear altogether.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U37	This year, EUR 28013000 has been allocated to municipalities. The coalition agreement states that this amount will not be reduced.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U38	Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, Listening to your answers, it seems like you should probably have a short-term course on geography, but let's call it off this time. The question just came up in Narva. I understand your answers that it is accepted that we give a little each year. I understand from what you said that for the renovation of the Tallinn road, which goes through the Narva border, applications must be submitted so that every year a little bit of road can be repaired from one traffic light to another. We should be able to approach in such a way that transit corridors and other routes can still be completed with one blow. Or is your message to the Narva that you keep submitting these requests, and then maybe in five years you can finish your tea too?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U40	On 2 April, the Economic Commission officials met with representatives of the European Commission and discussed the possibilities of financing two crossings from the Cohesion Fund in Narva: Rahu and Kerese Streets and Tallinn Roads (through Rahu and Kerese Streets you can make a circle around the city and Tallinn Road goes straight through the city). It was clear that two routes from the Cohesion Fund could not be financed; only one road leading to the border crossing point must be fixed as a pan-European TEN-T road. Since it is probably not reasonable to direct heavy traffic to the city centre from the point of view of the city's development, it seems logical at the moment to designate the street of Peace and Kerese, which is located just south of Narva, which is used by heavy goods vehicles. That is the answer to the question of whether there is a strategy. You have to discuss this with the city, of course, but it makes sense that heavy goods vehicles don't drive through the city centre. These funds could come from the Cohesion Fund. However, with regard to the financing of the Tallinn road, it would be possible to apply for funding from several sources of financing, e.g. under the INTERREG programme, from the ERDF (the distribution of this fund's grants is managed by the Ministry of the Interior) or from the state budget. So one way is the transit route, the maintenance of which can be financed from the Cohesion Fund, and the other is the one that goes through the city and has many possibilities for financing upkeep. It also depends on Narva itself on what opportunities she wants to take, but the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications will certainly provide help and support and knowledge.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U41	Tiit Tammsaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister! Listening to some ex-minister's questions, it seems like sometimes you don't know what's going on between the villages. The practice is that when co-financing state roads, the municipality is often obliged to set up light traffic routes, lighting and all kinds of pockets, and this money comes from the rural municipality's wallet, although the municipality should not actually do these works. But the specific question is this. Maybe a miracle happens, and we're gonna build Rail Baltic. Then the side roads and the local roads are in great danger. Didn't the Ministry ever think that maybe it's time to quietly clean up the roads near the line with some sort of separate project?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U43	Thank you. I didn't understand the question. Did you mean that the routes next to Rail Baltic should somehow receive separate funding? What's the logic back there? Maybe you can specify later, then I can give you the exact answer. I lost the idea of a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U44	Be brief!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U45	Thank you. As we know, this railroad does not itself, but it requires a lot of construction work. These work, however, will take place on the territory of rural municipalities and villages that are just along the route. Believe me, if preventive measures are not taken, the roads will become a swamp. My proposal is to try to deal with the matter proactively.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U46	Thank you. Now I understand the question. First you have to agree on the exact location of the path, then you will also be able to find out which path is next to it. But, yeah, I'm sure you'll have to think about heavy goods vehicles that start delivering construction materials, not breaking you down. All of this, of course, must be seen as a single package.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U47	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U48	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madam Minister! I was deeply concerned about how it would be possible to reach the Narva border crossing so as to avoid the city centre of Narva. My penguin, who happens to be from Narva, claims it's not possible. But that's it. Your predecessor, Mr. Parts, promised that in May the plan for the implementation of the transport development plan for the hall would come here. Is that promise still on? That's the first part of my question. The second part is as follows: How much is taken into account in this respect by the local authorities on whose territory international heavy goods or bus and coach transport takes place? What formula is used to calculate the load of a local road with a high flow of traffic?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U49	I really cannot answer the question of whether there will be a road map debate here in May. I need to clarify if that was the promise of the previous minister. But I do know that the government office is planning to discuss the prospect of a road plan in the near future. Which formula calculates the load, I can't tell you that. However, it is very precisely described which formula can be used to obtain funding for transit routes. These conditions are all described. I'm not going to read them now because they're available to everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U50	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U51	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Let me get this straight. Do I understand that you are in favour of a legislative amendment repealing the current regime so that 75% of the fuel excise duty received should go to maintain the roads? According to this amendment, the government office should decide at random whether 57% or 77% will be allocated for each financial year in the future. It's a little strange for me to hear it from a minister who should be responsible for the maintenance of the roads. Is it going to look like we're going to start building some roads in the future, but if next year there is no money or less money, then we're going to cut off the work and then we're going to build again next year? So far, this 75% has been just a guarantee to be able to plan the work. There is a development plan that the government will review and approve and be developed by the Ministry. It gives confidence that something can be planned and implemented. Let me get this straight. Do you support this amendment, which you have already agreed on?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U52	As regards the 75% decoupling from the budget, this is the point of the coalition agreement and all coalition partners have signed it. I say once again that this does not mean that this percentage should decrease every year; it can also increase. But I fully agree with you that road construction requires long-term planning, that very little can be done in one year. It takes time to plan and prepare. Of course, we must continue to work on the basis of a road map. The road management plan has now been approved until 2020. After all, nothing has been stoned in life, there are better and worse times. That is why it makes perfect sense that every year the road management plan is reviewed and the amount of external resources we have is also taken into account. The amount of external resources is estimated in the plan, and these amounts are specified each year. The current government is also planning to review the road plan in the long term and confirm that it can be worked on. In any case, we need to look at a more distant perspective. I am certainly looking out for as many state budget resources as possible, as well as foreign funds, to go to the development of our roads.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U53	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! According to § 68 (3) of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the time allowed for the question to be submitted is one minute. Let's get the questions into that time! Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U54	Thank you. Madam Minister! You said the money was allocated on the basis of agreements. It's interesting what kind of agreements exist. My question relates to the future. I realized that next year, 22 applicants will receive only six-seven contributions from the state. If the municipality writes the application next year, what should be the reason for this? Is it that heavy goods vehicles are moving in his territory? Is it important whether the local government received money last year or not? I can say that among those six or seven, there are those who get money every year.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U55	Thank you. The last two years have been around 10% of the total tea money distributed to municipalities on the basis of project applications. In the past, all money was distributed on a proposal from the local government associations. It has not yet been decided that 10% of the funds will be distributed on a project basis in the following year, no such decision yet. Once again, I would point out that if this decision had not been made this year, then this question would have gone away, there would have been no reason to ask why Narva had so little money, because she would not have had it. But when this decision comes, of course, there will also be very specific criteria on which these proposals will be assessed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U56	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U57	Thank you. Dear Minister, IRL politicians have begun to criticize you. They say the money on the roads has to be planned long and everything has to be known in advance for a long time. But there's been a crime in our neighborhood. In 2012, a new cup of gravel was put on the Saak highway, but when it rains, cars cannot drive there because this cover is slippery. Local people say that clay has been transported there. After all, such negligence leads to the need for extra money. As your minister, how do you think it would be better to do less in the future, but better in the future, or can you really go overboard to look for money again in a few years' time and complain that there will be little money for roads?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U58	Of course, you have to think first and then do it. Road safety is the most important thing. If we're gonna make a difference, it's gonna get better, not worse. Every human life is priceless.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U59	No further questions. Thank you to the Minister. I'm opening negotiations. Tarmo Tamm will speak of the heirs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U60	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I listened to questions and answers to them. I am surprised that the former Minister of Regional Affairs is well able to read the law, but does not remember how much money the state has given to local authorities to carry out their duties. In the meantime, there were years when local authorities received only 6.5% of the fuel excise duty. Compared, for example, to 2013 and 2014, the amount allocated to local authorities for road maintenance has decreased by EUR 1.2 million this year. I have the question that, if a representative of the government has said that the amount of next year will not be reduced, the amount of which year will not be reduced, either last year or that year. The amount that goes on local government roads is so small. When people say that local governments are guilty and cannot carry out their tasks, I ask where is the city in Estonia whose streets are in order. Don't show me the cities that pass through the state roads that the country has fixed, such as Otepää and Tõrva, don't show me the cities where the country roads are! Show me a local government where the local roads are fine! It's an unfinished job for the previous government. But sadly, the new coalition will continue in this direction and even exacerbate the tea deficit. Taking another EUR 25 million off the roads in this situation is, in my opinion, one of the biggest economic stupidities of this government coalition. If you are not repaired in time, in the future, repairs will be more expensive. If the government doesn't understand it, I think it's very sad. According to the law, 75% of excise duties on fuel should go for road repair. In recent years, less than 50% of excise duties on fuel have gone to repair roads in Estonia. So 25% is already covering the other costs of the state, and now it turns out that there is little of this 25%, and the new coalition wants to drink more money. That is actually an honest answer, and that is what should be said. If we keep going like this, I don't know where local government roads will end up. I was hoping the new coalition would take a different view and try to level those holes that have developed in the meantime. I hope he will support our bill, which foresees that local authorities receive at least 10% of the money collected as fuel excise duty. This would give local authorities some certainty, and they should not then depend on the state's financial situation in the spring and on the number of figures that the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications will write in the table. I hope that this kind of support comes from the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U61	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U62	Mr President! Madam Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, This is a completely new situation for me in the three years of this membership, for the first time today, this is the case. I think you saw that I pressed the button right from the beginning and asked my question. I'm used to seeing another person here and more or less predicting what the Minister of Economic Affairs is telling me as a representative of Narva. That is why I had the intention of talking a little bit about history, about what happened in the 1990s, about how we got rid of queues and the mob at the border, or about how if these 3 million euros were to be shared between the 15 municipalities that applied for support, then each of us would receive EUR 200000, which is still more than the 155000 we received. If two lists were drawn up, one of the municipalities who received the money, and the other of those who did not receive the money, and look at how many of them have the power of the Centre Party, it would appear that there is a huge difference between the two lists. But I'm not going to do this right now because, strangely enough, for the first time in three years, I got some interesting information because of my questioning. I'm taking it to Narva Council. I am a member of the Council's Committee on Roads and I am sure to tell you how this debate was conducted. I'm gonna put a verbatim on the table, translate a few passages from it. The most unpleasant thing to you, Madam Minister, is that we will not let you forget what you said about these applications and funds from this remote control. But in any case, it sounded very positive today and here I think. So thank you, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U63	There are no more requests for negotiation. The item has been exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U64	A free microphone follows. Please register for performance after the hammer kick! Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U65	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Normally, when I come to tell you something about this remote control during a free microphone, I'm talking about a specific project or case, for example, a case. I've never talked about a particular person here. Today, however, I want to talk about a person. This person is the Minister of Finance of the Republic of Estonia, Jürgen Ligi. Of course, you can say what you want to say about him, a real peasant, and that's it. I would like to remind you that he is the same person who told the woman that it should not be lost, and he did so with pleasure on the live air of Estonian Television. He is the same person who once suggested that single pensioners die very quickly from this remote control, because life is so difficult and boring as to live alone. Mats he is and behaves like a hardened village drinker, but he is also a phenomenon. He's become a phenomenon. That's what I want to talk about today. We must admit that Estonia is full of demented, absolutely demented people. Someone starts hysterical and starts some bullshit, for example, that somewhere in Narva needs a NATO base, like that. The only thing that follows from this is that the U.S. Ambassador travels very quickly from Tallinn to Narva, summons the chief editors of local newspapers and radio stations and asks them not to amplify the subject: 'Enough is enough, once one has said such stupidity, you do not have to write about it, because such stupidity is very unpleasant. ' Or some other morons will think that if there is a war, whether or not all this man will go to the Republic of Estonia to protect him. In fact, those who discuss the matter usually jump on the ferry first, when there is trouble, and flee from this country where they have the money hidden and where they have the real estate. Why do we suffer these morons? Last week, I interviewed Delfi, I was asked about Ukraine. I have read the Ukrainian Constitution, I have read the electoral laws and the rules for the removal of the President. I don't like Janukovich, I don't like him at all, but he was completely illegally removed. The rules state that 75% of the board members must support the removal decision, but the supporters were less than 75%. When people say stupid things like Ligi that this government is recognized because we like them, but they didn't like the former ones, it's an idiot that shows a completely sick brain. I know what I'm talking about. The IX Riigikogu had a member such as Anti Liiv. I think you remember him, Vladimir. The first day we took an oath here, he looked at the hall and said that there were three of his patients in the hall. He didn't tell us who they were, but if one doctor, one psychiatrist comes and says something like that, then the question arises whether, for God's sake, Estonia is truly worthy of such a parliament. I gave my opinion, that is my constitutional right. This Mats Ligi announced that I am not worthy of the Riigikogu, thank God, as it turns out, he is not my voter, and put me in the same line as Stalin and Hitler. I'd put him in a line with any schizophrenic who needs treatment. I think it is necessary to send him a medical checkup. If we change the electoral laws here again, I propose we check the mental health of the candidates. How long can such savage and sick people as Jürgen Ligi suffer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U66	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U67	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Since we're talking about tea today, I'm gonna say a few words about the roads in our area. IRL members spoke actively here and asked the Minister for Economic Affairs how the roads could improve. I would like to remind you how, under the leadership of the Minister for the IRL, you have been or have not been fixed in our region. On 3 April, there was a large-scale meeting at the Saatse village centre, where the situation of the Saatse road was discussed. It turns out that already in 2012, Värska was repaired on the Saatse highway and a new mug was put in it. But it turns out that the cover is so sticky and smeary that when it rains, the substance that it turns into is so sticky and smeary that it smears all the cars. If you're saying that the road user should wash his car, consider that the first laundry is 60 kilometers away and the laundry doesn't even want to take these cars. Not to mention that such a road becomes dangerous because the cover is very slippery and it is very difficult for road users to drive along such a road. It's a good thing there haven't been any accidents yet. But it is clear that this gravel road needs to be cleaned up in the near future, and this also requires additional money from the Estonian state. This meeting was attended by representatives from the Road Administration, South-East Teede AS, Värska Municipality Government, Põlva County Government and the Setomaa Support Group of the Riigikogu. Everyone understood that this path needed to be improved. So although the current Minister for Economic Affairs, Urve Palo, has a lot of work to do, he also has to deal with the Värska-Saat highway. For example, what do border residents answer the question of how to increase the loyalty of people in Estonia and how to protect the Estonian state? They say they don't need guns, they need to fix the highway. I believe that, with regard to the border agreement, more attention will also be paid to all those roads along the border. I also believe that the amounts allocated per road kilometre for road repair and construction will be increased. I wish Urve Palo strength! I do not think the IRL should speak for three years about the state of the roads in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-14_U68	There's no more calls, the trial's over. I'll see you tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 4 p.m.
