ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-15_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the Monday session of the 12th working week of the VIIIth plenary session. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. The representative of the Government of the Republic, Mrs. Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-15_U2	Mr President of the Riigikogu! Dear Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching two draft laws today. Firstly, the draft law on the prevention and resolution of the financial crisis. Maris Lauri, Minister of Finance, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the above-mentioned bill in the Riigikogu. Secondly, the draft law amending the State Secrets and the Law on classified foreign information. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Andres Anvelt, Minister of Justice, when dealing with the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-15_U3	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-15_U4	Good afternoon. Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! Despite the pre-Christmas anxiety, it is still quite appropriate to raise some important issues. One important issue, which is in the air before January each year, is the pay of teachers. This time I will present to you our proposal to amend § 27 of the Pre-school Children's Institution Act. The subject is minimum pay rates for kindergarten teachers. The question has been discussed several times in this Riigikogu. Since the Government of the Republic had questions about our draft in the discussion of the draft Act amending § 27 of the Act on Pre-School Children's Institution, in order for everything to be very correct, the draft law will arrive before the beginning of the new year in a modified form, with amendments. Let me remind you of the problems. Our kindergarten teachers are currently purely financing local government. The state has given very clear rules on teacher qualifications, teachers working in kindergarten must also have higher education, they must go to training to constantly improve themselves. However, when we look at the salaries of teachers by county, we see that at times the gross wage is less than EUR 600, which is slightly more than EUR 400 per kindergarten teacher. This is certainly significantly lower than the salary of a school teacher. In order to help local authorities catch up with the salaries of kindergarten teachers on the salaries of teachers, we have proposed how to resolve the situation so that at the same time we do not interfere with the self-determination of local authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-15_U5	I have adopted three draft laws and they are treated in accordance with the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 89 members of the Riigikogu are present, 12 are missing. The next item is the adoption of the agenda. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the agenda for the 12th working week of the 8th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. There were 82 members of the Riigikogu in favour of approving the agenda, no respondents or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-15_U6	After the hammer hit, please register for a free microphone speaker! Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-15_U7	Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-15_U8	Wait a minute! [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-15_U9	Thank you for the floor. Dear people, who are we in this hall...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-15_U10	Just a minute! Mikhail Stalnukhin must have a procedural question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-15_U11	The technique doesn't function. . [[Voice from the hall: the screen is not working]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-15_U12	Does that bother us? I have all the recorded speeches before my eyes, and you can also watch them on the side screens. Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-15_U13	Thanks again! Ladies and gentlemen, who are we in the Chamber? And the hall is full. Now, if you look at the holidays and take stock of the year, think about what we will remember from the old year and what will take us to the new year, there are many things to remember: Ukrainian war, torture in U.S. prison camps, traitors in the box, small wages, poor pensions, etc. We can bring out a lot of negatives. But if we were to ask what Estonia's greatest achievement this year is, for some people it may be a surprise, perhaps not for some, but it seems to me that the most this year has been talked about Tallinn's achievement, i.e. free public transport, in the media of China, in the media of America and Italy. There has been a great deal of these news from around the world, and our local Tallinn Television and Capital's page have also reflected them. So, in my opinion, the biggest message that went out of Estonia this year was free public transport in Tallinn, because we are pioneers in the world in this regard. There are now dozens and dozens of cities where it is intended to be introduced, i.e. trams and buses in their hometown for free, so that people do not have to pay. I was at Otepää High School a few days ago and we talked to seniors there. You'd think young people wouldn't care about the idea of free transportation, but it was surprising that the whole hall was extremely active. I also voted for this kind of transport. The whole auxiliary tour was, everyone said they needed free transport, they could start working from Otepää to Tartu when they grow up and graduate and go to Tartu University. So young people also wonder how they can go to free work and school. The statistics are that Tallinn's free public transport has brought more than 10% of passengers by bus and tram. And imagine, there are about four times as many passengers on suburban trains, which is surprisingly much. People have accepted that they can go to work without money and return home at night without money. And if we look at whether we can't apply free transport throughout Estonia, the figures show that it would be perfectly possible if this same hall found a consensus and perhaps voted in favour of free public transport in the new formation. I'll give you some numbers. Currently, public transport is supported by the state for €22 million per year. If the intra-terrestrial routes were free of charge, only 12 to 13 million more would have to be paid. And if we were to make free transport all over Estonia, my ladies and gentlemen, listeners and co-thinkers, we would only have to pay more than 46 million. What does that mean? This means that everyone can go home to work without money and without money at night. If we take rural districts, such as Põlva or Võru, from which we must drive 50 kilometres in the morning to work in Tartu and return home in the same way, it will take a large, large amount of money that the family could spend elsewhere. We're proposing a way for this race to be done without money. This should be done, but unfortunately, the representative of the squirrel party Jürgen Ligi described the all-Estonian project of free transport in the following words, I quote the media: 'Racional responses are quite pointless here, only advertising on the other side. ' The other half is meant for the Centre Party faction. There's nothing to do, that's how the squirrel party does the Estonian thing. Unfortunately, that is the case. However, I think that the new Riigikogu will be discussing the introduction of free transport across Estonia, and the entire Estonian people would be very grateful for this. Thanks to the listeners!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-15_U14	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-15_U15	I don't have to burn the screen to talk. Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I decided to pour a little heart out in front of you today. Aarne Mäe, editor-in-chief of the Virumaa Journal a week ago, asked me whether I was disappointed in the Riigikogu and in politics that I was no longer going to stand for election. I expressly told him and, in the truth and in spirit, I assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that I am not disappointed in politics or in the Riigikogu. The Riigikogu is the mirror image of our people, and I like this picture. I like this little tough nation and the limestone north with its magnificent nature. Ladies and gentlemen of the previous and present composition of the Riigikogu, thank you for a wonderful and dignified night together. You're colorful and interesting personalities. You have youthful courage, the vigor of your mid- and old age, and the experience of life. It's been interesting with you anyway. Eight years ago, I came to the Riigikogu to contribute to the development of the oil shale sector, Ida-Virumaa and Estonia as a whole, with my knowledge and experience of managing large companies in the long term. I can safely say that, despite today's problems, the oil shale industry has undergone colossal development over the last 15 years, both in terms of investment and technology. In Ida-Virumaa, development has been much faster than in most other Estonian regions. The situation of the Estonian state can also be considered satisfactory in the context of the world. Of course, there is always a right to say and want more. Of these three success stories and the accompanying shortcomings, I dare to account for a tiny part, I stress, a tiny part. I have fulfilled my promise in front of the electorate. I repeat, three things: the oil shale industry has undergone colossal development, Ida-Virumaa has developed faster than most other Estonian regions and, thirdly, Estonia's development can at least be considered satisfactory. Why am I not running anymore? The simple answer is that there is no internal urge, such an internal deep desire and willingness to participate in the Riigikogu. Perhaps this is because, throughout my working life, I have not worked in one company for more than eight years in a row. Dear colleagues, I like it here. Cooperation with you has been pleasant and I believe that mostly necessary and fruitful. Thank you and I wish you every success in the forthcoming elections for those who are going to the elections. I believe that the next Riigikogu will be better and better. Everything is evolving, it is so arranged by nature, and I believe that there will indeed be fresh and young blood in the Riigikogu, and there will be decisions that will take our country and people forward. Once again, thank you and good luck to all! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-15_U16	Thank you, Lembit Kaljuvee! Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-15_U17	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, From the new year, Latvia has a law that makes eyes for Estonia. This will give the last mortgage borrowers in distress a chance to get away from the loan when they return the property they bought to the bank. In other words, the keys back to the bank and off the loan. Well, it seems like a long-awaited law. But why do we not have this in Estonia? Why do ruling power parties not want to stand up for people in Estonia? Could this be because some parties are too closely associated with foreign banks? I think that the power parties themselves know the best answer to these questions. Personally, however, I am of the opinion that it is high time for Estonia to follow suit from Latvia and adopt a law aimed at making both banks and borrowers act more responsibly. We know that when dealing with a bank, ordinary citizens are always in a weaker position, and it is the state that should come to the aid of that bank. Unfortunately, this is not the case in Estonia. The state has either accidentally or knowingly left the borrower at the mercy of the banks. If we look more broadly, the opposite situation has arisen. Large foreign banks are tightening up their activities in Estonia, leaving rural areas without a bank office and without jobs, and the recent trend is that they are giving up supporting events that are important for Estonia. Where, then, is the social responsibility that has been much talked about? I am of the opinion that a loan must be granted, but also taken responsibly. A situation where thousands of people lose their homes must not be repeated in the future. For decades, there has been an unacceptable unequal situation in Estonia, where the state has left borrowers at the mercy of lenders, i.e. banks, and has not actively defended the weaker party, the borrower. It should be recalled that the Central Party Group proposed to the Riigikogu as early as 2009 similar to the law coming into force in Latvia. Unfortunately, we have not been heard so far, but I assure you that we will certainly not give up. One thing is clear: the Estonian Central Party does not serve foreign banks and is definitely on the human side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-15_U18	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-15_U19	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Now that the state budget for next year and the laws on raising taxes have become laws and passions have subsided, the best time is to see what the state budget for next year gives us and what it takes from us. In particular, it should be pointed out that there is a difference in the treatment of the draft laws relating to the increase in the cost of the budget. In previous years they were sent to the Riigikogu together with the draft state budget law and adopted together with the budget. This year, the bill to raise prices was introduced to the Riigikogu in late spring and was adopted on 1 July, at the beginning of the summer, so people may have missed them in many ways. Since this has not been the case before, it can be assumed that the authors of this satanic cunning were the new coalition partners of the Reform Party. On 1 July, a law was adopted on the basis of which fuel oil specially labelled at a low rate of excise duty may no longer be used to heat homes from May next year. This means that the excise duty on fuel oil rises more than three times, leading to an increase in oil prices of 38%. The same law raises the level of excise duty on gas by a total of 20% from the beginning of next year, in turn for three years, still by 20% each year. Those who use gas to heat a home or make food will definitely get to know it. These "gifts" made in summertime are being silenced, but we have heard the self-reliant praises of the sots about the multiplication of children's benefits, which includes the truth. There has been a great deal of drumming on the subject that next year, free hot food will also be provided at school upper secondary school, forgetting that the budget only provides 78 cents per student per day. I'm sure no one thinks it's possible to eat lunch with this money. There are two options: either the parent has to pay more or the local government can do so. Most municipalities are unable to do so. There's a lot of screaming and a little villa again, but as they say, it helps. The many years of the Reform Party's mantra has been a 1% reduction in personal income tax. It is now here again, since 1 January, the income tax will be 20%. Let's take a closer look. The recipient of the minimum wage wins 1 euro and 63 cents per month. A person with a monthly salary of EUR 3000 wins 27 euros and 36 cents a month. The difference is 16 times, or once again the Reform Party is given a gift to the richest. At the same time, it will remove EUR 70 million from the budget. With this money, it would have been possible to increase the school lunch allowance to at least EUR 1 per student per day from next year, to continue using low excise fuel oil during the next heating period, to allocate additional support to farmers and to offer free bus rides to Estonian people on county lines. But instead, the rich get richer. This inequality would only be offset by progressive income tax, so that those who are again being given more would also pay more tax to create common benefits. Ultimately, next year's budget will not stimulate our economy, and people will only be helped by headlines. Essentially, we are facing an increase in prices. I'm sure the Centre Party would do something different. I have already mentioned progressive income tax. Secondly, room and electricity should not be luxury goods in our climate zone. We would reduce electricity excise duty to the minimum allowed in the European Union. After making the necessary investments, we would reduce network charges and not allow the money collected through network charges to be taken into the state budget. We would set a lower VAT rate for room temperature. Thirdly, we believe that a person working full-time for a week must receive at least a salary that allows for minimum living. To this end, we would already be raising the minimum wage to EUR 500 from 2016. Jne. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-15_U20	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-15_U21	Ladies and gentlemen, I guess the last free microphone of the year is the right time to sum up what it was like this year. I think it's been cold and just as hopelessly gray, even black, like this black screen over my head. What's happened in the world? Who would have believed a year ago that in Europe, in the middle of Europe, a civil war like the one in Ukraine, where, according to the OSCE, 4600 civilians have now been killed by the troops of their country? Who would have believed that there would be such a thing as the Islamic state in the Middle East? This came about, of course, as a result of 'a very wise policy', but no one can say how to remedy this situation now. Who would have thought this year would end with news that the United States has secret prisons all over the world and tortured prisoners, very cruelly, and no one is responsible? Who would have believed that such a circus would be transformed into a tragedy? I mean the shot-off Malaysian plane that's still under investigation, but everyone's pointing the finger who's supposedly done it. Who would have believed that the Cold War would start after 20 years of peaceful life, that sanctions against Russia and Russian sanctions against the European Union would be applied? Who could have believed all this a year ago? Let's see what's happened in Estonia during the year. I don't have much time here, but there's a few things I can tell you. The law of cohabitation, our nature, the absolute majority, was adopted and our roots of life are being broken. The Child Protection Act is introduced into the Juvenile Justice Act, which even the Inquisition once ended, recognising that its use is not an option. It has now been brought into the life of our country by the Child Protection Act. Work capacity reform, which the government coalition is currently actively pushing through in order to make a few tens of thousands more unhappy in Estonia. And until the end of the year, we can also discuss yet another foolishness of giving 16-year-olds the right to vote in municipal elections. They're against it, they talk about it on television, in forms, but no, they have to do it, even though no one believes in it. At the end of the year, knowing what's happened all this time, I'd like to find some symbol that would apply to this year, such a short but unambiguous symbol. And I think I found this symbol. It happened in the spring. Perhaps you remember how a young, healthy and beautiful giraffe was killed in the Copenhagen Zoo in Denmark. His name was Marius. He was killed just because he needed meat. There is no meat to feed lions in developed Europe. He was killed with a construction gun and then autopsied in front of dozens of children. It's this year's symbol of cynicism, it's cruelty, and it's growing in our lives. God forbid there'll be less next year. God forbid the Cold War would end in a hot war. God forbid we can live in peace with our neighbors and not blame anyone until proven guilty. What's more to say? It was a bad year. I hope the next one will be even a little better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-15_U22	Valeri Korb, is there a wish to speak? Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-15_U23	Thank you. I'm taking the opportunity to have the last free microphone this year. I do not want to come here to give a political speech and talk about what is happening around us. Our colleague, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee, spoke beautifully about this and spoke beautifully about it by our colleague, Mr Stalnukhin. On behalf of the Centre Party Group, I want to thank all those people who work with us in the Riigikogu, who are doing a lot to make our work comfortable, so that we can work to have light, be warm, have a nice and good situation around. So, Mr Staff, on behalf of the Centre Party Group, thank you very much for this beautiful work. I wish you a good year and, of course, a good 2015! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-15_U24	There are no further requests to speak. The sitting is adjourned. I'll see you tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 3.33 p.m.
