ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Prime Minister and ministers! Let's start the 19th February briefing. Today, Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder and Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi will take part in Question Time. First, we'll do a presence check. 31 members of the Riigikogu signed up and there are no 70 members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U2	Let's get to the questions. Kadri Simson would like to ask Prime Minister Andrus Ansip about the closure of upper secondary schools. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U3	Thank you. Prime Minister! Last Friday, Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Research, said on radio Kuku that the number of upper secondary schools in Estonia must decrease. He said it had to shrink more than three times. This means that there should be about 73 upper secondary schools in Estonia instead of the current 218 secondary schools and upper secondary schools. Do you share the position of the Minister of Education and do the triple reduction in the number of upper secondary schools constitute the common educational policy objective of the government coalition?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U4	The upper secondary school manager is a local government and the opening or closing of the upper secondary school is primarily his decision. There are currently just under 20,000 upper secondary schools and about 200 upper secondary schools in Estonia, to be exact, 198 upper secondary schools. On average, 100 students study in one upper secondary school. At the same time, we know that there are upper secondary schools with more than 250 students. Hugo Treffner Gymnasium has 540 students and is among the best upper secondary schools in Estonia. We also know that we have a number of upper secondary schools where under ten children study in one class. If the upper secondary school is very small, it is not possible to hire highly qualified teachers to teach all subjects. This means that the quality of learning will certainly suffer. I agree with the Minister for Education and Science that upper secondary school education must be of high quality and quality is also guaranteed by the size of the upper secondary school. The maintenance of a small upper secondary school is expensive. The local government should pay a great deal more to the upper secondary school so that it is possible to keep good teachers there. Our basic school education is a basic school close to home, but upper secondary school does not necessarily have to be close to home.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U5	Thank you very much. Please, Kadri Simson, the first question to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U6	Thank you. Prime Minister! I understand from your first response that you support the Minister of Education's plan to close small upper secondary schools. According to Minister Aaviksoo, small upper secondary schools have problems providing quality education, while good state examination results encourage the maintenance of magymnasiums. I give an example of the results of the last state exams of two small upper secondary schools: in Lääne-Virumaa Vinni-Põjusti Upper Secondary School, an average of 83 points were obtained at the state examination of mathematics and in Saaremaa Leisi Upper Secondary School, an average of 82,2 points out of 100 points were obtained at the state examination of English. There are also small magymnasiums in high enough places in the general school table. Therefore, do you believe that budgetary pressure from every small magymnasium is justified and correct?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U7	Thank you. I am disappointed that I answered your previous question in such a confusing way that it was possible to count support for the closure of upper secondary schools. I explicitly said that the closure and opening of upper secondary schools is up to the local government, i.e. the schoolkeeper. It is not for the Government of the Republic, the Prime Minister or the Minister of Education and Research to decide. However, I consider it reasonable to give our young people the best upper secondary school education in the world. I find it possible to give it in high school such as Hugo Treffner High School, where our family's third daughter is studying and where, as I said, there are 540 students.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U8	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson, the second point to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U9	Prime Minister! You said it was up to the local governments, but yet the government is putting budgetary resources on the municipalities. At the end of January, a draft decree of the Government of the Republic was published on the basis of which the Equalisation Fund will be distributed for the current financial year. It also includes school education grants. The regulation states that additional support for teachers' labour costs will be taken into account for those local government units that have taken decisions to organise the upper secondary school network between 2010 and 2013. The wage fund for teachers in 76 cities and rural municipality upper secondary schools is decreasing. Does this mean that the municipalities and cities that did not take decisions to close secondary school during this period will be penalised ex post?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U10	Thank you. I know for a fact that the bounty will increase by 8%. I also know quite clearly that there will be an increase in educational expenditure in the budget in absolute terms. Therefore, I cannot agree with your argument as if the Ministry were putting pressure on and cutting funds somewhere. Yes, it is true that the number of students has fallen. It is also true that state secondary schools have worked very well, that the urge of students to them is remarkable. Of course, if students leave a small upper secondary school in a strong state upper secondary school, it can be seen as exerting pressure, but it is a free choice for young people and their parents. I think we're all for freedom.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U11	Thank you. Now two issues registered on the spot. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U12	Thank you very much, Madam President. Prime Minister! The government has introduced free higher education, but now you have paid upper secondary school education. In particular, the closure of upper secondary schools and the acquisition of upper secondary school education away from home entail considerable costs for the family: a fee for transport and rental space, and possibly other expenses. Do you not think that such a school reform, without solving the issue of student homes, could lead to problems of access to upper secondary school education in rural areas?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U13	Thank you. I fully agree with you that the problem of student homes must be solved and all students must be able to receive the best upper secondary school education in Estonia, regardless of the financial means of the family.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U14	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U15	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! My question still concerns the pay of teachers. We know that teachers' salaries have not actually risen by 12%. We also know that the burden on teachers has increased, despite the fact that wages have remained the same. Wage increases can only be said for the minimum wage, for those whose wages were slightly higher, they have not risen. How do you feel about your government minister, Aaviksoo, saying that those teachers whose wages have not risen should go to the police?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U16	Thank you. As I have already said from this speaker, the government has allocated higher amounts to education expenditure for next year, and the bounty has also increased considerably. It is therefore reasonable to assume that the pay of teachers must have increased. The increase in the minimum wage has been significant: last year the teacher's minimum wage was EUR 715 and this year it is EUR 800. The means to raise the pay of teachers are available; they must increase the pay of each teacher. Today, the Ministry of Education and Research published a press release on teachers' salaries last year. We learned from this that local authorities have started to make much more targeted use of the resources allocated to teachers' pay from education costs and to pay them out as a salary. True, there are problems, especially in some major cities. I hope that these problems will soon be resolved and that the teachers will also receive the resources for raising their pay as a salary.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U17	Thank you very much. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U18	Let's go to the next question. Urve Palo asks Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi about investments in Eesti Energia. Please, Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U19	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. You have been in the role of the Estonian Energy General Meeting for some time. I believe that you have been able to bring yourself up to date with the issue of investments in Eesti Energia. I therefore ask you this question. Rikki Hrenko, a subsidiary of Eesti Energia USA, has confirmed that the company plans to invest billions of dollars in Utah. At the same time, it is known that the US government is not in favour of producing carbon-rich energy. In fact, Estonia currently does not have the technology to mine coal in Utah and produce energy from it. How do you feel about investments in Eesti Energia in the USA? Isn't it time for us to get out of there?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U20	Thank you. A good colleague next to me advises you to pin Duck on him. But I don't want to do this. Foreign projects have indeed been an aggressive part of the economic activity of Eesti Energia. In this sense, I welcome the fact that Estonia's oil shale energy know-how is unique. Inevitably, the necessary search is in the area where we can implement and sell it. It is very early to make an assessment of the Utah project, but I have an assessment of the Jordan project, which will probably need to be more talkative in the near future. At the moment, on the Utah project, I can say that a number of coordination and studies have been carried out. There is no mention of any large investments in Estonian Energy reaching billions. The level of investment will be kept as low as possible before it becomes clear how suitable local oil shale is for our technology. But the work on this project is ongoing and there is no way to say that there would be no support for it on the ground. The local government and, I hear, the public opinion also strongly support such an investment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U21	Thank you. Please, Urve Palo, the first question to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U22	Thank you. As far as I know, some EUR 60 million have been invested in Utah. You'll know more, and you'll be more specific. This amount is not small and additional investments are still planned to be made in millions of euros and not in tens of thousands of euros. I expect you to be more familiar with this subject today. I understand, of course, that these decisions were made during your predecessor's time, but now new things are decided. So I want a more specific answer. As far as opposition is concerned, indeed, the local authority naturally favours this project because they hope that new jobs will be created as a result. But the US federal government is not in favour of carbon-rich production. When will you be more familiar with this issue in order to discuss it further?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U23	Thank you. One thing is whether I am familiar with it, another is whether the public debate on business projects is practical at all. In this regard, it is always necessary to be very precise in what you say. The amount you mentioned, EUR 60 million, I will not confirm. I don't think it's accurate, but of course I need to update my knowledge. In any case, this project is currently at a stage where as little and as selective as possible is being spent. But the decision was made years ago. I do not consider it reasonable for Eesti Energia to keep all its wisdom about oil shale only to itself. He could export it. But a particular project needs time to make an assessment. I wouldn't be in a hurry to judge, but I wouldn't be inclined to spread confidential information about business, because that's always a delicate question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U24	Thank you. Please, Urve Palo, the second point of clarification!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U25	Thank you. I'll ask you again after a while. But we're coming to Estonia. Eesti Energia promised two years ago that it would launch a new oil shale oil plant Enefit 280. It is estimated that the monthly stagnation will mean EUR 4 million per month. So far, this plant hasn't started. Have you examined when our new oil shale oil plant could be operational?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U26	Thank you. I can't make engineering promises, but Enefit 280 works at 50-80%, though not stable. So here comes the oil. But, of course, expectations are high there because it is a profitable way to earn oil shale; Estonia has this know-how and must develop it in any case. There have been disappointments and setbacks, but in the case of such innovations, it is hard to imagine that everything is going smoothly. Enefit 140 was twice the size of the device, but it was developed beyond measure. Now he's making a profit. We wanted, more specifically, Eesti Energia wanted to make a bigger device, it is a major change, and to add all the wisdom that has in the meantime been gained from the development of the old device. This is, in a sense, a business risk and very much a technology issue. It may be said that setbacks are not avoidable in such matters, but the prospects nevertheless seem to be good.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U27	Thank you. Please check-in, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U28	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! If I have looked at the investments and the volume of investments and the results of the last five years of Eesti Energia, I have had a long feeling that there is more money in Eesti Energia than there is in mind. You mentioned the setbacks in relation to Enefit 280 and the second and third projects. Who is responsible for stupidity or incompetence if investments do not start as planned?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U29	Thank you. The company's management is of course responsible for the foolishness and incompetence. The time for responsibility is not yet at hand, just as it is not time to claim that the company has failed with its development. I haven't failed. There are worse and better news, and I will probably have some more positive news on this issue in the near future. I don't want to say anything final about corporate management. I think it's a capable team. But the answer to your direct question is that if there are any major setbacks, the responsibility of the management will eventually be considered. I hope everything goes well.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U30	Thank you. The second issue registered on the spot. Tarmo Tamm.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U31	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I'm gonna ask you about the leadership. In addition to failing investments, Eesti Energia will also lose the market consistently. Isn't it time to think about changing management?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U32	Thank you. Management can always be exchanged, either on a regular basis or on an irregular basis. I didn't exactly catch what you think the most critical question is. Speaking of Enefit 280, there are also very positive developments. This new plant must start to process oil shale much more efficiently and produce electricity from, for example, the released gas. Once again, I cannot imagine why Estonia, where there is such a natural resource and know-how, should give up innovation and attempts to export oil shale energy in one form or another. I think that in the basic principle, Eesti Energia has moved in the right direction. Whether he's risked and hoped too much at times, we can still appreciate that.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U33	Thank you. I will conclude the debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U34	Let's go to question three. Esther Tuiksoo asks Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder about the rural development plan. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U35	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable Minister of Agriculture! We have already talked a lot about the rural development plan and the expectations of the rural sector are very high. But there are still a lot of loose ends in the sector. Have you defined the concept of active farmer in relation to the rural development plan for the years 2014 to 2020? As has been said, there is a lot of talk about this, but yet it has become confusing, who is meant by an active farmer.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U36	Thank you. Indeed, the rural development plan has been active for two years and is now in the final stages. I hope that in the coming weeks, the government will be able to discuss the final option and decide whether or not the development plan should be further improved and amended. Then we can start negotiations with the European Commission on the approval of the development plan. The concept of active farmer is still under discussion. It has also been regulated by EU-level legislation. In particular, the Commission has taken the view that, by a minimum definition established across Europe, there are certain areas for which it was possible to apply for agricultural payments so far, except from among the eligible countries, and these areas are no longer considered to be active agricultural land. These are, for example, the land under golf courses, the railway area, the land under sports courses, as well as the areas of airports which have so far been eligible under certain conditions, but which will be excluded in the future. In addition, there is now a debate in Brussels on whether it is possible for Member States to define specifically who is active and who is a passive farmer. The Estonian state supports the view that a Member State could have this right. If that right remains with us, we will definitely use it. So there's discussions going on. I very much hope that we will be able to distinguish between actual food producers and those who only care for land and cut grass.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U37	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo, the first question to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U38	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, You didn't tell me how long it might take you to create this definition. But I'm still interested in that kind of thing. Farmers have repeatedly proposed that you change the investment measure so that companies with an annual turnover of at least EUR 16000 and not EUR 4000 are eligible, as are the current plans. These companies could then be counted as taxpayers who have also contributed to labour taxes. What did you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U39	To continue with the previous response, let me talk about when the concept of active producer might become clear. I can't say that for good. This depends on when an agreement is reached in Brussels on whether Member States retain the right to define the concept of active farmers independently. I hope that the European Commission and the Council of the European Union will reach this decision in the coming months. Only then can we take our decisions. This concept must be defined at the latest once the Regulation has been approved. This can be done after the rural development plan has been approved by the European Commission, which is expected to take place at the end of this year, not before. You asked what level of eligibility for agricultural investments would begin, whether the turnover would have to be EUR 4000 or EUR 16000. Yes, here farmers have different proposals. Small producers and their representative organisations support the principle of a turnover of EUR 4000, while large producers support the principle of a turnover of EUR 16000. In fact, the Palette of proposals is even more written. There is also a proposal to link eligibility to, for example, taxes paid or labour and taxes paid on labour. So the proposals are very different. We are trying to find a golden middleway for those who actually produce, but also pay taxes to the state and create jobs. I'm sure we want to keep both sides in mind. We know that there are producers who do not have much labour and who may not always pay all the taxes properly. We want such producers to be clearly excluded from the beneficiaries.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U40	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo, the second point of clarification!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U41	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, You have begun to form a financial instrument within the remit of the MAK and, as it turned out yesterday, from the resources of the Fisheries Fund. So unrefundable money is converted into refundable money. What will then be the main application conditions and will other countries have started to form such financial instruments?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U42	Thank you. Yes, there are different countries with such financial instruments; almost all countries have them in the European Union. True, their sources are different. Not all countries create financial instruments from rural development funds, but they have other state budget resources and funds to do so. But I dare say that most Member States have such a financial instrument in place for farmers. We didn't have it in this financial period. During this period, we changed the principles of using the EFF's financial resources. We have already channelled money from the Fisheries Fund to the Rural Promotion Foundation for a financial instrument during this period and created this instrument. It has justified itself and given us confidence that it would also be reasonable to give farmers such an opportunity. The general attitude in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of Finance is that we must move towards the use of repayable aid instead of non-repayable aid, not only for agricultural measures, but also for other aid measures. This is the general direction, and I think this is the right direction. In this way, we will be able to expand the range of producers who will receive aid. The added value is that the money that is being recovered will remain at the disposal of the Member State itself and that the European Union will no longer impose restrictions or requirements on its use, but that the Member State will be able to implement its own policies. In this sense, this financial instrument is'reusable' and provides greater opportunities for the future. What are these terms, there's an argument about it. This topic is dealt with by the Rural Promotion Foundation. I believe that companies and the parties involved have received sufficient information from the MES and will receive further information in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U43	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter, the matter registered on the spot!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U44	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister of Agriculture! At the end of last week, a large number of beekeepers from all over Estonia gathered in Paide, who expressed great concern about what was happening in beekeeping. They are concerned that bees are dying on a massive scale. They do not consider it right that crops are sprayed with plant protection products during the day. What have you planned to do or what are the next steps to ease the beekeepers' concerns a little bit? Do you even see a problem here?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U45	Yes, this is a very topical and serious problem both in Estonia and around the world. It is not just about bees, the beekeeping sector and honey production, but about agriculture and the environment in general. The exact reason for the high mortality rate of bees worldwide, the high mortality rate of bees, has not been known. No water-resistant, scientifically proven justifications have been found. Large and capable countries also deal with these issues. At the end of last year, for example, the European Commission banned the use of neonicotinoids because they are thought to have a bearing on the death of bees. It is true that this has been debated and this decision has been called into question, but this decision was taken and Estonia is currently supporting the ban on neonicotinoids. Future studies will show whether this decision was justified and whether it could be allowed to be used again in the future. But right now I can confirm that this problem is being actively addressed both within and outside the European Union. We must certainly also strengthen national supervision of farmers in particular. Beekeepers' complaints that not all plant protection works are done as required by the legislation are indeed justified. These work must be carried out at a calm time and at a time when bees do not fly around, i.e. at night, such work must be announced in advance, etc. All the legal restrictions that should make the situation safer are simply not respected. So we also need to strengthen national supervision.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U46	The second issue registered on the spot. Rein Randver.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U47	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! As a Member State of the European Union, we have also made commitments in the area of the environment. Various activities have been planned to implement them, one of them being the MAK, or rural development plan. This development plan deals with the sustainability of agricultural production and food production on the one hand, but with the environment on the other. How do you assess, now that MAK is about to lock down, its environmental measures? Is there anything else to negotiate with stakeholders, or is everyone satisfied with what we have achieved? What do we look like compared to our neighbors?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U48	Thank you. Your question makes you feel like you once owned a portfolio of the Minister of the Environment. I can confirm that the largest part of the rural development plan is environmental measures. If we look at the financial proportions, we can see that environmental measures are the largest part. The European Commission has also made it a priority for all Member States to keep the rural development plan above all in mind environmental sustainability and sustainable use of resources. That's what we've been doing. Everybody happy? No, not by a long shot. Are the discussions over? No, not that either. As I said, we have not yet approved the rural development plan in the government. The debate in the government is still ahead and, as a result, there may be a need to renegotiate with target groups. We certainly need to negotiate with the target groups even after the rural development plan has been approved by the government. This is followed by the development of new measures resulting from the rural development plan. There are dozens of them. The involvement of target groups in the development of measures is inevitable, and that is what we absolutely must do. Of course, no consensus has been reached in the Steering Committee for the Rural Development Plan on the approval of the development plan. Target groups have different interests and desires, as was heard in this Chamber today. Small farmers have one understanding, big producers have a different one, environmental organisations have their own wishes, farmers have different ones again. There are very many stakeholders here, and there cannot be consensus and satisfaction. But I think that the rural development plan that we are presenting to the government has, however, tried to take into account the different interests and is balanced in the way that is currently possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U49	Thank you very much. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U50	Let's go to question four. Tarmo Tamm will ask the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi the question of 'Government of the Republic Order '2014. The distribution and extent, terms and conditions of distribution of the compensatory and support fund assigned to local government units by the State Budget Act 1994 on the draft law. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U51	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. In Question Time last week, the Minister of Education and Research stated that the draft regulation of the Government of the Republic in question was prepared by the Ministry of Finance on the basis of the wage model developed. How were the educational allowances included in the annex to the draft regulation born? Did you receive an input from the Minister of Education, or is it the work of the Ministry of Finance, as the Minister of Education claims?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U52	Thank you. I didn't hear the presentation of the Minister of Education, and I don't know exactly what he said. It is difficult for me to comment exactly on what you have said. But in all these areas, there is cooperation between the two ministries. Education policy input is always provided by the Minister of Education and the main role of the Ministry of Finance is to ensure that municipalities are treated equally and that their income base is in line with their obligations. That's how it's gonna be. Under no circumstances is it the Ministry of Finance that dictates the changes here. However, we have had quite heated debates about whether the new proposals take into account the principle that commitments must have financial cover. We have a different role to play. Cooperation has now reached the stage that we are about to discuss this issue in the government office.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U53	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm, the first question to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U54	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. This draft regulation was not made public until January. This regulation puts pressure on municipalities to close schools. If local governments only found out about this at the end of January or early February, how will they be able to close schools during this year? Where are the resources to be found, and should such decisions be taken by the municipality at such a high rate? Is this really a constructive approach?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U55	Thank you. First of all, the principles of money distribution have been known since the end of summer or at least autumn. There hasn't been any major change here. The publication of the regulation at the beginning of the year is no exception. There are a number of factors why it was not possible to discuss and formalise the Regulation earlier. However, I can say that there has been no reduction in the labour costs of any municipality, and these decisions are still made by the municipality. It cannot be said that the speaker here is pressing some municipalities to close the school. The Minister of Education has also said that Estonia's very high educational costs should go more towards improving the quality of teaching and raising the pay of teachers, rather than building more real estate for this money.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U56	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm, the second point of clarification!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U57	Thank you. When comparing the amount allocated to local governments for upper secondary school teachers in 2014 and 2013, we see that it has decreased in almost all municipalities. How is it possible to raise the salary of an upper secondary school teacher in this situation? Can you answer that, Minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U58	I don't think you're telling the truth. The size of the education budget will be decided in the state budget, and we will have these discussions ahead of us. I am never prepared in Question Time to confirm or contradict all kinds of accounts and statements. If you want a more detailed overview, I can say that if I answer the question, I can be more specific in my assessments.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U59	Thank you. Let's go to the issues registered on the spot. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U60	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Indeed, Aaviksoo replied to us that this was a project sent to the coordination circle. The table annexed to this draft showed that some local governments had a 40% and even higher reduction in funding for upper secondary school. This clearly shows that some kind of raise is out of the question. At the same time, the Minister stated in Question Time that this draft was a project and could be amended before it became a final document. Here's the question. Today is the end of February, but it has not become the final document. When will this regulation be finally debated and signed? How can it be that the salary should rise from the beginning of the year, but the document is still being made?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U61	Thank you. It is, once again, quite common in the case of educational expenditure that, at the beginning of the year, wages are divided according to the proportions of the previous year and changes take place in the autumn, at the beginning of the academic year. Yeah, it's a project, not a budget. Budgetary disputes, disputes in the country's budgetary strategy, as well as disputes in this regulation, are all just ahead of us. These are not definitive amounts. In the case of breakdown, the number of students in the municipality must be viewed. After all, changes take place, state secondary schools are being developed, which take part in the costs. So I guess this table doesn't read the truth alone.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U62	Thank you. Please ask another issue registered on site, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U63	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! We have been talking here for years about education reform and we have been trying to steer it. Here are two key words: teachers' pay and the school network. It is clear that, for obvious reasons, municipalities cannot manage to reorganise or contract the school network. Do you not have a feeling, or has the government not discussed that perhaps the state should intervene more forcefully in the contraction of the school network? Wouldn't that be right and wise, because then the pay problem would be solved?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U64	Thank you. This question is usually expressed as a reproach that the government is closing schools or putting pressure on them to close them. This question has already been answered today that it is not the decisions of the municipality, as long as the structure of the state is as it is. It cannot be denied that local authorities have different capacities, but ultimately they have to make decisions. The state has come here to help with the state gymnasium project. But there's no way this process is going. If the number of students has fallen drastically in some areas, there is no escape from making decisions about the school network. But these are the decisions of the local governments. [[???Sumin. Vahelehüüe: 'Neljas minister on saabunud.'???]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U65	Good guests on the balcony, please be a little lower! I don't even know where they're talking. Is it on the radio? Please keep it down, because the minister's answer is no longer heard. Please, Minister, do you have anything else to add? The minister is done. Thank you very much. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U66	It is now possible to ask more questions to ministers. Please state to whom you are asking a question and on what subject. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U67	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. I have a question for the Prime Minister. Estonia is known to have a birthday again in the coming days, 96. It has become common for the Prime Minister to give a speech in Tartu on 23 February. Has your speech been written yet? You announce your resignation on Sunday, as I read about Delfi. Is this section of the speech ready for you and will you submit such an application in Tartu on Sunday or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U68	The call's almost done, but it'll be ready when it's reported. I was just sitting here reading this Delfi article. It is certainly not true that the Reform Party's general assembly will elect a new chairman for the Reform Party on 2 March. That is, in principle, not possible. The Rules of Procedure of the Reform Party provide that the agenda of the General Assembly is to be notified one month before the General Assembly takes place. There is no election of a new chairman or board on the agenda, so Delfi is at least misguided on this matter. What else is or is not interesting about this speech will be known to the people on 23 February. I am, of course, gladly surprised that my speech is expected. These calls have always been very good, all eight times. Especially good was the two - year - old talk, which also responded widely. Last year there was a strong, well-written speech. Sometimes it doesn't work out, but this time I did it. But the resonance was relatively modest. Looks like that call wasn't read or at least not resonated. The speech was relatively critical, also for some journalists. Let's wait!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U69	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U70	Thank you. My question is for Finance Minister Ligi. This is about prices. Recently, economics doctor Ivar Soone published tables that show that prices in Estonia are very high. (I see that the Prime Minister is already giving advice there.) Ivar Soone says in his article that life in Estonia is over 5,7 times more expensive than in Germany. On average, goods in Estonia are 66%, or two thirds more expensive than in Germany. Considering the low incomes of people and the cost of a shopping basket, it turns out that life in Estonia is 5.7 times more expensive than in Germany. We can say that Estonia is now situated among the poorer developing countries in terms of living standards. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U71	Thank you. It is probably no coincidence that this star's article appeared in the Evening Paper. I got a finger on a plane in Brussels. A brief look at this article said that this person is not an economic doctor. When a person compares the prices of randomly selected supermarket chains, while looking at the price of a specific German sausage or wine in Germany and then comes to see what this thing costs in Estonia, and then finds that oh-oh, in Estonia it costs more, then that person is mistaken. As I continue in the Brussels mood, I can say that I know exactly that Belgian beer, which is my favorite beer, is very expensive in Estonia. Simply, German food prices in Estonia are indeed higher than in Germany, but average prices in Germany are higher. At the same time, Germany can be commended for the fact that prices there are quite moderate in European terms. One strong argument seems to be the structure of the consumer community. Especially in East Germany, the number of low-wage earners is very high, compared to the Nordic countries, for example, and this suppresses the price level. But yes, in Germany, prices are higher. I hope that the doctorate bar in Estonia will be higher in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U72	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U73	Thank you, Madam President. I also have a question for the Minister of Finance. In recent times, much has been said about the banks' almost non-existent income tax and the profits flowing out of Estonia, including the fact that companies, through their intra-group transactions, such as loans, are taking the profits out of Estonia and we are not taxing it. Colleagues Sõerd suggested that banks could voluntarily pay income tax. Do you have a better solution?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U74	Thank you. Well, banks can be viewed in different ways. They can be considered primarily as a source of public money. Fortunately, in our opinion, the banks have been more of an economic support. We have been lucky enough to receive a lot of foreign investment in Estonian banking, very good know-how and leadership. Of course, our income tax system encourages banks to increase their stamina, and they have done so. What has been the result? The result is a very different situation from that of the rest of Europe. Our taxpayer, the one who wants to get a tax from the banks, has not had to put money into the banks. We have not had to save any local banks, our banks have been well capitalised and run. It's more important than the liver. But the money that banks generate in the form of labour taxes is important. There have also been profits in the banks that have reached our budget. Unfortunately, I cannot present the details of tax secrecy on my own. But banks will be taxed, but above all, we will receive support for the economy and indirect support for the state budget as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U75	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U76	Thank you. I also ask Secretary of Finance Jürgen Ligi. I'm asking about the state budget this year. Does the honourable Minister of Finance sleep peacefully, or does he fear that this year's state budget will not be implemented in the planned amount? As we know, the state budget was put together when the growth forecast was 3.6%, but at present, economic growth is minimal, close to zero. Do you believe that the state budget will be filled in as planned?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U77	Thank you. We only have the January receipts now, and they were unusually large. The reasons are also more or less known, and they are not necessarily repeated in the future. In general, more stable taxes have been collected on a stable basis, but the company's income tax has been received unusually well. But I don't set my sleep mode according to one month's receipts.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U78	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U79	Thank you. I have a question for the Prime Minister, and it has something to do with, quite frankly, a mess in the Department of Defense. For five months, another man served instead of a friend. I have a question for you, Prime Minister. How do you assess the state of the Department of Defense in the field of film? Who will be punished for a story that cannot be marked with a positive sign?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U80	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U81	Thank you. The case is highly regrettable. Although I have not followed what has been discussed in the press closely, I have only done so on the level of the headlines, but I have realised that a fraud fighter has been discovered by now and is being punished. I guess even more attention needs to be paid to determining identity in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U82	Thank you, Madam President. I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture. We have now written many articles on bear breeding, nature conservation and economics. Hiiumaa has a good experience of how European mink is resettled. The Ministry of the Environment is moving towards banning the cultivation of minks, or American mink. What role do you consider to be important or not important in the farming of fur animals in Estonia? Doesn't the chosen direction ultimately cause Estonia to stop growing chinchillas or foxes? Where's it going?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U83	Thank you. The Ministry of Agriculture has not yet formulated its final position on this issue. We know that the Ministry of the Environment is working intensively on the subject and will make its proposals on it in the near future. Negotiations between ministries are also ongoing, negotiations at the level of officials of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of the Environment are taking place. This is a very complex issue because there is no common practice and policy in the European Union. There are Member States where bear farming is very limited and there are Member States where it is relatively free. In Estonia, fur livestock farming is real. You were talking about minks and European mink. Until recently, the requirements for fur farming were tightened by legislation, but the rearing of fur animals was not banned. If we want to ban something, we need to set a sufficiently long time limit for current operators to make all this economically sound and justified if, I stress, there is ever going to be a road to this. Secondly, it should then be explained why we chose this route, that we first imposed stricter requirements which required additional investments from producers, and then, after the requirements were introduced and the investments were made, we decided that this industry should be banned altogether. Surely, then, answers to such questions should also be found. The Ministry of Agriculture is working on this subject. We do not yet have a final position.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U84	Thank you very much. Question Time is over. Many thanks to the ministers and the questioners.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U85	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will begin the fifth working week session of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please, Mati Raidma!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U86	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, National Defence Committee s. a According to the 18 February decision, the National Defence Committee will initiate the draft Act amending § 6 of the Estonian Flag Act. The draft amends § 6 (1) of the Estonian Flag Act and sees Veteran Day as the flag day of 23 April. According to § 6 (1) of the Estonian Flag Act, flag days are, for example, Father's Day, Tribal Day, Knowledge Day and Native Language Day. Lauri Vahtre is the representative of the National Defence Committee when the bill is being processed in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U87	Thank you. Please, Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U88	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Group of the Social Democratic Party is today handing over a number of draft laws that are largely the same. It aims to make the political system more open and transparent, to involve voters and stakeholders in political decision-making also between the elections, not only during election campaigns, and to give the electoral vote greater weight in elections. We remember that in this Chamber we recently dealt with the draft law amending the political party law, which, unfortunately, in the course of the proceedings of the Riigikogu under the direction of the Constitutional Committee, only withdrew to make the party law cosmetic. The amendments were so cosmetic that the Social Democrats did not consider it possible to support this draft in the final vote. As the first draft of this package, I have the honour to hand over the draft law amending § 127 of the Political Party Act. This organises and amends the arrangements for funding political parties so that 50% of the monthly budget allocation is distributed equally among all political parties that have been elected to the Riigikogu and the remainder in proportion to the number of votes received among all political parties that participated in the Riigikogu elections, who collected at least 2% of the votes. Parties that did not exceed the electoral threshold but received at least 1% of the votes in the elections will receive EUR 10000 per year from the state budget. We believe that this is an important step to help equalise the party playing field and is a clear positive response to the accusations of the cartel of parliamentary parties. In sum, we think that this would benefit the democratic process of the Estonian party and be sensible.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U89	Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U90	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of handing over the so-called democratic package of the Social Democratic Party the second draft Act amending the Riigikogu Election Act. With this draft, we propose that the law be amended in such a way that no bail should be due to a party whose registration has not been completed four years ago. We also propose that an individual candidate be given a mandate even if the number of his or her votes is at least 75% of the basic quota, i.e. individual candidates are treated at district level as equivalent to political parties. Thirdly, we have a proposal to open 'national lists', i.e. on the national list candidates will be ranked on the basis of the ratio of the votes they have collected to the basic quota of the district. This would prevent candidates with a very small number of votes from receiving a compensatory mandate to the Riigikogu. Even if a total of at least 10% of the basic quota has been obtained in the constituency, bail could be paid back. We also have a proposal to reduce the national electoral quota from 5% to 4%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U91	Thank you. Please, Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U92	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft, too, is part of the same package, and it is not our 'democratic package' but just our 'democratic package'. I'm handing over a bill that puts a hand on advertising money. We believe that half a million euros a year is the limit that we Social Democrats can take. Flying the winds of unreasonable money to promote the party is, in the opinion of the Social Democrats, a nasty waste. That's why we're putting up a limit of EUR 500000 here. Everything that is transferred is classified as a forbidden donation and must be transferred back to the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U93	Please, Jüri Morozov!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U94	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of the Riigikogu, I hand over a draft which amends two existing laws and makes it possible for a member of the Riigikogu, after taking part in the local government council elections, to participate in the work of the council if he has been successful so far. In popular form, we want to change the laws that have made a member of the Riigikogu only because he has exercised his fundamental right, inevitably the decoy duck. We believe that it is not right to consider a local government council member's position as a state office. Our good colleague, Kaja Kallas, has rightly said in previous debates that one person is not automatically a state. After all, the Constitution clearly distinguishes local government from the executive state. Me and maybe none of us want to be a decoy duck just because they have adopted a vile law. Everyone must be able to decide whether or not to take part in the work of a local government council without hindrance. Unhindered participation of a member of the Riigikogu in the work of the local government council strengthens democracy, reduces opposition between the state and local level, and allows for substantive debate in solving problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U95	Thank you. Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U96	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I am handing over the draft law amending the Local Government Organisation Act. Despite the general principle currently laid down by law that each member of the Council has the right to belong to at least one committee, there have been cases where the political forces that received the majority in the Council have hindered the participation of minority representatives in the work of the committees as requested, which has forced minority representatives to even address the administrative courts in order to guarantee their rights. The draft provides, as a basis for the right to belong to committees, a personal request from a member of the council, balanced by the requirement that the lists of political parties and electoral associations which have been elected be represented proportionally in the committees. In order to involve representatives of minorities more democratically in the management of committees, the draft provides for the election of the chairmen and vice-chairmen of the committees of local government councils similar to those of the committees of the Riigikogu in the election of the chairmen and vice-presidents. The chairman and vice-chairman or vice-chairman of the committee shall be elected at the same time to the council. This procedure, which has fully justified itself in the activities of the Riigikogu, generally ensures that the deputy chairman of the committee belongs to the representatives of the political forces in the minority on the council. The purpose of the draft act is therefore to better ensure that the principle of democratic formation of the authorities of the municipality is respected in the activities of the councils and to ensure a proportionate representation of all electoral lists which have been admitted to the councils on the committees of the councils and the possibility for them to participate actively in the planning and management of the committees' activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U97	Thank you. Please, Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U98	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. As state-owned companies are often very large, large-scale companies whose activities or omissions affect a large number of Estonian people, it is very important that the decisions taken in these companies and their governing bodies are competent. That is why we propose that, in future, people should not be appointed to the councils of state-owned enterprises simply by a ministerial decree, but that the decision-making process should be much more broad and transparent and should be approved by the Riigikogu commission, whose administration belongs to the company. In addition, we believe it is right that MEPs do not belong to the boards of public undertakings. This would help to ensure balance and separation of powers. Consequently, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, I am handing over the draft law on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U99	Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U100	Ladies and gentlemen, The Member of the European Commission, who is called the European Commissioner, is one of the top officials in charge of the European Union. The success of the European Union as a whole depends to a large extent on the competence and ability of the person holding this office. Therefore, both each Member State and the European Union as a whole are certainly interested in making this position the best possible candidate. In Estonia, the presentation of a candidate for a commissioner is the exclusive competence of the executive power, the public and the Riigikogu have no substantive opportunity to participate in this matter. This makes it possible for the government to present a candidate not always and necessarily based on the competence of the candidate in European matters, but on other party or private interests. The Social Democrats who initiated the draft act consider that the right to appoint a candidate should belong to the Riigikogu in a parliamentary state. This would ensure a public debate on the suitability of the candidate and would enable the candidate himself to demonstrate his competence and commitment in European affairs within the framework of the parliamentary debate. I will give the Riigikogu a draft law on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U101	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U102	Good manager! Honourable Riigikogu! On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I am handing over the draft law amending the Law on the Home and Working Procedures of the Riigikogu. It gives work to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Sometimes some drafts say that if its first reading happens to be closed, it will remain on the Commission's shelf. We have already put a draft on this issue, as we are presenting today, into procedure, its first reading has been completed, and I have the suspicion that this draft is no longer even on the shelf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. For the simple reason that we have not been able to do even such a simple thing that the minutes of the committee meeting reflect how the members of the Riigikogu voted in committee, in favour or against. Thus, for the second time, we propose to amend the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, so that the work of the committees is more open and public, with the involvement of well-known civil society organisations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U103	No further drafts or enquiries are recommended. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted nine drafts. The Management Board of the Riigikogu decides to accept them in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. Now let's go to the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and has appointed leading committees for them. First of all, the draft decision of the Supreme Court's Chairman of the Supreme Court of 17 February, the'release of a member of the Supreme Court of Lea Laarmaa from the judicial office', the leading committee of which is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Secondly, the draft law amending the Land Tax Act, which was initiated on 17 February by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union and the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, which extends the land tax exemption for homeowners, whose commission is the Finance Committee. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has appointed a new commission on finance to the draft decision of the Social Democratic Party on 13 February of the Riigikogu to propose to the Government of the Republic. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded questions from members of the Riigikogu to Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas. The members of the Riigikogu have formed a support group for the Haapsalu railway. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. Currently, 87 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present and 14 are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U104	We are going to address today's agenda items. The third reading of the draft State Budget Act 513 initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Since this bill requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu to be adopted as a law, we will once again carry out a verification of the presence. Please, let's do the presence check! I'm sorry, but there's no need to check your presence. That was a very good point. Is there a desire to negotiate? I'm opening negotiations. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U105	Good manager! It's necessary to check in, but a little later. In my opinion, perhaps subjective, this is the most important draft of the four-year work of this Riigikogu. This is an extremely complex and important bill, because it is a process of shaping, negotiating, amending and improving the entire state budget. In my opinion, the draft itself is not so political as substantive. Therefore, the debate, which was very serious and very busy in the committee, could have been more active in the Riigikogu Chamber. But that's it. Our group will vote against this draft. This is mostly for one reason. The reason is that one very important issue in the planning of public expenditure is that long-term development plans and their funding just fall short of the final solution in the draft. Why am I saying this? Knowing that the Ministry of Finance is preparing such a draft, our group has abandoned the amendment of the relevant chapter of the current law and the improvement of the relevant sections. You know that it is always said that there is going to be a more complex solution than the government and a new complete text of the law, and there is no point in just correcting one paragraph. In this case, this comment would have been essentially correct, because making the whole budget is a little more serious and more substantial than changing only a few paragraphs. We do not want to make sector development plans lively documents where, apart from good ideas and intentions, there would also be obligations to implement them and to ensure that they are financed. It is therefore missing that we, as legislators, take the right of the Riigikogu to decide what is actually written in these development plans and not limit ourselves to discussing any political statements. What is lacking is that we have regular and clear control over these issues. That is why our group is voting against this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U106	Thank you. Next, please speak to Aivar Sõerdi!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U107	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law on the state budget is indeed one of the most important drafts that we are dealing with this season. The Committee on Finance has been working very hard on this draft since last autumn. It is certainly worth highlighting the work and contribution of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Ladies and gentlemen, The lessons learned from the past economic, financial and debt crisis have led to the need to amend the current budgetary rules. The innovations and regulations agreed by the EU over the last three years are unprecedented. New rules for better coordination of budgetary policies, regular follow-up and swift sanctions have been agreed. Lessons learned from past crises have clearly shown that the difficulties of one euro area Member State may spread to other Member States, so additional monitoring is needed to address the problems before they become systemic. The change of direction was a fiscal agreement agreed by the European Council and approved by the Riigikogu, as well as the approval of the Budgetary Framework Directive. As a result of the Fiscal Agreement, we must also confirm the requirement to draw up a balanced budget in the State Budget Act, as well as the obligation for the government to submit proposals for improving the budgetary position in the event of deviation from this balance requirement. If there is a structural deficit, measures to improve the budgetary position must be taken and the deficit adjusted to the same extent in government budgets in the coming years with a surplus. The fiscal agreement and, consequently, the regulations of this bill are essentially structured in terms of balance. But along with the structural balance, nominal balance indicators need to be monitored in order to get a comprehensive picture of the financial situation. The structural balance is largely estimated; it is difficult to measure, and it is particularly difficult to measure the component of the economic cycle. The adoption of the new State Budget Act is the foundation for moving towards more sound finances, creating a basis for preventing future crises. The much stricter fiscal rules so far must guarantee the credibility and sustainability of the economy and increase the strength and stability of the euro area as a whole. The agreed regulations will help the Union emerge stronger from the crisis and ensure that Member States move towards sound public finances. The measures taken and the new rules have already produced real results. This year, the general government deficit is projected to fall below 3% of GDP in both the euro area and the European Union as a whole, and the debt ratio will stabilise by 96% in the euro area as a whole and by 90% in the European Union as a whole. But high debt is still a problem. This burden shows that the risks have not been fully mitigated and there is still a long way to go to stabilise many public finances. It is now a priority for all Member States to implement these same regulations. In this State Budget Act, we transpose into national law the mechanism for automatic correction of the government budget balance rule. Today's law is also intended to safeguard and preserve the stability of our finances and our economy and to support the development of society and the economy as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U108	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U109	The euro area stands on a more solid footing, but it will, of course, take time before growth and employment are affected by the efforts made so far to stabilise the euro area. The recovery of trust takes time. Even once confidence has been restored, the real economy always reacts with a time shift. All in all, I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that the draft definitely deserves to be supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U110	Thank you. Please, Sven Sester! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U111	Ladies and gentlemen, I join all previous speakers in saying that the draft, which is going to be voted on today and in which quite a number of changes have been made in recent months, is very important. I read a press release several years old last night. The representatives of the IRL and Reform Party agreed at the meeting of the coalition presidency on 13 September 2010 that the balance of the state budget should be regularised in the basic state budget law. 'We share the understanding that the principle of budgetary balance is the common value of both parties and the goal that must be taken forward,' said Mart Laar, then chairman of the IRL. 'The budget balance remains our priority; we intend to continue to deal with it. We are pleased that the budgetary balance requirements that the IRL has put forward are reflected in the basic law of the state budget,' said the Chairman of the IRL. The time has passed, and now we are in a situation where a directive of the Council of the European Union imposes an obligation on Member States to lay down uniform rules for the general government to ensure budgetary discipline for the general government. The follow-up to the directive, the so-called fiscal agreement, sets out the rule of the government budget balance and the automatic correction mechanism, which will be triggered automatically in the event of a deviation from the criteria deriving from the rights of the European Union. According to the Treaty, the budget balance rule must preferably be fixed in the national constitution or law on the basis of which the annual budgets are adopted. In our example, this is the basic law of the state budget. This draft will transpose into our national law the Council of the European Union Directive on minimum requirements for the budgetary framework of the Member States. As a result of the draft, the rule of the government budget balance and the automatic correction mechanism laid down in the Treaty on the coordination and management of the stability of the economic and monetary union are fixed in Estonian law. It must be acknowledged that the processing of this bill in the Riigikogu did not go very easily. The bill arrived here in October. It was necessary to have a dialogue with quite a number of parties concerned by this draft. The partners were from the National Audit Office, local government associations and the Constitutional Committee to the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu and the Employers' Confederation. So during the proceedings of the Riigikogu there were various proposals. In the meantime, it was also said that perhaps this draft should be separated into two parts: one part would be linked to the Euro Directive and the other one to national regulation. We said, however, that we would rather proceed with one bill. What is certainly important is that, in the meantime, the reading of the draft had to be interrupted in order to allow the final result to be better settled. I can safely say that the draft that came from the government to the Riigikogu and the draft that goes from here to the table of the President of the Republic differ greatly from one another. At the same time, the bill is now ready to enter into force as a law. What were we doing in the Riigikogu during this period? I will give you a few keywords to make it possible to understand the role of the Riigikogu in converting the draft. Firstly, we have abolished restrictions on the establishment, reorganisation and termination of the legal entity of the central government. We set a deadline for the Ministry of Finance to explain the failure to take into account Eesti Pank's assessment and supplemented the regulation of strategic development documents, including an exception for constitutional institutions to the development plan for the area of government. We increased clarity by stating that the government will present the state's budget strategy to the Riigikogu without delay after its approval. There was no such regulation before. We added to the draft provision that the constitutional institutions would decide independently to adopt an activity-based budget. Due to the need to ensure the structural balance, we complemented the requirements for proposing amendments, and we returned to the national budget for determining the values of the compensatory fund and the figures on which the support fund is based. We have identified an acceptable level of risk for local authorities and dependent entities to allocate available funds. As a separate council, we set up a fiscal council at Eesti Pank in order not to place the tasks of the fiscal council on Eesti Pank. We have included in the Act a provision that the State Budget Act cannot include other provisions amending or repealing the Act. In order to ensure the independence of constitutional institutions, we provide an exception in the law that, like ministries, they are linked to 50% of the cost ceiling only if the Riigikogu has not designated otherwise with the state budget. In the event of disturbances or restrictions in the payment of payments from the state budget, disbursements to the constitutional institutions must be guaranteed. We will change the regulation of the financial control system, leaving it up to the head of each agency to decide on the specific measures to be taken to build it up. We make a number of changes to the Financial Management Act of the local government unit, which organises the system of financial rules. We state that the draft state budget submitted to the Riigikogu must comply with published laws and before submitting the state budget to the Riigikogu drafts initiated by the Government of the Republic. We also state that the amendment to the draft state budget must include all the exact wording of the changes to the revenue, expenditure, investment and financing operations of the draft state budget accompanying the amendment, and that the related changes will be presented as one amendment. We will specify the changes to the unemployment insurance contribution. We set out the fundamentals of policy as the type of strategic development documents. It's very important. It was not in the draft that came from the government to Parliament, but we added it here in the Riigikogu. This is a development document at the level of the Riigikogu, which is essentially a national value-bearing, long-term view and a comprehensive development document that describes the state's development vision in priority areas and whose adoption is exclusive to the Riigikogu. The IRL Group is of the opinion that if we adopt the new basic law today, we will, on the one hand, significantly improve the entire national regulation relating to the state budget, the processing of the country's strategic development documents and respect for financial discipline. On the other hand, we legitimise clear budgetary balance rules, I would even say clear rules of the game. As a result, in the future neither we nor the other parliamentary parties will have the opportunity, nor will we be tempted to live beyond our means by drawing up a state budget. IRL supports the completion of the procedure of the draft state budget law and the adoption of the draft as a law in the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U112	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U113	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Normally, when the government brings here a bill to make some changes to the law, it is figuratively a sick person that we need to treat. If we're talking about this bill of budget, we have to say we got a body here. He cannot be cured or resuscitated. He was already like this in the summer of last year, when coordination circles took place, and a huge amount of criticism was received from every ministry-office that had begun to deal with this draft. That's when they started fixing it. What result have we reached? If you think a fat child is a beautiful child, then I think you will be pleased that the new law has become much thicker than the current law: instead of 52, there are 126 and 45 pages instead of 13 pages. That's it. It is not just that the volume of the law has increased drastically. See, in the current State Budget Act, you can read, for example, the sentences that the budget classification is established by the Minister of Finance, the transfer of funds is made according to the procedure established by the Minister of Finance, or the procedure is established by the Minister of Finance or the Government of the Republic. There are six such references. Therefore, in order to make full use of the valid document, you will need six additional times or a regulation. Has anyone studied how many regulations and procedures are needed to use this new document? Twenty-one, maybe three and a half times that. This means that there is a much greater risk of new contradictions and problems arising from these regulations, which we cannot read now. But that's why bureaucracy has to live on something. This bill is crawling with strange things. Let's look in line. Paragraph 2 "Government and sub-sector of central government'. If you start reading this section, it turns out that there are three sub-sectors. They are not mentioned in the title. How am I supposed to take it? Is there only a sub-sector of the central government, or are there two rather important sub-sectors concerning the social life of local governments? Paragraph 4 introduces a matter such as the Fiscal Council. (I will talk as long as I have time, but I have comments on almost the whole bill.) As you understand, there is no such thing in the Eesti Pank Act, which is why § 85 of the Eesti Pank Act is amended. The Board shall be composed of six members who shall have an impeccable reputation. That's funny. Tell me any pretty boy name and give me an hour! (Interjection from the floor: "Mikhail! ') Better be Sven or Marko. In an hour, you'll find a lot in Google. There are no impeccable economic figures or politicians in Estonia. They just don't exist in nature! That's why, it's a matter of style. The rules for covering the costs and remuneration of the Board or its members shall be laid down by the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank. However, it has been said here that this Council must be completely independent. I wonder how the people you put to work and to whom you set your salary terms can be independent of you? There's more of that in the bill. For example, the old law contains § 373 'Stabilisation Reserve Board'. Point 7 states that the members of the Governing Council shall not be remunerated for their participation in the activities of the Governing Council. There is no such provision in the new law. Quietly, work is paid, once done in an old body, once in a new one, in order to achieve the necessary results in a slightly different way. This draft law is full of items such as Paragraph 6 (2): 'The law or the law must ensure that the budget of the legal person of the central government is drawn up and approved in such a way that the difference between the revenue and expenditure of the main activity for the financial year (hereinafter referred to as the result of the main activity) is balanced or in surplus. ' I'll take that as an imperative. After all, there is a provision in the law that you have put there as a separate point, that the difference must be balanced or in surplus. At the next point, however, the conditions under which this difference may not be balanced are spelled out. Why do these things? Why write 'balance' if the next item states that the intended result of the core activity may be in deficit up to 30% of the revenue from the main activity of the financial year? There are quite a few places like this. In my opinion, the most important thing is that the new basic law does not solve any problems of local government financing, not one. There is no provision here to comply with the European Charter for Local Government and to confirm that if a state imposes an obligation on a local authority, it will guarantee that it will be financed in full. There are no provisions required by the Republic of Estonia and every local government that ensure that the state does not do another foolish thing by reducing financing or starting some reform in half a day. We decided, after a long debate last year, that we would not propose amendments to this kind of crap. It's impossible, it would be easier to write a new law. It's a total glitch that's going to be repaired, I think, in a couple of months, when it comes to budgeting. The Estonian Centre Party Group does not support this draft and will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U114	Thank you. I'm closing the negotiations. Let us move to preparing the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed to the vote, we will have a presence check. Currently 86 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, 15 are missing. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I will put to the final vote draft state budget law initiated by the Government of the Republic 513. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 53) and 33 members of the Riigikogu with one abstention. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U115	We're going to the next item. The third reading of the Bill 462 of the Apartment Ownership and Housing Association Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Is there a desire to negotiate? Please, Marika Tuus-Laul! Eight minutes. [[Summing.]] Quiet in the hall, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U116	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I will point out the positive that the new law will bring. First of all, there's going to be a common law. When reading this, a person who lives in an apartment can familiarize himself with the rules governing his property, i.e. the provisions of the Apartment Ownership Act, the Housing Association Act, the Non-profit Associations Act and the Property Law Act are incorporated into a single law. In addition, this law solves a number of problems related to the Supreme Court's decisions, which have raised many questions and where judges have also had different opinions. Secondly, this law will mean that in the future, there will be a single register of housing associations, not right away, but only in the future, from which, for example, the buyer of the dwelling will receive information about the liabilities of the cooperative (in the case of houses with more than ten apartments). The building association's lien should also protect the members of the building association from paying the debts of some of the co-owners, for example, if the mortgage on the debt dwelling is for the benefit of the financial institution and the dwelling is forced to be realised. Thus, in the case of forced sale of the dwelling, it is the cooperative that has the right to receive 5% of the proceeds from the distribution. However, this law also raises a great many questions which neither the Minister nor the Commission rapporteur has been able to answer. Those questions are still in the air. The problems are not so much in large apartment buildings in large cities, where cooperatives are mainly created, but in small apartment buildings in small towns and rural areas. Estonia has a total of 21400 apartment buildings, but only 45% of these apartment associations have been established. The approximate number of housing cooperatives is 10000. Apartment associations are not created in houses with a smaller number of apartments. Basically, these little houses are half empty and quite depressed. The residents have managed to keep their apartment in order, but the house as a whole has not. Older people live there a lot. The owner of the dwelling is very often children of deceased parents who have been unable to sell the dwelling for several years and who live somewhere else. They too have debts because heating costs are higher in the country than in large cities. Moreover, they are not interested in producing larger sums of money to repair and heat the house, and it is not appropriate to invest a large amount in these houses. Many apartment owners work abroad and earn money for new and better housing. Utopian is also the idea of putting these people from half-empty houses together in random apartments, as has been suggested in this hall. Who, then, would give up their dwelling, where repairs have been made and home expenses have been paid, and what is his property? I mean, we really wanted to be the owner state. There's nothing you can do with force, and legally, it's impossible. If the owner gives up his property, the municipality will have nothing to do with their empty, often indebted apartments, because his income base has already been cut and he has no money to manage these apartments, to heat them and to pay their debts. However, we still have not received an answer to the repeated question in this Chamber of how the state can create a co-operative co-operative if people do not want it, they do not come together and they cannot choose the direction. According to § 66 of the Act, if by 2018 no housing association has been formed, the building association will be formed with the entry into force of the Act. But how it happens legally, we don't understand. No one has explained this and this mechanism has not been written into the law. At the same time, many owner-occupied apartments have been left empty in the country and neither the state nor the municipality can automatically take over. The law should provide a way to do this, but of course it cannot be done, nor can it make an entry in the land register, because it is not an asset without a host. What is it, expropriation, nationalisation, or what? We're about to privatize the apartments, now we're going to take it back! We also need to talk about the fact that the law contains the limit of ten apartments. I don't understand why the Association of Housing Associations proposed ten apartments as the limit. The country has mainly six, eight and twelve apartments, with very few houses with ten apartments. The Minister said in this Chamber that this law has been done for a long time, and it is a good law that has gone on three major rounds of coordination. But we ask why this bill has not been introduced more to the people of Estonia, after all, it affects about a million people in Estonia. Why aren't we interested in public opinion? We have heard many times in this Chamber a suggestion to go to court. This is recommended if, for example, the management of the cooperative refuses to provide any information, or if the building management company has entered into an agreement and has not informed the people about it. I think it's pretty crazy, because where people take this money and where the state takes these judges. It would be wiser to set up a committee, as proposed by the Centre Party Group, whether it is called by any committee of appeal or something else, or, for example, by an authority of the type of Labour Inspectorate. If you say that there is no money and this committee or body is going to be expensive, I will ask whether it is cheaper to hold hearings. So such a commission could be in larger municipalities, in cities, but also in rural areas, such as rural governments, of course, as long as they exist. We find that people are left alone with their problems. The Group of the Estonian Centre Party believes that such a crude law cannot be passed. We will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U117	Thank you. Please, Margus Hanson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U118	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Today, it is a pleasure to note that a long-term draft has reached the final vote. The Apartment Ownership and Housing Association Act has been prepared since 2006. The draft initially found opposition from both the Estonian Association of Apartment Cooperatives and the housing associations themselves. Before sending the draft to the Riigikogu, however, three coordination circles took place in government institutions and there have been many meetings with partners. The draft was also perhaps one of the reasons why a support group for housing cooperatives was convened in the Riigikogu in spring 2011. This was still done in order to argue amendments with the parties and to try to help find a common section and eliminate differences before the draft Riigikogu came into operation. There were differences of opinion, after all. Even the third round of coordination received 67 amendments from the Association of Estonian Apartment Cooperatives and 40 proposals or questions from the Legal Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu during the proceedings, all of which were discussed alone in the committee. Many amendments have also been taken into account at various stages of the procedure and the law has improved. The law makes the legal framework relating to the ownership of apartments and the activities of the building management company much more modern. The law has become simpler, people, i.e. owners of apartments, no longer have to seek law in several laws and also in judicial decisions. Upon the entry into force of the Act, all housing associations and their obligations are entered in the public register of housing associations. As the previous speaker said, this gives an opportunity, for example, to get information about the obligations of the cooperative from public sources when buying an apartment. The right to pledge a housing association is another new approach to this law. This should protect the building management company and its members from paying the debts of some of the co-owners if the debt-debted apartment has a mortgage in favour of the financial institution and the dwelling is realised. Clearer regulation of decision-making, including rules on borrowing and building modernisation, is an important addition. The insolvency of housing associations is also regulated, but many other problems remain. The date of entry into force of the Act is set at 1 January 2018. According to the Minister of Justice, such a long time is due to the need for preparatory work, including those which require financial resources from the Government. Money is needed, for example, for the development of software for the registry. I hope, however, that the Government of the Republic will seek and also find a way to implement the register of housing associations earlier under the e-Governance programme. It would therefore be possible to make changes in the future and bring forward the deadline for the entry into force of the law. In any case, the Reform Party Group supports the adoption of the Apartment Ownership and Housing Association Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U119	Thank you. Please, Siim Kabrits!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U120	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The IRL Group supports the adoption of the draft as a law. By adopting the law, housing relationships in apartment buildings are brought to a level playing field. Instead of the two laws so far, there is a single, clear and 'thin' framework that gives good faith actors the opportunity to solve their problems. If all the problems in the field were to be recorded in the law, then a very thick law could be drawn up. But we can't anticipate all the problems and we can't solve them all. This law began to be prepared in 2006. During these seven or eight years, compromises had to be found. The common interests of the double house with two apartments and an apartment building with 100 apartments in Lasnamäe were to be found. The common interests of apartment buildings in Abja-Paluoja, Viljandi, Tartu, Pärnu and Tallinn were to be found; the value of apartments in these buildings may vary up to a hundred times. If the law is often intended to have a longer vacatio legis, then the opposite is the case with this bill. The date of entry into force of the Act is 1 January 2018 and is expected to be shorter. However, it is sufficient time for the author of the bill to introduce the draft to those people who wish to solve the problems of the building management company and to tell them how the draft law sees solutions and what opportunities it offers. There's been an update in the law. We're more protective of the interests of housing companies. For this purpose, a senior institution of the building management company has been set up. A register of housing associations is also established. But the law can't regulate everything. Although there was a desire to regulate during the procedure and to fix the temperature of the apartment and everything else in the law, it should be taken into account that the law is not intended to regulate everything in the apartment building until the time of the neighbors' awakening and meals. There was also the desire of certain delegates for such a great leader that there would be someone who would decide everything and argue all the disputes. This was the subject of the so-called debate committee. However, we must move towards the owner society and this is a society of agreements. All of us have our rights and obligations, and we need to find compromises. We are the owners of our country, and we are also owners of the housing company, and we are in the hands of creating a better living environment. The adoption of the draft law as a law gives every opportunity to do so. As has been said, the IRL Group supports the adoption of the draft as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U121	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Let's start preparing the vote. The Commission's proposal is that draft 462 should be put to the final vote. The draft requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu to be adopted as a law. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, we will do a presence check. Currently 76 members of the Riigikogu have registered as present, no 25. I am voting on draft law 462 on apartment ownership and housing associations initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 55), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 16 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U122	Today's third item is the third reading of the draft law amending and implementing the law on law enforcement initiated by the Government of the Republic. Is there a desire to negotiate? Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U123	Ladies and gentlemen, Normally, when ministers present a bill in this Chamber of Riigikogu, they say that it is a good bill. Minister of Justice Hanno Pevkur almost always says so. On this bill, he also mentioned the beauty of a long time. For a long time, this bill has indeed been done. A little less than a year ago, the last step of this work began when the draft that is on the table today, but the preparation of this implementing law began years ago at the Ministry of Justice. The year was then 2007. The main text of the Law Enforcement Act was adopted in 2011. If more is to go back in time, it must be said that this draft is intended to complete the law enforcement reform that started in Estonia at the end of the 1990s. The question arises: if one draft law has been made for so many years, then the final phase of this work in the Ministry proved to be such a cull that it had to be amended, renewed and improved in the Commission and in the ministries. The fact that other ministries also made many improvements shows that the draft was not properly coordinated. Even in this hall, the bill was withdrawn. The more controversial it seems is the Minister's speech in this Chamber years ago when he handed over the draft. The main focus of his message then was that the debate on the comprehensive and systematic design of law enforcement law was held already when the main text of the Law Enforcement Act was discussed and should not be discussed or discussed further. Come on, the fact that the draft text was tabled by the draft authors themselves with over 150 amendments shows the poor quality of legislation and also calls into question the fulfilment of the objective of the law. Although, yes, we all understand in this Chamber that the law of law enforcement is needed, but the 'internal order' of this draft itself has really left much to be desired. In addition to everything else, it should be noted that the Ministry of Justice included provisions on advertising for financial services in the draft. The European Commission and the European Parliament have opened formal infringement proceedings against Estonia, precisely in relation to advertising of financial services. As a reminder, we addressed the European Union directive on responsible lending, including consumer credit advertising, in the Committee on Legal Affairs a year ago. We then introduced more relaxed requirements for consumer credit advertising, more specifically for express credit advertising, than the directive provided for and defied the provisions on consumer protection requirements. That is why infringement proceedings were opened. I think that if the comments of the Centre Party Group had been heard last year in the Committee on Legal Affairs, there would probably have been no need to open infringement proceedings. In order to avoid or mitigate the consequences of the infringement procedure for Estonia, the Minister asked for these provisions to be adopted as a matter of urgency, together with another law, not by submitting a separate draft law for this purpose. These provisions were now put into the draft law on law enforcement. So this is also a cluster bill. However, when it comes to ensuring order more generally, we may be talking about good or less good laws, but their efficiency is actually zero if there are no people who apply these laws, if there are no policemen and we do not increase the number of officials who will ensure order or raise their wages. It is only after we have done so that we can talk about better protection of fundamental human rights. The Centre Party Group is of the opinion that the draft that is going to be voted on today will not end the reform of law enforcement, as there is a lot of incomprehensible in the draft and there is no internal order. This issue still needs to be dealt with at length. We cannot vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U124	Thank you. Please, Marko Pomerance!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U125	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to assure you that the situation is not so tragic. I have always told Mr Savisaar that Mrs Tuus-Laul is a very strong colleague in the Committee on Legal Affairs and a good person, but I have to say now that these 150 amendments were not related to anything other than the introduction of a new type of supervision, i.e. administrative supervision. Debate on the bill was peaceful. I recommend that everyone support it without any worries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U126	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The Commission's proposal is that draft 424 should be put to the final vote. We are preparing for the final vote. Since this bill also requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu to be adopted as a law, we will carry out a verification of the presence. Currently 75 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, 26 are missing. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on draft law on the amendment and implementation of the law on law enforcement initiated by the Government of the Republic 424. Please take a stand and vote. 64 members of the Riigikogu voted against and 1 against, with no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U127	Today's fourth item is the second reading of the draft of the Riigikogu decision 'Accepting the'Transport Development Plan 2014-2020' presented by the Government of the Republic. I ask for a presentation by Kalev Kallo, member of the Chair of the Economic Commission!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U128	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The approval of the Decision'Transport Development Plan 2014 was initiated by the Government of the Republic. a on 11 December. The first reading took place in s. a January 22nd. The deadline for submitting amendments was 5 February, but no amendments were received by the Commission at that time. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the referral to second reading at its meeting on 10 February. The Commission expressed the view that the design of the development plan is uneven: at times the plan is very detailed, but in some other places there are no indications of large investments. As an example, the development of a deep port in Saaremaa was introduced from a cruise ship port to a commercial port for which there are no indications in the development plan. It was stated that although the Commission had the opportunity to submit proposals, as well as proposals, during the preparation of the development plan, only some of them were fully taken into account in the development plan. The Commission made its proposals. We decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 11 February (this decision was taken by consensus) and we also decided to propose that the second reading be terminated and put to the final vote (also by consensus). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U129	Thank you very much. There are questions for the waitress. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U130	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, I would simply like to remind you whether this plan indicates how excise duties on fuel will be used in the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U131	There was one proposal that was submitted to the Ministry before the development plan was approved. The Commission considered that this should not be fixed in the development plan because it would then be possible to change the distribution between local government roads and national routes in the future. But the Ministry didn't take into account the Commission's proposal and the development plan has now fixed that 10% of the excise duties on fuel will go on local roads.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U132	Thank you. Please, Peep Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U133	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Your brief summary was quite interesting, we heard a number of critical aspects. Was anything good said about this development plan in the Committee on Economic Affairs, in addition to the decision to refer the draft to the final vote?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U134	I reported here what was discussed in the committee. As no amendments were received, no further discussion was held before sending the draft to second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U135	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much, Kalev Kallo. Is there a desire to negotiate? Please, Kalev Kallo, the floor is yours!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U136	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I will talk about this again. Now I will start with the positive side of the development plan. It can certainly be considered positive that the development plan was brought to the discussion of the Committee on Economic Affairs before the government was approved, particularly at the initiative of the chairman of the committee. The Economic Commission was able to make appropriate proposals on the development plan. There were six of them. All the proposals put forward by the Commission were voted through, and only those that received the majority's support were included in the proposal. After the development plan had been approved by the government and the Riigikogu had already received an official procedure, it became clear that one of the amendments proposed by the Economic Commission had been disregarded. This was a proposal not to fix in the development plan that a specific percentage, or 10%, of excise duties on fuel would be received by local authorities. Such a provision is known not to allow the municipal road network to be repaired because in the meantime there was under-financing of 5%, and therefore road maintenance difficulties have arisen. This allocation should be increased where possible. However, it was this point that the Ministry failed to take into account. As the Commission could understand, this was a cynical attitude of officials in the Committee on Economic Affairs. When I asked the Commission a question about this before sending the draft to first reading, the Minister may have understood it a little differently at first and began to explain why this percentage should not even be planned there and why this allocation should remain open. However, when the official showed him that 10% had been included in the plan, the minister quickly made a 180-degree turn and began to prove how good it was that 10% had been fixed there. I dare say it's in this development plan like a tar drop in the honey pot. If you take the development plan as a whole, it has been quite thoroughly worked out. It could always be better, but the Commission did not receive very many proposals from partners, transport organisations, which also showed that the plan had been relatively well developed. But it is, yes, the tar drop of this plan that until 2020 it is fixed that it will not be possible to allocate more than 10% of the excise duty to local roads. Of course, you can talk about all kinds of stories, for example, that if there is a better year and more money, you can also allocate a higher percentage, but it is generally known from practice that there will always be a reference to a development plan with a fixed 10%, and no more can be allocated. Based on the fact that this tar drop still ruined the honeypot, the Central Party Group considers that the development plan cannot support or fix underfunding of local government roads until 2020. Our group will vote against the adoption of this development plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U137	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. No amendments to the draft were received. The Commission's proposal is that draft 560 should be put to the final vote. We are preparing for the final vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U138	I will put the 560 bill to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 57), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 9 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The resolution of the Riigikogu's'Transport Development Plan 2014 has been approved by the Government of the Republic of Estonia 560 has been adopted as a decision. The fourth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U139	Let's move on to item five. The second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, entitled "Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State on the European Union peace-building mission in the Central African Republic', begins. I ask the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the National Defence Commission Mati Raidma!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U140	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft under discussion was presented by the Government of the Republic. a on 27 January 2008. The first reading of the draft was completed on 12 February. Already earlier, on 30 January, the National Defence Committee had unanimously decided that if the first reading of the draft was completed, the second reading would take place on 19 February. No amendments to the draft were tabled by 10.30 a.m. on 17 February. The text at second reading is therefore identical to the text at first reading of the draft, which was presented as amended. Representatives of the initiators support the wording of the draft. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to second reading at its meeting on 17 February. This session was attended by Mr Sven Sakkov, Deputy Secretary of Defence Policy at the Ministry of Defence, Erkki Tori, Deputy Head of the Political Planning Department, Hestrid Tedder, Adviser to NATO and the European Union Department, Kalle Kirsss, Legal Adviser to the Legal Department, Lieutenant Colonel Rain Jano, Head of the Operational and Training Department of the General Staff of the Defence Forces, and the Representative of the Intelligence Battalion of the Defence Forces. The representatives of the initiator of the draft act briefed the National Defence Commission on developments in the Central African Republic and the current developments in the European Union mission. At its meeting on 17 February, the Committee on National Defence unanimously approved the text of the draft explanatory memorandum and second reading. The United Nations Security Council took s. a on 28 January 2004 adopted Resolution 2134 which laid the foundations for the European Union peace-building mission in the Central African Republic. Information on this was provided by the National Defence Committee in the explanatory memorandum to the draft decision submitted as amended for the first reading and in the first reading report of the draft decision. On 10 February, based on a United Nations Security Council Resolution, the Council of the European Union, by its Decision No 2014/73/CFSP, decided to launch the European Union Peace Mission in the Central African Republic. The acts referred to by the United Nations Security Council and the Council of the European Union are available on the homepages of these institutions and paper copies are also available in the Committee on National Defence. The decision of the Council of the European Union shall specify the objectives, scope, general conditions, operation commander, headquarters, common costs, etc. Commanders have been assigned to Mission Command Commands, an operational plan has been drawn up and a military process has been initiated. The decision of the Council of the European Union mission also provided the basis for the start of preparations in the mission area. During the preparatory phase, the operations area may be accompanied by those units which the operation commander considers necessary there. According to an initial assessment, the first units in the preparatory phase could reach the Central African Republic by the end of February of this year, which would be unprecedentedly urgent in view of the planning of the European Union's missions so far. The military process of the European Union mission has begun. The next military conference will take place at the end of February this year. It is now known that contributions to the unit, staff officers or logistical support are considered by Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Estonia, Spain, Greece, Lithuania, Latvia, Poland, Portugal, France, Sweden, Romania, Germany, Finland and the United Kingdom. Georgia, which is not part of the European Union, is also ready to contribute with the entity. It is important for the United Nations and a Member State of the European Union (EU) Estonia to contribute to the implementation of the common security and defence policy of the European Union, including participation in the European Union peace-building mission EUFOR RCA referred to in point 1 of the draft, or the European Union military operation in Central African Republic. On 17 February 2014, on the basis of § 109 of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, the National Defence Committee decided to propose to the Riigikogu to stop the second reading of the draft decision, to put the draft to a final vote and to adopt it as a decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U141	Thank you. You have questions. Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U142	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, You have read the list of countries that have decided to provide logistical support to this mission, either with staff officers or otherwise. But please specify what are the countries that have decided to send a specific contingent there today, no matter how big it is, 20 or 50 military personnel, if we exclude staff officers, air transport, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U143	Thank you. I can point out in my reply those countries for which there is public information today. It's about making decisions everywhere. Like us, in other countries, this mission requires Parliament's decision. Of course, France will be participating with the military, and if we make a decision today, we will also be participating in it. Poland has spoken of 140-150 foot soldiers, 50 in Romania, 50 in Latvia, 50 in the Portuguese Infantry Group, 40-50 in Spain, and 20-100 in Finland, according to different estimates. Sweden is discussing the dispatch of a company-size unit, assuming that Parliament's decision will come in the near future. I am currently restricting myself to these countries of the European Union, but other countries may also come up with precise figures at some point.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U144	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U145	Thank you. The Minister of Defence did not want to give a precise answer to this question at first reading; his answer was contradictory. If Estonia sends 55 Defence Forces to the Central African Republic, will they be subject to the same restriction of interference as all other European Union troops? If this limit is the same, would you not explain what the limit is?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U146	Thank you very much. Estonia goes to the Central African Republic as part of the European Union mission. The specific legal principles are set out in this Council decision, which I mentioned. There are detailed answers. But the general answer is that we must follow the rules of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U147	Margus Hanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U148	Thank you. This mission is known to be in English. Those people who watched the movie from Central Africa on Monday evening know that it will certainly benefit from French proficiency if our unit has direct contact with local residents. Will this occur and what tasks will our unit perform there?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U149	Thank you very much. The situation on the ground is indeed difficult, but, firstly, the geographical and linguistic specificities of the mission's contributors will certainly be monitored in the process of planning the European Union mission. Secondly, we must bear in mind this principle, which is why we went along very positively with this idea in the first place. Indeed, if the French receive the support of the European Union mission in the capital, they will be able to move their forces out of the capital to other crisis regions. It was from these regions that the documentary gave more information. At the moment neither the Ministry nor the General Staff of the Defence Forces have any information that Estonia should proceed to the field in carrying out its tasks. Rather, it is likely that our defence forces will retain the function of staff protection.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U150	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U151	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You read important passages from the explanatory memorandum to us. When you read the first paragraph of page 2, you failed to read one important sentence in my opinion: 'The mission will be launched by a decision of the Council of the European Union, which is expected to take place at the beginning of March. " Can I conclude from this that an important document is not adopted, which is precisely the order to launch the mission? Does this mean that, in a sense, Estonia is moving ahead of time with its actions?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U152	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U153	Thank you. This third decision cannot come unless there are participants in the mission. The order of the decisions was as follows. First of all, the Estonian media also made a fundamental decision at the meeting of foreign ministers in Brussels. Then the Council of the European Union decided to launch the mission, as mentioned in the explanatory memorandum. At the moment, as I mentioned in my speech, the process of national contributions is perhaps decided on how much and what the parties can put out. This process also includes a mandate to participate in the mission in each country. This is happening differently in different countries. In Estonia, this is the competence of the parliament, but in some other countries it happens differently. If there is an ally with a mandate and a decision to start this mission, then an Implementing Decision will be required. What is also mentioned in the explanatory memorandum is an implementing decision that cannot be adopted until there are those powers that have obtained the mandate.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U154	Thank you. Good colleague! The night before yesterday, there was a long film on television about what was happening in the Central African Republic. The situation is really bad there. After watching the movie, I did some research on the history of this country. It turned out that already 110 years ago Belgium and France signed the first agreement, proving that France had its own interests there 110 years ago. In this respect, I would like to know who is responsible for this situation now and why others need to improve this situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U155	Thank you. I come back to the idea of a UN Security Council resolution. What is the mission and objective of the European Union peace-building mission? Support the United Nations Mission in BINuca and the English term United Nations Integrated Peacebuilding Office in Central African Republic. In fact, it is the United Nations whose main task and mandate is to build this crisis-stricken and now in chaos. Peace-building missions and military operations are designed to enable this process to be effectively launched and carried forward, not to solve all the problems in the Central African Republic. I'll give you the answer from this point of view. Who's to blame? It's hard history.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U156	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U157	Thank you. Honourable waitress! The draft decision is entitled 'Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State on the European Union peace-building mission in the Central African Republic'. Paragraph 8 of the International Military Cooperation Act refers to as the basis for the decision. However, this Article 8 refers to the use of the Defence Forces in other international military operations. § 6 also talks about participation in an international military operation. The title of the draft decision refers to a peace-building mission. Is this the equivalent of a military operation, or are we doing something different than the French?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U158	Thank you. A military operation is a general concept. For example, international missions within the European Union are divided into two: civilian missions and military missions. Military missions, in turn, are peacekeeping missions, peacekeeping missions, training missions, etc. The term'military mission' is used in the text of the draft act as a general term. According to good practice and tradition, the Riigikogu has really not used this term much in drafts. One supposed reason can be found in history. The word 'war' has two meanings in Estonian: war and military. For the Estonian, the expression "military operation" and "military mission" may have a slightly different background. It has been good practice in the Riigikogu to give a mandate to missions that we have used the concept of peacekeeping mission, peacekeeping mission or training mission. They do not contradict the concept of a military mission, because one is a general concept and others show the specifics of the mission.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U159	Ülo Tulik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U160	Thank you, President of the sitting. Mr. Chairman of the National Defence Commission! My question is motivated by Mr Hanson's question of communicating with the community. In the National Defence Committee, it was discussed that three French interpreters would be sent by our Defence Forces. Is this the case with current data?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U161	Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U162	The Commission was the last place this debate was held, and that is where the information came from. I think the number of interpreters depends on the mission. However, there is still time to set a specific task, i.e. the mission has not yet received a mandate.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U163	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Can you also tell us how the Defence Forces are planning to set up a unit within the deployment limits? Is there a chain of command or a voluntary approach that is characteristic of a warrior?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U164	Thank you. Let me be clear about the limit. The press has also asked why 55 militias, maybe 32 would have been a better number. These operations have an important unit-centred approach, which is what sets the limit. With regard to the preparation of the Defence Forces and whether they are going on a voluntary mission, all international missions will be carried out voluntarily by the Defence Forces and by the professional Defence Forces on missions. The Defence Forces have developed a contingent of professional Defence Forces with a strong mission experience. The various forms of international military cooperation are an integral part of the defence of the Estonian state and the tasks of the Defence Forces. It is not true that the defence forces have focused only on their own defence capabilities. Collective defence and the fulfilment of the international obligations arising from it are a natural task of the Defence Forces.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U165	Tõnu Juul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U166	Honourable Vice President! Dear waitress, My question concerns logistics, which, given the distance between the Central African Republic and Estonia, will be very costly. In France, logistics has great abilities and is also an interested party. Has he handed us a hand in logistics and transportation?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U167	Thank you, my good colleague. I'll mention the latest news. I was at the meeting of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly Commission in Brussels on Monday. In the hallway, I met Estonian Defence Forces who are currently negotiating these topics with French colleagues as well as others who will contribute to this mission.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U168	Mart Nutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U169	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! A few days ago, Amnesty International approached a number of countries in the world with a request to prevent or contribute to the prevention of a humanitarian disaster in Central Africa. Has Amnesty International or any other organisation directly addressed the Estonian authorities or even the National Defence Commission, or have they all been general appeals?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U170	Thank you. These have been general appeals. But since the humanitarian disaster has been mentioned here, I would like to point out that Estonia is not limited to the contribution of its defence forces. Through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Estonia has already allocated and allocates more financial resources to humanitarian organisations. I have also heard today that there have been many offers for the involvement of our civil servants, looking at BINuca's operation in the Central African Republic more broadly. So it is certainly not just 55 Defence Forces with whom Estonia is contributing to resolving this crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U171	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U172	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, As we know, countries contribute differently to defence spending. Estonia is known to contribute 2% of GDP, while France contributes 1%. Why should Estonia support countries that do not want to contribute enough to their defence spending?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U173	Thank you. We support it and we contribute to ensuring that Europe takes the common defence and security policy seriously. Distance from this is not in the interest of Estonia's security policy. The launch of a process in which members of the European Union can contribute quite quickly to the external mission provides a basis for hope that, within the European framework, defence and security policy will also receive a stimulating injection.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U174	Good waitress, thank you for your report and your answers. No further questions. They want to negotiate. I open negotiations and ask Marianne Mikko for a speech chair in the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U175	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Democrats oppose sending an Estonian peacekeeping mission to the Central African Republic. There are many reasons for this. A week ago, we discussed here the reasons for going to the Central African Republic. For dozens of questions, we received more thorough or superficial answers from the Minister of Defence. It must be acknowledged, however, that the basic question has not been answered. Why do we, and why do we now want to shoulder this extraordinarily difficult mission? In order for it to be made of wood and red, I would say that the repeated statement that it is an ally is not true. The government led by Andrus Ansip has tried to sell us the idea that meeting France's request and going together to the Central African Republic on a military mission means the same thing as Article 5, or 'One for all, all for one' in NATO. In other words, it is an ally. But it's not. Once again, no, it isn't. Going on a military mission of the European Union is a show of solidarity, and as a result the scenario is not going to start, that when Tallinn is conquered, Paris will be rushed to the aid of Estonia. Secondly, where is the Africa Strategy? If not, what is the force that forces us to contribute to the Central African Republic? The Black Mander is many times more colorful with dozens of countries than the former French colony near the equator, which is literally called a failed state. Figuratively speaking, at the invitation of the French, we are blazing to Africa without knowing what we ourselves really expect and want from Africa. Let us ask straight: Which is more important, strategy or tactic? Why do you have to jump first and then make a point? Thirdly, in those days, the head of the European Union's foreign policy, Catherine Ashton, said that the size of the European Union's military mission should now be no longer 500 but 1000 people. This was followed by news on the potential contingent of Turkey, which holds endless accession talks with the European Union. Georgia has also demonstrated its readiness to participate. When we talk about the European Union peace-building mission, it is really about whether the country is sending its people in the field to face the humanitarian crisis. We have now heard that one third of the governments of the Member States of the European Union are about to allow their army to be sent to Africa in one form or another. One-third! At the meeting of the National Defence Commission on Monday, the Social Democrats were unable to clarify who, from the very beginning, in March next to the French and Estonians, would have a gun in their hands, guaranteeing peace. Some countries only reach the field in May; others have not yet received a mandate from their Parliament, as confirmed by Mati Raidma. Thus, one third of its participation is promising. Let us conclude from this that two-thirds of the operation will not, however, participate. Great powers such as Great Britain and Germany are in the background, and their soldiers in the field do not guarantee peace. As regards Finland, it is said that the infantry should participate, while the former Minister of Defence, Elisabeth Rehn, has frankly said that the inability of Finnish infantry to communicate in French is a major obstacle to the formation of the Central African Republic mission. Let me ask you, who of our men speaks the Sango language that the locals speak? We have as little French as we do in Finland, only our Minister of Defence thinks that English can do excellently in Central Africa. As the French documentary screened on Monday in Estonian Television showed, language skills are not just necessary but essential; it is more or less a matter of life and death. The Social Democrats offered the Prime Minister the opportunity to provide EUR 2.7 million for development aid found overnight for the Central African Republic mission. He didn't accept that idea. I don't understand why we can't trust the African Union and African soldiers in the military sense in the Central African Republic. Why are we reluctant to bet with staff officers like we do in Mali? Why do we want our soldier to play a global police officer in Africa while his child has no kindergarten place at home? More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U176	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U177	Why does the government quickly find 40 million for a soldier's father in the old sense for four months, while at the same time three times as much can not be allocated to solve the problem of the Estonian children's kindergarten? Is this Estonia today, where a man has to earn heavy money on a foreign mission to pay off his child's private day care place? Grand old lady Madeleine Albright is critical of both the operation in Somalia and the operation in Rwanda. He recalled how ten Belgian peacekeepers were cut to death. This, of course, meant the swift withdrawal of Belgium from the Rwandan operation. What are we gonna do when the knives-axes go off? In the opinion of the Socialists, too many questions were not answered. On the other hand, the Minister of Defence gave us brief answers on solidarity. The Social Democrats do not support unjustified military missions, those where we can end up in a situation that is nothing more than a bloody civil war, where we have chosen an unaccounted party. We call for Estonian soldiers not to be sent to the Central African Republic!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U178	Thank you. I'm asking for the Riigikogu's speech chair, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U179	Ladies and gentlemen, A number of speeches have already been made on the Central African Republic mission; they were also held at first reading. I will briefly explain to you why the Centre Party Group has decided not to take part in the vote today. We will not vote against the Central African Republic mission because this mission has a mandate from the United Nations Security Council and is a European Union mission. We will not vote in favour of this mission either, because Estonia is not such a powerful war country that it will be able to send its men to every crisis area in the world. Did you notice that we're sending as many defence forces as Spain with 46 million inhabitants? We send our Defence Forces to a mission area where no major countries, such as Germany, Great Britain or Italy, will send them. We cannot be in favour of this bill either because the Minister of Defence is wiggling about what our Defence Forces are waiting for on this mission. Mati Raidma, Chairman of the National Defence Commission, said that the rules for using force will be uniform. These rules for using force were not yet decided by the Council of the European Union on 10 February. They were said to be determined in the course of the work. We didn't get that clear answer from the Secretary of Defense last week. Therefore, we do not know by what powers our Defence Forces are going to Bangui, we do not know what they can achieve there in four months, and we do not know how these 55 Defence Forces can inspire that their intervention in the Central African Republic is truly meaningful and will bring about the necessary change. That is why the Centre Party Group is not taking part in this vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U180	Thank you. I ask for the Riigikogu speech chair in Jevgeni Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U181	Ladies and gentlemen, There are certainly a number of arguments to support this draft and there are certainly many arguments against it. I raise questions about the various foreign policy objectives that have been set for this mission. The partnership with France and the strengthening of its alliances are certainly important, but I am not entirely convinced that this is the most effective way to achieve these foreign policy objectives. As far as the military aspect is concerned, I am not on this issue, I must admit, specialist, but I have the impression that, if we wanted to make a real contribution to resolving the crisis in the Central African Republic, it should be understood that one four-month and strictly defined rotation is probably not what would be a positive solution to the end of this situation. However, I am sure that in a parliamentary country such as Estonia, where defence forces do not go beyond the borders of the country without the mandate of the Riigikogu, these drafts should not be dealt with in the way that this bill has been dealt with here at first and second reading and, in fact, before that. A good colleague, Inara Luigas, has already drawn attention to the technical shortcomings of this draft. I think the real problems started earlier. In general, we have asked for consensus in Parliament on important foreign and defence policy issues. This also requires a pattern of conduct from the Government of the Republic. On 16 January, the Minister of Defence and the Commander of the Defence Forces called a public press conference where they talked about 55 Estonian soldiers and technology going to the Central African Republic and what they will do there. This took place before the Riigikogu was informed, and before the matter had been discussed by the National Defence Committee and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. In my opinion, this is not an appropriate course of action for a parliamentary state. I think that is certainly one of the most important reasons why the opposition representatives at first and second reading had so many questions that we have not yet received an answer to. I hope that in the future, when the government brings such weighty decisions before the Riigikogu, the normal practice of parliamentary democracy will be followed, and that the relevant bodies of the Riigikogu will be consulted before making major statements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U182	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. We will now examine the amendments to draft 583. However, they have not been received. So we can go to the preparation of the final vote. The commission has asked for the draft to be put to the final vote at second reading. Dear colleagues, I will put draft 583 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 43), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 14 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The draft decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic "Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State on the European Union peace-building mission in the Central African Republic" 583 has been adopted as a decision. The fifth item is addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U183	Let's move on to item six. The second reading of the Act amending the Act on Identity Documents, the State Fees Act and the State Border Act 550, initiated by the Government of the Republic, begins. I ask Rein Lang, member of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu, to present the speech of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U184	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of bill 550 is to extend the period of validity of a digital identity card in the form of mobile ID from three years to five years. The draft also provides that an Estonian citizen who lives or stays abroad should have the opportunity to apply for an Estonian citizen's passport without a fingerprint image. The purpose of the draft is also to simplify the possibilities for Estonian citizens living or staying in another country to apply for a travel document. The draft is initiated by the Government of the Republic. For the first time, the draft had been discussed by the Commission. a on 9 December 2005. The first reading in the large chamber of the Riigikogu took place on 18 December, the first reading was closed and ten working days were given to make amendments. No amendments were received from the members of the Riigikogu. The Constitutional Commission discussed the preparation of the second reading twice: i.e. a on 28 January and 10 February. On 28 January, we stated that no amendments had been received from the members of the Riigikogu, but the representative of the initiator, the Ministry of the Interior, had sent a long-term letter to the Commission proposing that the draft be thoroughly amended. Ruth Annus, as representative of the Minister of the Interior, explained why. He said that at first the aim was indeed to issue digital IDs in the form of mobile IDs with a period of validity of five years. This was based on the best knowledge of the Ministry of the Interior, as the SIM cards for mobile phones allow ID cards with a five-year period of validity. In the meantime, a study of the areas of use and life cycle of cryptographic algorithms ordered by Cybernetica from the National Information System Agency AS was completed, which deals with all the safe solutions used in our country, apart from mobile ID. This is a study that predicts which technical solutions are safe and within what time period. The Ministry of the Interior learned that the validity of existing digital IDs in mobile ID should not be extended due to security keys. There's been a strange situation. In order to record all of this in the law, a page should have been written, which would have been difficult for specialists to understand. That is why the Commission expressed the opinion that we do not have to write all the mobile ID regulation into the law, but that we could also give the delegation rule to the Government of the Republic, which could introduce these regulations at the level of the regulation. This position seemed a little novel to the representative of the Ministry of Interior, but he didn't object either. That is what happened when we gave the representative of the Minister for the Interior and the officials of the Commission the mandate to write the mandate and see what came out of this. On Monday 10 February, the Commission convened again and examined the draft amendments. The Commission found that these were very good amendments and it fully agreed with them. On 10 February, five issues were decided by consensus in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. First of all, we decided to accept the amendments initiated by the Commission, which were two. Secondly, we decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 19 February, which is today, and to propose that the second reading be stopped. Our third proposal is to send the draft when the second reading is closed to third reading and to put it to the final vote on 27 February 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U185	Minister, there are questions for you. Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U186	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! The situation has changed. The proposals made by the Ministry were sent back to them. Secondly, during the procedure, a decision was taken to delegate to the Ministry the power to draw up a subnormal act, either a regulation or some other. I have a question about the procedure. Does the draft regulation also have to include this draft regulation or does it not have to be? We do not know how this regulation takes place.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U187	Thank you. Good question. I don't think so. I'm just trying to argue why. You see, mobile ID is essentially a private contract with a telecommunications company. In order to sell a SIM card to a customer, a telecommunications company has to comply with certain requirements to make a mobile ID application. These requirements are technical in nature and extremely complex. It is a question of the level of regulation that the government requires of the mobile operator to ensure that this whole thing is safe. In any case, the legislator says that all technical solutions offered by mobile operators must be coordinated with the RIA, or the National Information System Authority. They cannot offer anything that is not coordinated with this agency. But getting there requires technical action. In my opinion, regulation must take place at the level of the Minister's regulation. I see no added value when this regulation reaches the table of members of the Riigikogu for processing. I assure you that neither I nor you would understand any of this. So it just doesn't make sense. We followed this logic in the Commission's debate. For my part, however, many technical regulations have been introduced into the law in Estonia, which constantly causes laws to be amended, the drafts of which 101 members of the Riigikogu have to deal with. It doesn't make any sense. I think we have found a very sensible solution in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The fact that such a solution is also possible surprised the government's representative to a certain extent. I hope that these powers will be asked more in future, which I think would be very practical.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U188	Mart Nutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U189	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! A few days after the meeting of our committee, where we took procedural decisions, I was approached by an expert who was surprised that this question of three years had been raised altogether. He assured me there wouldn't be any security problems in five years. I'm just as low on security issues and technical solutions as you probably are, but I'm asking for memory refresh. Was there a delegation in the draft currently under discussion that would allow the period of validity to be considered as five years, or is it limited to three years?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U190	I realized it was possible to treat him as a five-year-old. I expressed my opinion in the Commission that I do not believe that some cryptographic algorithm lasts five years, that is wishful thinking. It is very likely that problems will arise before the end of five years and it will be very practical if the state takes strong action and requires mobile operators to update their SIM cards. There is no point in entangled with this process by the fact that it requires first a change in the law, which takes a huge amount of time, and this change really has a technical character.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U191	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U192	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I want to be more specific. Did I get it right that this delegation does not restrict people's rights, that is, on the one hand, a technical issue and, on the other hand, it limits more operators so that they do not impose an additional burden on those who are going to exchange their documents?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U193	No, not really. I will repeat this line of reasoning one more time. As regards identity cards, which are ID cards, they are issued by the State. There is a question of how much the legislator delegates this whole technical process to the Government of the Republic. However, in order to receive mobile IDs, you must first contact a private company. Nobody else is gonna give up their cell phone IDs. The Estonian state does not issue it, it does not issue SIM cards, it is telecommunications companies. However, in order for a telecommunications company to be able to do so, it must bring its activities into line with the requirements of the National Information System Agency. Since this is a public-law relationship, it must be governed by law and there is no point in doing so at the level of the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U194	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U195	Thank you. Since hundreds of thousands of people are probably watching our broadcast, I will take this opportunity to say that mobile ID is, in my opinion, one of the most convenient e-services in Estonia and the universe. Do you use mobile ID, Mr. Lang?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U196	Thank you. This was not discussed in the Commission, Mr Aas. But, yes, I do use mobile ID. I'm actually using more ID, but I'm also using mobile ID. That's a really good thing. However, it should not be assumed that the state may say that all mobile ID-related solutions will have to work on this single SIM card for five years. That would be pointless, because if there are any problems, then the state must be able to intervene in the meantime. There can be no self-evident guarantee that all these solutions and cryptograms will be valid for five years.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U197	Thank you very much. No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. Four amendments to the draft 550 have been received, all of which are from the lead committee. We have examined the amendments. The position of the commission is that the second reading should be terminated. The second reading is closed and the sixth item on the agenda is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U198	Let's move on to item seven. The second reading of the Social Welfare Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and the Amendment to the Social Benefits Act for Persons with Disabilities Act 471 begins. Please present the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee Margus Tsahkna!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U199	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, On 9 September 2013, the Government of the Republic initiated the Social Welfare Act and the Social Benefits Act for Persons with Disabilities Act 471 with a first reading completed on 23 October. The deadline for submitting amendments was set at 5.15 p.m. on 6 November 2013. No amendments were tabled within this deadline. However, the Commission received proposals and comments from the Ministry of Social Affairs and AS Hoolekandeteenused. The Committee on Social Affairs discussed the preparation of the draft second reading at three meetings: 28 January, 10 February and 17 February. At the first session, the members of the Social Affairs Committee examined the proposals made by the Ministry of Social Affairs. The representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Mr Bärbel Vapper, took part in the meeting. Of the nine proposals presented in the address of the Ministry of Social Affairs, eight received support from the Social Affairs Committee. The proposal aimed at changing national supervisory practice and giving the Social Insurance Board the right to supervise without a 24-hour notice was rejected. The reason was that as the draft law amending the Law Enforcement Act repealing § 381 of the Social Welfare Act also exists in the proceedings of the Riigikogu, the members of the Social Affairs Committee did not consider it appropriate to change state supervision in the short term. It's done by another law anyway. On 10 February, the Chairman of the Management Board of AS Hoolekandeteenused Maarjo Mändmaa presented their proposals. The members of the Committee on Social Affairs supported the proposals relating to a longer period of time for the relocation of persons who are provided with accommodation, as well as proposals on the regulation of queues for special care services. I shall sum up the major changes. Sequences will be regulated by a ministerial decree from January 2015, no longer by law. This will provide an opportunity to regulate the queues more easily and flexibly. The transitional period for educational requirements will be extended. For example, Hoolekandeteenused AS has already developed a long sequence of training courses for supervisors. We made this change on the basis of real need. The costs associated with premises will be reduced in order to increase the availability of services and to enable the provision of community housing and specialised care around the clock in smaller premises. For example, it is intended to create families of up to five people. The aim is to provide the service flexibly. The Social Affairs Committee decided at its meeting on 28 January 2014 to send the draft to second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 19 February. At its meeting on 17 February, the amendments were discussed and voted on and procedural decisions were taken. We decided to propose that the second reading be stopped. When the second reading of the draft is completed, we will be proposing a third reading and a final vote on the draft on 26 February. All these decisions were consensual. I would also like to point out that, in the table of amendments, the Commission's proposal has not been included in the table for Amendment 8. The Commission proposes that this amendment be fully taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U200	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. 17 amendments have been received for draft 471. Let's start reviewing them. All amendments are from the commission: amendments 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 and 17. Thanks for your help. The amendments have been examined. The position of the commission is that the second reading should be terminated. The second reading is closed and the seventh item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U201	Let's move on to item eight. The second reading of the draft law amending the pharmaceutical law initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Please present the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee Margus Tsahkna!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U202	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Hundreds of thousands of transmitters! The draft law amending the Law on Medicinal Products 532 transposes Directive 2012/26/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 2001/83/EC as regards pharmacovigilance. The Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft law on the amendment of the pharmaceutical law initiated by the Government of the Republic before sending it to second reading at three sessions: 10 February, 11 February and 17 February. No amendments were tabled at 5.15 p.m. on 29 January 2014. Amendments to the draft were tabled by the Ministry of Social Affairs. The Association of Estonian Pharmacies sent its referral to the Commission regarding the transposition of the Safety Directive 2012/26/EU. The Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu prepared an opinion on the draft. At the meeting of the Commission on 10 February, Tanel Terase, member of the Board of the Association of Estonian Pharmacies, presented his proposals. The representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs was Dagmar Rüütel, who commented on the arguments of the Estonian Association of Pharmacies and explained the views of the initiator of the draft. As a result of this excellent cooperation, there were two amendments which have been incorporated into the draft and which I am not presenting here any further. Both amendments received the Commission's support. The Committee on Social Affairs unanimously decided to send the draft to second reading by 19 February 2014 and to propose that the second reading be terminated. When the second reading is completed, the Commission proposes to send the draft to the third reading by 26 February 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U203	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. Two amendments have been received for draft 532 and both are from the lead committee. We have examined the amendments. The position of the commission is that the second reading should be terminated. The second reading is closed and the eighth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U204	Let's move on to item nine. The first reading of the draft Act amending § 22 of the Advertising Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Please attend the Riigikogu Chair, Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U205	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Government submits a draft amendment to § 22 of the Advertising Act. Its content is that the patient will be able to take into account the cost of a service that protects his or her economic interests when choosing between healthcare providers in the future. If the advertising of health care services is currently prohibited under § 22 of the Advertising Act, the bill also allows the health care provider to disclose its price list. The publication of the price list will not be considered as advertising health care services in the future. The draft does not change the structure and logic of the Advertising Act, according to which the sectoral advertising bans provide information which is permitted to be disclosed and which is not regarded as advertising. As regards the impact of the draft, it can be said that the disclosure of prices will hopefully boost competition and create a level playing field for new entrants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U206	Thank you very much, Minister. There are no questions. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu, member of the Economic Commission, Arto Asa!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U207	Ladies and gentlemen, The main message of the draft was already passed on by the Minister. I must start by saying that this is a good example of how professional associations, the Riigikogu and the Ministry cooperate. The draft was inspired by the fact that the Estonian Health Fund and other representatives of the health sector visited the Economic Committee, who spoke about the inconsistencies in the laws and the problem of the inability to publish the prices of services. For example, when interpreting the current law, it can be said that the disclosure of prices on the website of service providers is also contrary to the law, which is actually absurd. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the draft on Tuesday 11 February 2014. Kalev Kallo, Tiina Lokk-Tramberg, Tõnis Palts and Urve Palo were absent from the meeting. Anne Laar, Head of the Internal Market Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and Doris Teiv, Chief Specialist, presented the objectives of the draft and discussed its content. The Commission's discussion showed interest in a number of areas. First of all, it was interesting to publish the same price lists on the web, which is now allegedly contrary to the meaning of the law. From now on, that's okay. It is also permitted to publish the price list on television, newspapers and other media. It was examined how professional associations regulate advertising. This is not done in Estonia, but it is done elsewhere in Europe. Elsewhere, it is common practice that advertising of health services is permitted, but there are restrictions arising from certain medical ethics, as well as restrictions on how advertising and prices can be disclosed by professional associations. Estonia is going this way now. The Commission asked how to distinguish between advertising and information and whether it was needed. For example, there are various information campaigns on vaccination. The answer was that it was permissible to notify, but the campaign should not be invited to buy the service. The role of supervision is important in this regard. Well, the limit of what's information and what's advertising is so delicate. An example was provided that the advertising of gastric reduction is prohibited, but the Ministry of Social Affairs has allowed people to be invited to take part in vaccination against infectious diseases, as it is interpreted as social advertising, which should guide the person's behaviour in the public interest. It was asked whether the list of health services and the price list included the provision of a bonus, for example when the hip prosthesis produces dentures. The question arose as to whether such advertising would be permitted in the future. The answer was that it was not permitted to complete services in this way. Services may be offered together, but in any case each service must have a separate price and be disclosed. Now I am talking about the decisions of the Commission. Firstly, it was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 19 February 2014. Secondly, it was decided to propose the termination of the first reading. Thirdly, it was decided to propose a deadline of 6 March 2014 at 5 p.m. for the submission of amendments. All the Commission's decisions were taken in a consensual manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U208	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 584 amendments at 5 p.m. on 6 March. The first reading is closed and the ninth item on the agenda is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U209	Let's move on to the tenth item on the agenda. The first reading of the draft Act on Accession to the International Energy Programme, initiated by the Government of the Republic, begins. I ask for a presentation of the Riigikogu's speech chair, Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U210	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Government shall submit for approval a draft Act on Accession to the International Energy Programme Agreement. If this agreement is ratified, Estonia will join the International Energy Agency. Countries participating in the International Energy Agency have greater responsibilities than the legislation of the European Union we know. Therefore, members of the International Energy Agency will be able to act more effectively in the context of the energy crisis. As a member of the International Energy Agency, Estonia will have the opportunity to access in-depth market analyses and data that we can use to solve long-term issues related to Estonia's energy and to shape policies. Participation in the working groups of the International Energy Agency gives Estonia a greater opportunity to contribute to the global energy policy. Given that the views of the International Energy Agency on energy policy issues are also important in shaping the European Union's energy policy, we can have more influence on the processes that form the basis of subsequent European Union legislation. As the International Energy Agency attaches importance to solid fossil fuels, including oil shale, in ensuring energy security, Estonia will have a greater opportunity to introduce developments in oil shale burning and oil shale oil production technology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U211	Thank you. There are no questions. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu to Olga Sõtnik, member of the Economic Commission!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U212	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft law was held at the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs on 27 January, Monday. Minister Juhan Parts gave an overview of this bill. Rein Vaks, expert of the Energy Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, also participated in the meeting. The members of the Commission did not have any questions about this draft. We made consensual decisions to put the draft on the agenda by 19 February and to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 5 p.m. on 27 February 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U213	Thank you. You have questions. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U214	Thank you. As I understand it, there was no debate in the Commission. But did the originator's speech also give an example of the practical benefits of joining this document? Of course, we pay this organisation a small sum of up to EUR 30000 per year. But what positive effect can this merger have?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U215	Thank you. As the Minister mentioned, our participation in this organisation gives us greater opportunity to speak in shaping a global energy policy, to receive the most recent information in this area and to play our part in shaping this policy. If we take part in working groups, which may include both officials and specialists, we will get more information and share our information with others.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U216	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U217	Got it. I mean, it wasn't like that. But did they at least tell you who the people are who are going to be driving around the world and taking part in these events? How often do these events take place, in countries and so on?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U218	Thank you for your question. This is not what we discussed in the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U219	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 576 amendments at 5 p.m. on 27 February. The first reading is closed and the tenth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U220	Let's move on to item 11. The first reading of the draft Act on ratification of Protocol No 15 on Amendment to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, initiated by the Government of the Republic, begins. Please attend the Riigikogu Chair, Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts! I tell you, dear fellows, that a letter has come from the Government of the Republic asking for a presentation of the draft 581 at first reading as a representative of the Government, by Juhan Parts, not by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Urmas Paet, as previously announced. Please, Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U221	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Government has submitted to the Riigikogu a draft ratification law amending Protocol No 15 on the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms was opened for signature by the Member States of the Council of Europe in 1950. The last amending Protocol to the Convention, Protocol 14, entered into force on 1 June 2010. The amendments which entered into force on the 14th Protocol contributed to the effectiveness of the work of the European Court of Human Rights and to a clear reduction in the balance of inadmissible complaints. However, the high number of potentially well-founded complaints pending before the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) still raises serious concerns. In order to ensure the effectiveness of the Convention system in the future, the Member States of the Council of Europe agreed, inter alia, on the principles of the Protocol amending the new Convention, in the Declaration adopted at the Court Reform Conference held in Brighton on 20 April 2012. These principles are contained in this 15th Protocol, the main objective of which is to reduce the length of legal proceedings and the handling of minor complaints before the European Court of Human Rights. The 15th Protocol introduces a reference to the principle of subsidiarity and the doctrine of discretion in the preamble to the Convention for reasons of transparency. Subsidiarity of the Human Rights Court means that infringements must be prevented at national level by measures consistent with appropriate laws, conventions and case-law. In order to remedy infringements that have already occurred, there must be available and effective national procedures in place and it must be ensured that repeated complaints do not reach the courts. The limits of national discretion have been developed in the case-law of the Human Rights Court and the exercise of discretion is supervised by the Human Rights Court. The Protocol abolishes the current age limit of 70 years for judges. The new limitation relates to the age of the application. The candidate may be up to 65 years of age and the Judge may serve for nine years. In order to speed up the handling of cases and to ensure a more uniform case-law, the right of a party to a case to object to the transfer of competence of the Chamber of 7 to the Grand Chamber of 17 shall be abolished. In practice, countries have already accepted this and it is good practice not to dispute the transfer of competence. The Court of Human Rights itself, in its own rules, has also laid down the obligation for chambers to transfer jurisdiction in certain cases where the position of the Chamber would be contrary to the current case-law. In the light of technological developments and the deadlines in national procedures, the deadline for lodging a complaint with the Human Rights Court is reduced from six months to four months. In order to guarantee the rights of complainants, a sufficient transitional period is provided for the entry into force of this provision. The reduced deadline will only apply six months after the entry into force of the Protocol. It shall not apply to complaints which are the subject of a national final decision taken before the entry into force of the new rule. The Protocol amends the criterion of admissibility of minor complaints in order to make it possible to declare inadmissible a larger number of complaints which do not cause significant damage to the complainant. So far, the Court of Human Rights has not been able to declare inadmissible minor complaints which had not been properly examined by the national court. This requirement was illogical because if the national court considers that it does not have to deal with such a minor matter, then even less so should be dealt with by the human rights court. This was a brief overview of the content of the draft. Protocol 15 was opened for signature on 24 June 2013. As of February 2014, the Protocol has been signed by 34 Member States and ratified by 5 countries: Ireland, San Marino, Montenegro, Monaco and Liechtenstein. The Ambassador of the Republic of Estonia to the Council of Europe signed the Protocol on 22 October 2013. The protocol has to be ratified as it amends the international treaty ratified by the Riigikogu, the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The law enters into force in general. The Protocol shall enter into force on the first day of the month following the expiry of three months after its entry into force by all Member States of the Council of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U222	Minister, there are no questions. Thank you. I ask for a presentation of the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Constitutional Committee Rait Maruste!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U223	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on Tuesday 28 January 2014. Members of the Commission were present, Deniss Borodich, Neeme Suur and Priit Toobal were absent. Maris Kuurberg, senior lawyer of the International Law Bureau of the Legal Department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, representative of the government at the European Court of Human Rights, was invited. Mrs Kuurberg summarised what protocol 15 means and why it is even planned. The Minister has well summed up the content of the draft today, and I do not need to repeat it. If anyone wants to read anything else about it, the bill's explanatory statement says it all beautifully. I will give a brief overview of the debate that took place in the Commission. The speaker noted that for the States Parties this change means that the Strasbourg Court will increasingly become the European Constitutional Court in the field of human rights. This is demonstrated by the request for a wider application of the subsidiarity principle, as well as the use of the de minimis (low importance) rule in the future. It is clear that this is the only way to maintain the efficiency of the court. This has been discussed in Strasbourg for years. For the Member States, this means that the States Parties need to know well the case law of the Strasbourg Court. And not only with regard to their own case law, but also with regard to other countries, because the decisions that come from Strasbourg become more and more precedental. This leads to the need for a deeper knowledge of case law and doctrine, especially in law enforcement bodies (police, prosecutor's office and court), which requires greater emphasis on training. The speaker concluded that these proposals are very good and in the right direction. The immediate concern of all Estonian people is that it is important to clarify that the deadline for submitting a complaint, which so far was six months, is reduced to four months. Thus, after a final decision has been taken in their own country, each has four months to bring a case before the Strasbourg Court. Mart Nutt asked whether the de minimis criterion did not create difficulties and a selective approach for the Member States. Yeah, there's a threat. This was also one of the reasons why, the first time that this rule was intended to be established, it did not find acceptance. However, this must be done for a reason to avoid discussing 'five euros' complaints in court. Well, that shouldn't be done by an international court. It would also be a very welcome development in order to maintain the efficiency of the court. We were also talking about what could be the deadline for the protocol to enter into force. Mrs. Maris Kuurberg offered me a couple of years. Given that there are 47 States Parties to the Council of Europe, we considered that this was an optimistic position, because it may not be easy to reach an international consensus on such a delicate issue. In conclusion, we found that these are organisational difficulties and we do not have any arguments against the proposed changes. The Commission decided unanimously, i.e. consensually, to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 19 February, today, to propose that the first reading be closed (this proposal was also consensual), to set the deadline for the submission of amendments by 6 March. At 5.15 p.m. (this was also a unanimous decision), it was unanimously decided to appoint a speaker as rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U224	Thank you. You have questions. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U225	Thank you. Mr President of the Commission. The desire to reduce the number of cases so that no non-existent problem should be dealt with is understandable. But, as far as I know, the human rights court is far from proceeding in every case. The percentage of cases to be dealt with is marginal, I have heard that this is less than 2% of the complaints lodged. Isn't that enough? Is additional measures needed to further reduce this figure?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U226	Thank you. That is a good and substantive question. The setting of the criterion is not an additional measure or measure to reject complaints. Rather, it is a legalisation of actual practice. There will also be complaints that are, say, on the level of traffic penalties or complaints that someone's garage door has been damaged. In order to have a convention-based basis for rejecting minor complaints, this criterion has been established. At the moment, it is based on so-called practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U227	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U228	Has the initiator suddenly told you how many complaints from Estonia are currently in the human rights court proceedings and what percentage of the total number of complaints received? How can this figure change after we ratify this protocol?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U229	We didn't have a separate story about it. Maris Kuurberg, however, mentioned in his presentation that the number of appeals is now This figure has gone down over the last year and the number of reversals is projected to decrease further. We did not have any other statistics on the Commission at that time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-19_U230	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No wish, no negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading of draft 581 should be terminated. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 581 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 6 March. The first reading is closed and the 11th item is also closed. Good fellows, today's session is closed. Closure of the sitting at 4.48 p.m.
