ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Prime Minister and Members of the Government. Let's start today's briefing. We're gonna do a presence check. 38 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 63 are missing. The following members of government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aaviksoo and Minister of Culture Urve Tiidus. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have five registered questions today, but nevertheless we are also giving the opportunity to ask two questions on the ground, and if there is time left, there is still time to ask.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U2	Let's get started. Please, Mr Simson, a question for Prime Minister Andrus Ansip.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U3	Thank you. Prime Minister! Today's questioners are in a bit of a difficult position because you have announced your resignation. What's more, they probably want to hear more about your opinion on the heir to the coat than the big strategic views. Nevertheless, I am asking about your party's board meeting, which took place on 21 February. I am not asking about the identity of Mr Kallas, but I am asking what the Secretary-General has communicated to the public, who said that the question of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, was discussed at the meeting because Estonian Air is threatened with bankruptcy. Estonia's airline is also a serious concern for us because the company has not made a profit since 2005 and it is very likely that the last financial year will have ended with losses. What is the situation of Estonian Air, known to you to be in the hands of Juhan Parts, and how likely is the company to fail?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U4	Thank you. Estonian Air's current situation is much more stable than it was a few years ago. But for everyone, both opposition politicians and coalition politicians, it is known that Estonian Air has received very substantial injections of money. In 2010, the State invested EUR 17,8 million in Estonian Air, and EUR 30 million in 2011. In addition, we have decided to lend EUR 37 million to Estonian Air, of which EUR 24.9 million have now been paid out. As a result, Estonian Air has already received more than EUR 70 million in financial aid, together with the share capital expansion money. That's a lot of money. Estonian Air has largely been able to implement its restructuring plan, but the financial results, as far as we all know, are not at all positive. The situation is pretty serious. At the same time, the European Commission is currently carefully considering whether the additional share capital injection by the State and the loan granted to Estonian Air are compatible with the State aid rules or not. What this consideration of the European Commission will lead to is, unfortunately, unknown to us. But as I said, the current situation is much more stable than it was three years ago.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U5	Please, Mr Simson, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U6	Thank you. Prime Minister! Estonian Air's losses amounted to EUR 17,3 million in 2011 and EUR 49,2 million in 2012 together with one-off costs. The 2012 consolidated report of the state companies approved by the Government last week shows that Estonian Air was the only state-owned company whose activities were assessed as unsatisfactory. The company is expected to make profits in the following year. Who should be responsible for the advances made by Tero Taskila that led the company to such a disadvantage?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U7	Thank you. Yeah, that's right. As Prime Minister, I, too, do not expect a profit for Estonian Air for this year and do not think that Estonian Air was profitable last year. The financial results of last year have not yet been made public, but we obviously have no reason to expect profitability, knowing the current news about Estonian Air. At the same time, it must be acknowledged that quite a number of European aviation companies, which do not exactly operate in the core of the European Union, are loss-making. In some respects, the losses incurred by the airline are even explained by objective reasons. However, I agree with the good questioner about the expansionary expansion plans of Estonian Air under the leadership of Tero Taskila. As we know, they completely failed. With today's knowledge, you could call it that, as you said, it was an advance, but it wasn't so clear about that knowledge at the time. The company was loss-making, there was a need for new solutions, a new approach to make the company profitable. Unfortunately, it has to be acknowledged that more than a billion kroons were invested, but the company has not made profit.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U8	Please, Mr Simson, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U9	Thank you. Prime Minister! The party you lead is negotiating a coalition these days. Speakers have said that it is possible to reduce taxes and raise subsidies at the same time. The only source of cover that has been put forward so far is the plan to privatise state companies. What kind of companies do you think are supposed to be sold or placed on the stock market as a source of cover for these promises? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U10	Thank you. As you know, I have not participated in consultations that could ever presumably lead to negotiations for the formation of a government. I have had the opportunity to lead consultations, coalition negotiations over nine years, and I do not consider it possible in any way to continue the formation of new governments for 10 or 11 years. That is why I have deliberately distanced myself from all the consultations that have been held so far. It is right, in my opinion, to give these people the opportunity to make their own decisions, who are prepared to take government responsibility. It is not right for a outgoing person to share guidelines for the formation of a possible government. I do not consider this opportunity, which you have claimed, to cover the running costs of the funds obtained from the privatisation of public undertakings to be possible, because the privatisation of companies in budgetary terms is a pure financial transaction and it is not possible to cover the running costs. This will have a significant impact on the budgetary balance and negative direction. I don't think that's possible. However, I am not able to confirm whether the media approach that you have now brokered has ever been the subject of a debate during any consultation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U11	Two questions registered on the spot, please. Let's start with colleague Marika Tuus-Laul.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U12	Thank you very much. Mr Prime Minister! With regard to Estonian Air, I ask about Tartu airport. People do not like one dust that the international flights have remained minimal at Tartu airport. What do you say to the people of Tartumaa, why is that, and when will the situation improve? Do you consider it normal that the people of Tartu, Tartu and its surroundings are cut off from air traffic? We have people in Tartu County on the balcony and they want to know.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U13	Thank you. No, they're not cut off from air traffic. There is generally a three-hour rule in the world of aviation: if an airport can be reached within three hours, a new large airport within this radius, an international airport will generally not be created. Such examples can and can be found in Europe. For example, in Strasbourg, an excellent airport has been built, where a great many passengers and aircraft can be served, but unfortunately, if you are going from Tallinn to Strasbourg, you will be flying to Frankfurt and Frankfurt will take you forward to Lufthansa bus, the plane to Strasbourg will not fly. Why isn't he flying? Still the same three-hour rule. The bus is more competitive than the plane. Aeronautics is largely a "volume bin', a volume business, the higher the capacity of an airport, the cheaper the service of one passenger or aircraft. I do not consider it very possible that there will be a number of competitive international airports in Estonia in the future. For feeder flights such as Tartu Airport is currently used, it will probably be used in the distant future, but for direct flights from Tartu to the major cities of Europe, I do not consider it possible in any way, given the number of Estonian people and the number of people of Tartu and South Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U14	The last issue registered on the spot. Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U15	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister! First, a brief comment. You replied to your colleague as if the media had come up with a plan to sell state companies. This proposal was made by Siim Kallas, former Prime Minister-designate of the Reform Party, which has not been invented by the media. With regard to Estonian Air, you said that the financial results are still not positive and that it is quite certain that members of the next government, including the Prime Minister, will also have to deal with these issues. Since Siim Kallas, one of the possible prime minister candidates for the Reform Party, has now fallen away, I ask: who is the next reform party to sit at the negotiating table and discuss Estonian Air's questions?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U16	Thank you. Your question has nothing to do with Estonian Air, but you will have an answer to it today. The Reform Party Board will meet today at three o'clock to answer that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U17	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U18	The next question is from my colleague, Mr Helmen Hunt, Minister for Education and Science Jaak to the Aavikkool. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U19	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister for Education and Science, In Estonia, deaf children have been given school education since 1866. There is currently one state school, Tartu Hiie Kool and Tallinn School Heleni Kool, which is a municipal school that works very well and enables these children to be educated (at Tartu Hiie School until the end of the ninth grade and at Tallinn Helen School until the end of the 12th grade). Of course, there are also some vocational schools in my country, such as the Old Victory Vocational High School, where a certain speciality has the opportunity to receive sign language services. What do you see as an opportunity for further education? On 26 February, there was news in the "Actual Camera" that Helen's school was either threatened with closure or at least not in 2014/2015. open upper secondary school in the academic year.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U20	Thank you. I saw the news, too, and it came as a completely unpleasant surprise. Regrettably, the City of Tallinn has not informed the Ministry of Education and Research on this subject. I believe that this decision is far from final. This could only be the case if there was no real need for this education in upper secondary school, but we are not faced with this situation, as we know. On the other hand, the opportunities for students with hearing disabilities to receive education in Estonia have been quite good. You have already referred to the Tallinn Helen School and the Tartu Hiie School, and there is also Narva Paju Kool. In recent years, the number of children in these institutions has decreased, and this has fallen faster than the number of children as a whole. There are two important reasons for this. Firstly, there are more and more hearing-impaired children who study in mainstream schools, using support services in mainstream schools and differences in teaching, but in addition, opportunities for implantation have developed considerably. This makes it easier for children with hearing impairments to study in mainstream schools and participate in education in general in many cases. I therefore believe that we have no reason to take any extraordinary steps to ensure education for hearing impaired children, and I hope that the situation at the Helen School in Tallinn will also find a reasonable solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U21	Please, Mr Küttt, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U22	Thank you! I think I need to put my question more clearly. It is actually a matter of principle. This work is done very well in Tallinn and it is great that the school also has an upper secondary school section. Would it not be conceivable that the upper secondary school part would also be at the so-called state school, i.e. receiving upper secondary school education would be the responsibility of the state in the same way as the Helen School in Tallinn?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U23	This can, of course, be considered in principle, as we have talked about the creation of state secondary schools, and it can certainly also be considered to create separate conditions for children with hearing disabilities in state secondary schools. This cannot be ruled out in principle, but it must be decided by negotiation, just as we have established state secondary schools in other counties or local authorities. So quite certainly this is the subject of the debate, and when it is raised, it must be discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U24	Please, Mr Küttt, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U25	Thank you. The final question concerns the possibility for deaf people to study at a university. Universities are now known to fund this study through the Archimedes Foundation and projects. But in my dealings with deaf students, I have heard of their concern that this money does not allow participation in all the lectures. Indeed, some of the lectures can be monitored visually and in other ways. Is it hoped that there will also be an increase in the amount of money involved in ensuring opportunities for university studies?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U26	Thank you. This is now a more comprehensive issue concerning the financing of universities at all. We have given up funding for universities on a cost-based basis for each particular function. This is a comprehensive funding and the university itself, within its autonomy, must be able to guarantee learning conditions for all students with special needs. It is true that there are national support programmes, including those you referred to, but this concerns not only hearing-impaired students, but also many others and not only children with special educational needs. However, the principle is quite uniform: the university receives a comprehensive sum that has not been delineated, and for this money, the teaching must be organised in such a way that all students with special educational needs can obtain education on an equal footing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U27	Now the questions registered on the spot. Starts with colleague Heljo Pikhof.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U28	Thank you. Dear Minister, Are there any mappings of deaf children, hearing impaired, etc.? Speaking specifically about Tartu and South Estonia, there is no real opportunity for deaf and hearing children to study in a special school, I mean upper secondary school. Of course, it is possible to put these children in regular school, but does there really exist a sign language interpreter in all schools, too much if there is one such child in the class? Do you think that the upper secondary school part should not be in Tartu as the centre of South Estonia, so that children in the neighbourhood can study there and should not go to Tallinn Upper Secondary School?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U29	Thank you. Children with hearing disabilities have a statistically 0.05-1.1% of all students in Estonia, and this percentage varies slightly from year to year. If they divide evenly across Estonia, it is quite understandable that they are not only in Tartu and Tallinn, but also in Pärnu and Saaremaa, for example. What is a reasonable need and where to create these conditions cannot be decided, not in general terms, but on the basis of a specific situation and addressing each case as appropriate. The total number of these students is less than 100. Therefore, I do not think it would be reasonable to create the conditions for each county centre to study for which there is no practical need. I do not know that this has so far been a problem in terms of access to education, at least not a general problem that must be resolved in the ministry, let alone the level of law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U30	Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister for Education and Science, I am sad to hear that you have not yet heard that upper secondary school education for hearing impaired and deaf children is a very serious problem. This is a serious problem precisely because it is indeed individual cases, but they are currently funded at the level of general upper secondary school education. This means that it is not possible for those who come from a distance from the school to be able to finance the place of the student home in full. Currently, it is financed on a project basis, on a municipality's benevolent basis or with the support of a parent. This situation would certainly need to be reviewed. Quite a few years ago, negotiations were opened between the ministry and the city, which has not reached anywhere. We had a meeting with the two Commissions where this issue was asked to be taken up again at national level. Are you aware of this information?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U32	Of course, I am aware of the information, and I am also aware of the various attempts of the city of Tallinn, both legal and illegal, to circumvent its obligations. There is a regrettable confrontation on this issue. So far, the city of Tallinn has lost all these litigation. I hope that in the near future, however, there will also be a constructive approach to the problems that we have been dealing with here, i.e. the problems associated with the education of low hearing upper secondary schools.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U33	Thank you very much, Minister. I'm going to finish the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U34	The next question is from my colleague Jüri Jaanson, Minister of Culture, Urve Tiidu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U35	Thank you. I am interested in the issue of sports scholarships recently held in public. Here in the Riigikogu, a joint meeting of the Committee on Finance and Culture took place at the end of February, where the parties discussed the principles of scholarship payment in general. In this regard, it turned out that the most burning problem is, of course, guaranteeing social guarantees for young trainers. At this meeting, the Ministry of Culture undertook to actively seek a solution to this problem. How far is this process now?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U36	Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you very much for this question. The process has moved on. The Ministry of Finance is currently working on a draft amendment to the Income Tax Act and part of the changes to be made also concerns the rights and obligations of non-profit organisations in the field of sport in relation to the remuneration of coaches. Since the concept of scholarship has so far been lacking in law, practical life has highlighted the need to clarify the conditions under which the scholarship is paid. The remuneration of trainers must be based on the principle that remuneration for work and such remuneration, with which young trainers are guaranteed social guarantees, including pension insurance and health insurance. There is information that this bill will reach coordination in April. But there may be another financial side. As we know from the past and as decided at the Cabinet of the Government, additional means are provided to reward young trainers, so-called compensation mechanisms, so that social guarantees are guaranteed. To this end, a financial support mechanism has been designed, given inputs to the state budget, but, of course, it will be finally confirmed in the country's budgetary strategy.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U37	Please, Mr Jüri Jaanson, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U38	I wouldn't be so specific, I'd rather ask you a little different. The question of clarifying the definition of scholarship has also arisen in connection with the same scholarship problem. Does the Ministry of Culture intend to work in this direction or has it already worked to clarify the definition of scholarship?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U39	This is dealt with in the draft amendment to the Income Tax Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U40	Please, Mr Jüri Jaanson, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U41	I am still interested in resolving the issue of scholarships paid to judges. We have a lot of sports competitions and scholarships are also used for the remuneration of these judges. Does the Ministry of Culture have any plans to deal with this in any way?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U42	I am pleased to add information to the previous response that we are moving forward step by step. With regard to the issue of judges' remuneration, the ministerial timetable is such that proposals are made to the Cabinet by October. Not all at once, and we have prioritised 5.1 to 7. Category 1 youth trainers who are directly involved in sport education and health development for our young people.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U43	Two issues registered on-the-spot. Starts with Tarmo Tamm.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U44	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. In time, there was a principle that sports schools should be abolished because it was a legacy of Soviet times. However, there are many countries in the world where sports schools operate today and are operating very successfully. There are also municipalities in Estonia where sports schools have not been lost, such as the city of Põlva, the city of Viljandi, the city of Võru. As far as I am aware, the municipality of Tartu restored the School of Sports and, as we know, Tallinn is also planning to restore the School of Sport this year. This gives coaches the opportunity to feel confident and get full social guarantees. Was losing sports schools a big mistake?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U45	Thank you very much for this question. Personally, I do not think that this was a big mistake, but I understand that your question is motivated by the issue of social guarantees for young trainers. I would stress that the changes that I mentioned in the first response to Mr Jaanson's question do not make a difference as to whether youth coaches work in sports clubs or sports schools. You rightly mentioned the cities where sports schools have survived. As a Kuressaare, I say that there is still a sports school in Kuressaare, which was the decision of the local government. The local government is known to be able to make different choices. But if you evaluate it, there are a lot of strong sports clubs and there are very good sports schools. I think that the formal part is only one half of the matter, the substantive work is actually done by the coaches. With the good support of local government, young people can have various forms of sports opportunities, guide them towards better performance and, most importantly, good health.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U46	Please, Mr Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U47	Madam Minister! You rightly said in your reply that solving this problem requires additional money and expressed your hope that it would be resolved when adopting the budget strategy. I remember that the joint committee meeting was about EUR 3.5 million. Can you specify whether this 3.5 million is intended for this year, i.e. it will be found in additional funds, or is it intended to be put into next year's budget? If the amendment to the Income Tax Act enters into force now, it will probably enter into force this year. The tax administration also continues to operate in relation to sports clubs. If the budget for next year is planned, there will be a hole in it and it will need to be resolved quickly. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U48	Thank you very much for this question. The joint meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the Committee on Culture also mentioned the compensation mechanism, and this is indeed 3.5 million, which is the result of the calculations made by our ministry and sportspeople. The country's budgetary strategy still concerns the next year. I think that during this transitional period, until the amendment to the Income Tax Act comes into force and the compensation mechanism is in place, no coach will be stopped and children will be able to continue training. It's understood that if there's one thing that wants to be fixed, it'll take some time. So I hope that everything will be all right from the beginning of next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U49	Thank you very much, Madam Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U50	Let's go to the next question. Please, my colleague, Mailis Reps, the question of the Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aavikkool!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U51	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Our conversation is a bit of a different course, but it is very important. Last Thursday, the Government of the Republic approved a fine-tuning and support fund regulation, according to which local authorities receive EUR 206 million in support of educational expenditure. Most of it, over EUR 166 million, is intended to provide wage support for municipal school teachers. As a result of the previous Question Time, we also had an exchange of letters with Mr Jürgen Ligi, who said that this whole regulation had been developed on a proposal from the Ministry of Education and Research. That's where I have the question. Why does the wage fund for upper secondary school teachers on average, looking at different figures, decrease from 4% to 38%?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U52	First of all, the growth of the entire wage fund for local governments goes mainly to eliminate the misplacedness created over the years, where smaller municipalities have sometimes been allocated less money per teacher than larger cities. Next, the regulation indeed states that basic school teachers' and upper secondary school teachers' payroll funds must be kept separate, except in situations where the local government has taken a decision to organise the school network, which allows for the gradual closure of upper secondary school, since it is not appropriate to maintain it either in terms of quality or efficiency. Thus, opportunities have also been created to fund upper secondary school teachers at a level of EUR 800 + 20% or EUR 960 per month for each full-time teacher. Gymnasiums operating effectively in Tartu and Tallinn receive significantly more than 1100 euros per teacher per month, which I think is quite good given the teachers' average salary.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U53	Please, my colleague, Mailis Reps, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U54	Thank you, Mr President. I'm sure we can continue with this rhetoric, but if you look at this three-page table, there's a huge drop in the small municipalities you mentioned. Of course, size is also relative, whether it is Karksi, Kanepi or Kallaste, taking it from under K, or West Nigula or Loksa or Lihula, it is relative, whether they are large or small, but probably they are still relatively small on the Estonian scale. If there has not yet been a decision to close upper secondary school, there will be upper secondary schools that will be open next year, and the funds will decrease by 14%, 16%, 12% and 17%, how will it actually be possible to continue to provide proper education in these upper secondary schools?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U55	In these upper secondary schools, the school manager is obliged to provide education as required by national standards. The resources for this purpose are available to the school manager, and the school managers operate according to the possibilities created by both state support and the local government's own budget. But, of course, if there are fewer than ten students in each grade, the material resources that the local government, or the school manager, must put on top, are so large that it is indeed necessary to consider the feasibility of such an upper secondary school level.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U56	Please, my colleague, Mailis Reps, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U57	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. If we go along with what you are saying, the country is basically giving a very clear direction that smaller upper secondary schools with fewer than 28 pupils per class could make these school decisions and close the upper secondary school. Consequently, the direction to develop and develop state secondary schools has also been taken. Have you foreseen sufficient resources for each state upper secondary school to have student homes and to pay student grants? This is what it takes for young people in these smaller places to really be able, as is the case with vocational schools, to go to the center despite their family background?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U58	Of course. We constantly monitor the livelihood of students studying in state secondary schools, also in the sense of how they get to school. Transport is being restructured in cooperation with rural governments. The provision of student housing is generalised over the entire secondary school level, which includes both vocational training institutions and upper secondary school. This is self-evident and, of course, we are dealing with it. There is no reason to believe that access to high-quality upper secondary school education has decreased due to the establishment of state secondary schools. Rather, all the signs in those counties where state secondary schools have been created show that access to high-quality upper secondary school education has improved significantly.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U59	Please, Mr Küttt, a matter registered on the spot!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U60	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, My question concerns higher education, but in view of the future, it is also very important. There are currently so-called billing times in higher education institutions, i.e., depending on the availability of points, due to their absence, students who have fewer points than required will be issued with invoices. Has the Ministry made any statistics and analyses of how many students have received these bills and what is this amount? How many students have taken an ex-mat? When can you expect an analysis of what this free higher education has brought?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U61	The analysis of free higher education started as soon as this system application. It is quite clear that over 4,000 more free study places came. That's a pretty big number. So regardless of how many bills are issued to compensate part of the study costs, the acquisition of higher education has become several times cheaper for Estonian households. To a large extent, there is no doubt that the reform of higher education, which has become known as free higher education, has improved the access of households to higher education. Now you two questions. As to how many bills have been written out, how many percent of students have received the bill and how much it is, the first conclusions can be drawn after about a few months. Indeed, now is, as you said, the time for issuing invoices. Once the bills are written out, you can start analyzing them. Preliminary results show that this affects a relatively small number of students. Compared to previous years, students have, if you could say so, also made more effort, paid more attention to completing the curriculum and thus the overall efficiency of universities has increased. But both this claim that efficiency has increased, and the claim that it has significantly decreased, receive quantitative content within the next few months.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U62	Please, Mr Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U63	Minister, thank you very much. At the last meeting with our group, if I remember correctly, you said that by June, the Ministry of Education will present the development plan for the school network to the Government of the Republic for approval. Am I right to understand that this deadline relates to the use of European Union funds for educational purposes where Estonia intends to spend this money? Does this development plan have to guarantee only those items that we want to finance with European money, considering them sustainable, or must it give a detailed picture of the sustainability of the entire school network?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U64	Thank you. This study, which we have commissioned as a follow-up study from Praxis, was, as we know, the first study was completed in 2005; this analysis of the school network should give a comprehensive picture of the development of the school network, and then also in time, because, as has already been said, the previous study was in 2005. On the basis of this study, it is certainly possible to draw more general conclusions, not limited to the investment plan alone. However, this deadline for Midsummer is indeed linked to the introduction of European Structural Funds money. We want to avoid a situation which, unfortunately, was not fully avoided in the previous financial period so that national investments, including those co-financed by the Structural Funds, would also be sustainable after 10, 20 and 30 years. It is certainly not possible to approach this issue by keeping only those schools that are supported by structural funds. I'm sure there's a lot more schools left. The fact that the decision to close a municipal school can still be taken by the school manager itself is not of minor importance, and there is no intention to intervene at national level. I have also not heard the proposals from the Riigikogu that the central authority or central government should decide whether or not to hold schools that fall within the competence of local government. However, the state can manage the development of the school network through investment decisions and a financing model, which we have also been determined to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U65	Thank you very much, Minister. I will also stop dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U66	The next question is from Mr Sõerd to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U67	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! This week the annual International Monetary Fund mission to Estonia ends. I know that you have met the members of this delegation, and the Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Riigikogu also met them yesterday. What are the government's conclusions from the meeting with the Monetary Fund delegation? What is the evaluation of our economy and our policies? Given the current volatility of the European economic environment, the estimates of the currency fund are extremely important.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U68	Thank you. The main conclusion is probably the same for both of us: the Estonian state must continue its conservative fiscal policy. Living a debt is in no way acceptable on the basis of our own principles and the International Monetary Fund would not accept that either. Consultations with the International Monetary Fund have always been very useful for Estonia. Such an observer's look, the observer's analysis helps to better understand the processes in Estonia and thanks to IMF recommendations we have been able to make good and right decisions within the country. The key recommendation is to continue along the same path. The IMF has raised a number of issues related to the Estonian labour market and economic growth. Obviously, we must continue to deal with these issues in depth ourselves. They have not yet presented their final views and conclusions, but consultations have asked why Estonia has relatively high unemployment. Although our unemployment rate is considerably lower than the average in the European Union, it is still very high. The question is what we can do better to reduce unemployment, because such high unemployment is not compatible with other indicators. Perhaps if one solution were to be sought, the solution should be a marked increase in the number of participants in lifelong learning.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U69	Please, Mr Sõerd, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U70	Thank you for that review. Consultations with the Monetary Fund shall normally also cover the policies, decisions envisaged or decisions already taken by the Member State. In general, attention is given to steps that either increase budget revenue or reduce budget expenditure. Did you also discuss the topical issue of child subsidies in these negotiations, whether they could be universal or need-based?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U71	Thank you. Since the subject was topical yesterday and there was also a meeting yesterday, of course we addressed it. The IMF approach is primarily related to efficiency. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) wants taxpayers' money to be used efficiently to address societal challenges. They therefore essentially prefer the payment of needs-based subsidies and not so much universal subsidies. At the same time, however, it is up to each country to decide which forms of support should be preferred. Basically, the question is how to find an optimal balance between universal support and need-based support. There is virtually no balance in Estonia. We have universal subsidies and needs-based subsidies, the share of family benefits is very small compared to other EU Member States. However, it is certainly not appropriate for the International Monetary Fund to have such a bravous approach that, if there is political will, money will probably be found. All decisions taken must be responsible. Decisions are responsible when expenditure is also covered by real funds.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U72	Now two issues registered on the spot. Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U73	Thank you. Prime Minister! As we have read today, Estonia is in an early recession phase. As we know, this year's state budget has been designed to account for growth of 3.6%. If you follow the negotiations of the new coalition next door, there will be new wishes on the table. For me, the question is whether the new coalition does not have to start running the state budget this year as a first step. What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U74	Thank you. At this point, I do not know what this new coalition is or is an old coalition. I would certainly like future governments to continue the conservative fiscal policy that has led to Estonia's success so far. It is vital for Estonia to keep public finances in good order. At what stage of the economy we have, we could discuss it. We have two neighbours with a very large fall in industrial production in January. At the same time, we have a third export partner, who is ahead of the two neighbours in terms of export volume, who had a good 3% growth in the fourth quarter of last year. So neither is the influence of the neighbourhood that is so unambiguous. It is true that, in addition to these two neighbours, Latvia and Finland, where industrial output growth has been declining, there is also a third country where growth is not the best in Russia. What these developments will be, and what their impact on Estonia will be, is difficult to predict at present. However, I look forward to the future of the Estonian economy and consider the potential of the Estonian economy to be high today. I expect that, as the International Monetary Fund predicts, this year's economic growth will be at least 2.5% and this percentage point could increase further next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U75	My colleague Helmen Küttt, please, the last issue registered on the ground.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U76	Thank you! Prime Minister! Estonia's registered unemployment has increased for five months. In addition to lifelong learning and further training and retraining, did these negotiations mention the Youth Guarantees that the Ministry of Social Affairs is currently working on and probably already partially implementing in the new year?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U77	Thank you. No, we did not discuss such detailed issues with the IMF delegation. But, of course, the International Monetary Fund also understands the seasonality of the labour market perfectly. The fact that unemployment is generally rising in the fourth and first quarters and the fall sharply in the second and third quarters has been characteristic of Estonia for the last 20 years. So, based on seasonal trends, it wouldn't be worth trying to draw conclusions here on general trends.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U78	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a few minutes left, so please use your quick fingers! Nobody wants to talk. Then I can tell you that Question Time is over. Thank you very much, colleagues, for asking questions. Thank you, Members of the Government, for answering your questions. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U79	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the session of the seventh working week of the seventh plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. Ladies and gentlemen, if you want to hand over drafts and enquiries, now is the time. There's no desire. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and has appointed leading committees for them. First of all, the Government of the Republic s. a Draft Act on the ratification of the Estonian-Russian border agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Russian Federation and the Narva-Finnish Gulf Sea Demarcation Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Russian Federation, the leading committee of which is the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Second, the Government of the Republic s. a draft law amending the Law on district heating, initiated on 10 March, of which the commission is the Committee on Economic Affairs. Third, the Government of the Republic s. a draft law amending the Law on Audit Activities and the Law on Securities Markets, initiated on 10 March, of which the commission is the Committee on Economic Affairs. Fourth, the Government of the Republic s. A draft Act on the ratification of the Final Acts of the 25th Congress of the World Postal Union, launched on 10 March 2004, of which the Governing Commission is the Committee on Economic Affairs. Fifth, the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the General Part of the Environmental Code Act, initiated on 10 March, and related amendments to other laws, of which the commission is the Committee on the Environment. Sixth, the government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Water Act, initiated on 10 March, of which the commission is the Committee on the Environment. Seventh, the Social Committee of the Riigikogu. a draft law amending the Pharmaceutical Act, the State Tax Act and the Health Services Organisation Act, initiated on 10 March, of which the commission is the Social Affairs Committee. Eighth, the Estonian Centre Party faction. a draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act and the Vocational Training Institution Act, initiated on 10 March, of which the commission is the Committee on Culture. Ninth, the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu. a Draft Act amending the Riigikogu Election Act and other laws initiated on 11 March, the commission of which is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The following changes in the membership of committees have been approved by the Riigikogu Board. Firstly, Urbo Vaarmann, a member of the Riigikogu, has left the place of member of the Committee on Culture and has taken the place of a member of the Committee on the Environment. Secondly, Eldar Efendijev, a member of the Riigikogu, has left the position of member of the Committee on the Environment and has taken the place of a member of the Committee on Culture. Please, let's do the presence check! 93 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 8.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U80	Let's start work on today's agenda. The first item on the agenda is the third reading of the Act amending the Notice and Request for Explanation initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Law amending the Law on the Home and Working Procedures of the Riigikogu. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? Please, Mr Neeme, as representative of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U81	Madam President! The draft that we are now voting on is a step towards the proposals of the Riigikogu. The right of petition had not been furnished in Estonia so far; this draft will create this mechanism. The Socialists are pleased that our proposal that the petitioner's representative should in any case be invited to give oral explanations on the Commission's proposal was taken into account in the procedure for the draft. The right to be heard in a democratic society is one of the fundamental rights. True, the bill retained the requirement of a thousand signatures of a letter of formal notice to the Riigikogu. According to our proposal, 500 supporting signatures would have been sufficient for petitioning. It is true that there was also an unpleasant additional clause in the draft, which gives the official in charge of the reception of citizens the right to decide whether or not the oral addresser's right to be heard is manifestly abused. There is still doubt as to whether such a provision would not give rise to an increase in the arbitrariness of officials. However, since it is basically an opportunity to petition and a draft inspired by the people, the Social Democrats will vote in favour of the bill. If, however, the implementation of the draft as a law reveals problems arising from these circumstances, then we consider it necessary to adjust the regulation to be put in place in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U82	Thank you very much, Mr Neeme Suur. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. We can go to the final vote. Colleagues, it seems that most members of the Riigikogu are in the Chamber. Since the adoption of this law requires a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu, please do a check-in! I'm sorry, I'm interrupting the presence check! Mr Iva, what are the problems? [[???Kaia Iva: 'Ei ole probleeme.'???]] No problem. Again, please, let's do the presence check! 92 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 9. Good Riigikogu, I will vote in the final vote on the letter of formal notice and the letter of explanation initiated by the Constitutional Committee and the draft law amending the Law on the Home and Working Procedures of the Riigikogu 518. Please vote! 92 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U83	The second reading of the draft Act amending the Employment Services and Benefits Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, begins. I ask for a presentation by the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, Margus Tsahkna.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U84	Madam Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic on 4 November M. The first reading of the draft Act amending the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act 521 was completed on 15 January. a. The draft amendment was tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Similarly, the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Chamber of Service Economy and the Confederation of Estonian Trade Unions presented opinions and suggestions on the draft to the Social Committee. The Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu prepared an opinion on the address of the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Chamber of Service Economy. The Social Affairs Committee prepared a second reading of the draft law amending the Employment Services and Benefits Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act at four sessions: 11 and 18 February and 10 and 11 March. I will be brief about the procedure. In the letter of the Chamber of Commerce, it was proposed to delete from the draft paragraphs 5 and 6 of § 1, which provide that the unemployed person should not be taken into account as the head of the company or as a person working in a non-profit association or foundation for a small fee. In their view, it is not justified that the person who is a member of the management board is not registered as unemployed. They also feel that this could have a negative impact on entrepreneurial activity. The Service Economy Chamber expressed the view that the change that a member of the company could not register as unemployed in the future, regardless of whether or not he was paid for the work, was contrary to the Constitution. Consistency with the Constitution has been thoroughly analysed by the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu and found that there is no conflict with the Constitution. The Confederation of Trade Unions does not support the proposed amendment, according to which a member of the management and control body of a non-profit organisation or foundation who receives a remuneration for the performance of his or her duties which is less than half of the current minimum remuneration shall no longer be registered as unemployed. It is proposed to delete paragraphs 5 and 6 of § 1 from the draft. According to the Ministry of Social Affairs, the drafting of the amendments set out in the draft was based on what work is and did not justify why the members of the management and control bodies of non-profit organisations and foundations should be in a privileged position compared to other employees. If a person works in a non-profit organisation for a small fee, he or she is not without a job. That was the position of the Ministry. Similarly, the unemployed person is not the person who works for another legal person on a part-time basis and receives a small fee. Workers must be treated equally. An employee of a non-profit association or foundation is also not unemployed if he receives less than half of the minimum wage. The draft provides for an exception under which a member of the management or control body of a non-profit organisation or foundation is to be registered as unemployed if he or she does not receive any remuneration for it. The derogation has been granted on the basis of the need to allow the voluntary (free of charge) activity of the non-profit organisation during the period of unemployment. There were three amendments. The first amendment had been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which was not supported by the Commission. According to this proposal, the employer should receive a salary allowance if he or she is employed by an unemployed person, aged 16 to 24 and has been unemployed for at least three consecutive months. According to the current law and the draft, the employer receives a salary allowance if he or she employs an unemployed person who is 16 to 24 years old and has been unemployed for at least six consecutive months. The Commission did not support this proposal, as I have already said. The Ministry's opinion states that, on the basis of studies, the payment of wage support to the employer will only help the employee to remain in employment if it involves improving the skills of the employee, i.e. combined with training. The Ministry of Social Affairs prepares Youth Guarantee measures under which wage support is paid on more favourable terms than the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act provides. According to the Youth Guarantee, the wage subsidy is paid to an employer who employs a young unemployed person aged 17 to 29 for at least two years, who has been unemployed for at least four months and who has no professional experience and no professional education. The salary allowance shall be paid for a maximum period of 12 months. An employer who provides training for a young worker will be reimbursed part of the training costs within two years. These are changes for young people and within the framework of the Youth Guarantee. Amendments 2 and 3 relate to technical solutions as well as to the date of entry into force of the law. The amendments are necessary here, because the procedure of this bill has been going on for quite a long time. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! On 11 March, the Committee on Social Affairs held a meeting at which we discussed this issue. As we still have substantive amendments which are accepted in principle by the Committee on Social Affairs, we are proposing today to interrupt the second reading. This decision was taken by consensus. If our plans come true, the second reading of the bill will continue here next week. The Commission decided to set a new deadline for the submission of amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 13 March. If you have any other proposals for this draft, you can submit them and the Commission will certainly discuss them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U85	Thank you very much, Mr Tsahkna. This is a question for my colleague, Mr Vaarmann.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U86	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Commission waitress, Did you also discuss the fact that if an undertaking stops its activities and should register on a work exchange, how long will the time it takes to liquidate the company, that is, the time it cannot actually register itself?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U87	Thank you. Indeed, business organisations also pointed out that it would take time to liquidate the company. But this bill deals with being a member of the board. The change in this status is not directly related to the liquidation of the company, but the question is whether a person is employed as a member of the management board or not, whether he is a member of the management board or not. According to the law, if he is a member of the board, he cannot be registered as unemployed, if he is no longer a member of the board, there is nothing to prevent him from registering as unemployed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U88	Please, Mr Vaarmann, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U89	Thank you. This raises the question of how it is possible to have a company that does not have a board member. I think that in Estonia half or more companies have a owner and a member of the board of directors, the same person. The company must not be left without a board member. In essence, there is a situation where it is still not possible to go to the stock market.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U90	I didn't get it. Did you mean the job exchange? Okay. It's still possible to find a job. In other words, the goal of entrepreneurship is to earn income. Hopefully, this person has already been paid before as a member of the board. Here's the situation. I will open for a moment this dispute that took place in the Committee on Social Affairs. The understanding of business organisations is very understandable. Businesses have one philosophy: all kinds of benefits (unemployed benefits; unemployment insurance benefits that can be received by accounting for themselves as unemployed, when unemployment insurance contributions have been paid for a certain time in the past; business benefits such as start-up support or whatever) are all measures to support entrepreneurship, so we understand. What must the state do? It must clearly distinguish between measures relating to unemployment and labour market measures and measures relating to entrepreneurship measures. People who are unemployed and who are not paid are treated as unemployed. That's what drawing this line right here means. The exception relates specifically to non-profit organisations; it concerns volunteering. This information could, of course, also go to the Committee on Economic Affairs and to those committees that are directly engaged in business. Some issues related to the development of entrepreneurship and support have so far been intertwined. Supporting the unemployed is not really a matter of business development, but these issues have gotten a little mixed up. I think my colleague, Urbo Vaarmann, asked the right question. So what happens to this person at that moment? We have received a proposal from the Reform Party Group, which is partly why we are interrupting this debate here today. It provides that, if the start-up undertaking has been able to use labour market measures, it has received start-up support, then for a period of up to three months this start-up person could still be considered unemployed until the start-up of the business. We shouldn't take his support off right now. It may be a matter of playing on the border, but I personally think that such a change could come in here. The Commission also discussed this issue yesterday.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U91	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Tsahkna. Do colleagues want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. As the rapporteur said, there are three amendments to the draft law. The first has been presented by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the lead committee has rejected this proposal. The second and third proposals have been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs, i.e. they have been fully taken into account. However, as the lead committee has asked for the second reading of draft 521 to be interrupted, I will set the deadline for submitting 521 amendments. a 13 March at 5.15 p.m. Second reading of Bill 521 has been suspended.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U92	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Penal Register Act, the Code of Criminal Procedure, the State Fees Act, the State Secrets and the Secret Foreign Information Act and the State Legal Aid Act 578. To present the speech chair, Minister of Justice Hanno Pevkuri! Oh, he's already here!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U93	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The title of the draft law is very long. The President of the Riigikogu has read it. I will not repeat it. But I can tell you that this is a good bill. The main objective of the draft law is to organise the part of the Code of Criminal Procedure concerning international cooperation in criminal proceedings. This needs to be complemented due to the problems encountered in international cooperation and the need to clarify the regulation of cooperation to those applying it. In addition, as a member of the European Union, we have an obligation to transpose legislation approved in the European Union into Estonian law. The draft takes over six framework decisions, two directives and one protocol to the Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters between the Member States of the European Union, which regulates the exchange of data treated as banking secrecy between Member States. First of all, I am talking about the Framework Decision on the application of the principle of mutual recognition to confiscation orders. Its purpose is to lay down the rules under which a Member State recognises and executes a confiscation order issued by a court having jurisdiction in criminal matters in another Member State in its territory. Secondly, we transpose into Estonian law the Framework Decision on mutual recognition of decisions taken in absentia, which aims to establish common rules on mutual recognition and enforcement of decisions taken in absentia. The previous Framework Decisions on Mutual Recognition will also be amended. The regulation on recognition of decisions by default was different in the past and needs to be harmonised. The third framework decision we are taking over is a decision on the mutual recognition of conditional sentences and alternative sanctions. That Framework Decision lays down a rule whereby one Member State recognises judgments given in another Member State and, where appropriate, probation decisions and supervises probation measures imposed on the basis of a judgment or alternative sanctions contained in such a judgment. The Framework Decision shall apply only to the recognition of judgments and, where appropriate, probation decisions and to the assumption of responsibility for the supervision of probation measures and alternative sanctions. The fourth framework decision, which we are taking over, is a decision to facilitate the exchange of information and intelligence between law enforcement authorities in the Member States of the European Union. As the name states, this Framework Decision lays down the legal bases and procedures for the exchange of information and intelligence between the competent authorities of the Member States of the European Union. It is foreseen that, to the extent provided by law, information and intelligence gathered by means of surveillance activities can be exchanged between the Member States of the European Union. A Member State may submit a request to another Member State for information or intelligence necessary for the detection, prevention or prosecution of a criminal offence. Fifthly, we take over the Framework Decision on mutual recognition of imprisonment. This decision establishes a rule under which a Member State is to recognise a judgment and execute a prison sentence in order to facilitate the social rehabilitation of the sentenced person. In order to ensure that the execution of the sentence in the executing State facilitates the social rehabilitation of the sentenced person, the competent authority of the issuing State must take into account details such as the person's relationship with the executing State, whether it considers it to be a place of family, linguistic, cultural, social and economic ties, or whether it has other links with the executing State. Article 4 (1) of the Framework Decision lays down, inter alia, the conditions under which a judgment may be transmitted to another Member State for recognition and enforcement. The sentence can be transmitted to the country of nationality of the sentenced person or to the Member State of nationality where the person is not resident but to which the person is expelled on the basis of the expulsion or return measure contained in the judgment or judicial or administrative decision relating to the judgment, or to any Member State not mentioned in the preceding paragraphs whose competent authority agrees with the transmission of the judgment and the certificate to that Member State. The Framework Decision does not give rise to an obligation to accept persons who are not nationals of a Member State but Member States have been given such an option under Article 4 (1) (c) above (the third point mentioned). This means that this provision allows for freedom of choice, that Member States are also given the opportunity to transfer the judgment for recognition and enforcement to the Member State in which the sentenced person resides and has been legally resident for a continuous period of at least five years and has his or her permanent right of residence in that Member State. One of the main objectives of the Framework Decision is to ensure the effective and successful social rehabilitation of the sentenced person during and after imprisonment. The Sixth Framework Decision, which we are taking over, is the Framework Decision on the protection of personal data processed in the framework of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. The Framework Decision shall apply only to data obtained through the exchange of data between States in the framework of cooperation in criminal proceedings. The purpose of the Framework Decision is to ensure that personal data obtained in the exchange of data between States are protected at a high level, in addition to in the host country. So much for the Framework Decisions. As I said at the beginning, we will also transpose the two directives. The first concerns the European Protection Order Directive. The aim of this directive is to ensure the protection of people's life and health throughout the territory of the European Union and, according to it, one Member State of the European Union recognises a decision taken by another Member State of the European Union on the application of a protection order in criminal proceedings. According to the Directive, one Member State undertakes to comply with a protection order issued in another Member State and to implement its own national systems for the protection of vulnerable persons. The second directive we are transposing concerns the right to information about criminal proceedings. The aim of the Directive is to establish minimum rules on the rights of suspects and accused persons in obtaining information in criminal proceedings. The Directive lays down the conditions under which a person must be informed of the suspicion or the content of the charge against him or her, as well as when and to what extent he or she has the right of access to the materials contained in the criminal file. In addition, the draft takes over the Protocol to the Convention on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters between the Member States of the European Union, which governs the exchange of data treated as banking secrecy between Member States. The purpose of this Protocol is to provide for a legal basis and conditions for the exchange of data treated as banking secrecy between Member States. According to the Protocol, each Member State is obliged to take measures and to provide for procedures allowing, in the event of a request from another Member State, information to be communicated to that Member State as to whether the natural or legal person requested has an account or control of the bank account in a bank located in its territory, and details of the bank accounts identified. The proposal is also to organise the structure of Chapter 19 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and to resolve a number of practical problems and remove bottlenecks. Among other things, the following provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure are amended as a result of shortcomings and difficulties in the practical application of the law. Firstly, the appointment of a lawyer and a substitute defender will be clarified. Secondly, the regulation on the preservation of confiscated and seized property will be clarified. Thirdly, the regulation of conciliation will be made more flexible and extended. Fourthly, the regulation specifies the state fees and charges to be charged for copies. The draft was also intended to clarify the regulation on the disclosure of personal data in the decision to be published. According to the proposal, the name of the sentenced person would have been replaced by initials, with initials not replacing the name of a person convicted of serious crimes such as murder, humanity or international security, trafficking in human beings, sexual crime, drug crime, anti-State or professional crime. Although this amendment is an important part of ensuring the fundamental rights of individuals and strengthening the protection of personal data, and the need for it has been repeatedly pointed out by the Chancellor of Justice, I propose that this amendment be removed from the bill here and now. In the near future, I will call on the representatives of the Union for newspapers, the Chancellor of Justice and other relevant parties who have made a statement today to discuss once again the protection of fundamental rights and the public interest balance. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The essence of the draft is open to you. I support the Committee on Legal Affairs' proposal to conclude the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U94	Thank you very much, Minister. This is a question for my colleague, Mrs Tuus-Laul.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U95	Thank you. Mr. Minister, you mentioned a newspaper alliance. You just didn't answer why we want to replace the names of criminals with initials. How would you answer them? You said that in the case of serious crimes, the names would be made public. But shouldn't the real names of extortionists, thieves, and killers, for example, be written down? After all, the newspapers reveal these stories, and then the people would know who did these things.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U96	Thank you for your question. I'd love to explain it to you from this remote. The current law, or § 28 of the Penal Register Act, provides that, after the person's criminal records have been deleted from the register, the name of the person shall be replaced by initials or characters in the published judgments or other decisions published by the officials on the basis of which he was entered in the register. The name of the person shall not be replaced if the person has been convicted under certain paragraphs of the Penal Code. In a broad sense, these are more serious crimes, for which I have given some examples. In today's statement, the Newspaper Association tells us that a person must have the right to know who his business partner or tenant is. I fully agree with that, of course it is. This right and opportunity exist under both the current law and the amendment. As I said, I am ready to discuss this matter further. That is why I propose that the Committee on Legal Affairs should at present delete this part of the draft law. But we definitely need to find a balance point. The Chancellor of Justice has repeatedly addressed the Ministry of Justice on this issue and has also emphasised to the public that the protection of personal data must be guaranteed. If we see whether a person has the right to inquire about judicial decisions, the answer is yes. In the future, no matter what the regulation is, the criminal record will remain public. Everyone can make inquiries in the Penal Register, in this respect the statement of the newspaper union is inaccurate. Surely anyone who wishes to receive information on whether or not his or her neighbour has been convicted of criminal offences can make such an inquiry. The decisions of the Court remain public, although the Union of Papers stated otherwise in its statement. However, it is also necessary to guarantee the fundamental rights of individuals. If the person has been convicted and has served his sentence, he or she shall have the right to assume that his or her criminal records have been erased. Googled should not see a court settlement when, for example, a person has been caught stealing a jar of jam 13 years ago. A reasonable balance must be found. There is one option proposed in the draft, but I am ready to discuss it further. Above all, I look forward to the opinion of the Chancellor of Justice. Together with the Federation of Newspapers, we need to find such a balance that personal data and fundamental rights of individuals are protected, while the freedom of the press is also guaranteed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U97	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U98	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. The draft law organises cooperation in international criminal proceedings. Have these things moved forward in the Member States, or are we the first again?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U99	Thank you. I'm sure we're not the first. I mentioned several framework decisions and two directives. Several Member States have transposed them. International criminal cooperation can only be successful if information is exchanged between Member States. We are looking at the international crimes committed and police cooperation or judicial cooperation in the area of the prosecutor's office. These framework decisions are necessary in order to do so more effectively. If, for example, a stolen car moves through several Member States, there is a need to exchange intelligence. In particular, the need for international cooperation is increasingly apparent in the case of economic crimes and cybercrime. International cooperation will in any case be strengthened in a situation where there is free movement of services and persons within the European Union. One example of this is the European Commission's initiative to set up a European Public Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U100	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Kalle Laaneti, vice-chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, for the presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U101	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed this draft twice before the first reading. We did this for the first time on Monday, 27 January 2014. Mr Hanno Pevkur, Minister for Justice, Madis Timpson, Imbi Markus, Adviser to the International Office for Judicial Cooperation, and Mr Markko Künnapu, Adviser to the Office for Penal Law and Procedure took part in the meeting of the Commission. It was considered that this draft should be placed on the plenary agenda today. It was a consensual decision. It was proposed that the first reading be closed (this decision was also made unanimously) and that Mr Laane be appointed rapporteur. On the second occasion, the draft was discussed in more substance. This was on Tuesday, March 11th. Künnapu and Imbi Markus from the Ministry of Justice and Kätlin Joala, adviser to the Central Party of the Riigikogu, also members of the Legal Affairs Committee, took part in this meeting. Since the Minister has already given a fairly comprehensive overview of the objectives of the draft law, I will reflect a little bit of the moods that were in the Commission on 11 March and the questions that were asked. Mr Künnapu solemnly reported to us that 10% of this bill concerns national law and 90% concerns international criminal cooperation. The subjects of domestic law were discussed by the suspect or accused person and his representative in the case file. The aim is to create greater rights for them. New aspects of the rights of the defence were also addressed. The most important question on the table was precisely that of § 4081 concerning the replacement of names by initials in the caselaw which entered into force. It was a great happiness and a pleasure to hear that the Minister has come to the conclusion that it should be removed from the draft at the moment, and that it should be fixed in such a way as to satisfy all the parties involved. Perhaps it would really be wise to find an IT solution so that there is no need to process judicial decisions manually. It was also discussed in the Committee on Legal Affairs that day that if a request of EUR 4 is currently paid in the criminal record, it could perhaps be free of charge. These are all topics for discussion. Above all, we look forward to which solution the Ministry of Justice offers. What was decided? Some of the decisions were taken earlier, but on Tuesday 11 March, it was decided to propose that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 5 p.m. on 26 March. That decision was also unanimous. Basically, that's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U102	Thank you very much, Mr Kalle Laane. The question is Mr Lembit Kaljuveel.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U103	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good waitress! You said the request costed four euros. On what basis is this EUR 4 earmarked for this remuneration? We have procedures in place that state services must be cost-oriented. You're the one who was talking about not taking any money. In principle, this service should still be cost-based.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U104	Thank you for your question. This was also under discussion as to how much this state fee will bring to the Treasury four euros. Mr Künnapu did not know the exact number, but he thought it was a few thousand euros. This will certainly not have a major impact on the state budget. We'll have to think about it and see how it can be legally resolved if you go down that road.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U105	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Kalle Laane. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? Yeah, looks like it. Mr Marika Tuus-Laul as representative of the Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U106	Ladies and gentlemen, We have become almost the rule that whenever we transpose a European Union directive or framework decision, we also hide in that draft a hidden problem of an Estonian state that cannot be resolved. In the shadow of transposition of a directive or a framework decision, the law is amended and a cluster bill is again being taken. So is this time. Together with the fact that we are taking over the block of international cooperation in the area of criminal law, we will tackle domestic problems that the government has failed to deal with. The draft thus aims to make it possible for the name of the accused to be replaced by initials or characters before publication of the decision, except in the case of particularly serious crimes (e.g. against the state, trafficking in human beings, drug crime and murder). At the same time, the names of killers, extortionists, thieves, and many other criminals are denied access to secrecy. This way, even a suspicious service provider or a tenant can no longer easily check the background. In order to do so, you have to ask for a fee in the criminal record, one of which costs four euros. We understand very well the resentment of the newspaper union and their appeal to Minister of Justice Hanno Pevkur today, where it is said, among other things, that this amendment will change the tradition of publicising judicial decisions in Estonia and that the Estonian state will become more opaque and closed. The Centre Party Group does not consider it right that it is becoming more difficult to publicise the content of crimes in the media, which has the effect of ignoring important processes in the community. Moreover, this is being done once again in the context of the transposition of EU legislation. The second question, of course, concerns the period in which initials are actually needed. The principle of 'the right to be forgotten' will apply when the judgment has expired, not before it, but we do not want to take it into account. In the information technology age, the Estonian state cannot ensure that names are replaced by initials in outdated judgments in search engines and other servers, which the law still provides for. The pretext is that substitution is very labour-intensive, as was said in the Commission. We do not think it is right that this is why they want to amend the law by making Estonia's life more opaque. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U107	Thank you very much, my colleague Marika Tuus-Laul. I would like to ask my colleague, Mr Anvelt, to speak as a representative of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U108	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister of Justice! I could not fail to speak because I am also prepared for this small speech. But I received a pleasant surprise listening to the Minister of Justice's speech, because he took out of the draft, let's say, the disputed point. I would like to say that, more generally, all the other points of this bill are very important to us. This is not only because Europe demands them, but also because they help to protect the Estonian people if they are caught between the gears of international criminal proceedings. It's happened from time to time. It is worth recalling the anniversaries of the "Spectator" broadcast back in the air. From there we saw that only after a long path of suffering was the citizen proved that the circumstances were not quite the same as those recorded in the primary international arrest warrant. So, to sum up, it can be said that the other points of the draft law are aimed not only at helping our law enforcement authorities, but also at protecting our citizens from being caught by gears in complex international criminal proceedings. However, this point, which was brought to the attention of journalists, really created a great deal of disaffection in me too. Who has determined which criminals are we essentially defending and which are not? Yes, war crimes, murders, trafficking in human beings, certainly also corruption, crimes targeted at law enforcement, money laundering, these are really serious crimes. But most of our daily lives are exposed to crimes against property and the simplest violent crimes. We can see from statistics that the number of cases of domestic violence is increasing. The names of these perpetrators would also have been hidden behind the initials, but these actions need more publicity to show what is happening in Estonian society and to fight this practice without penal policy. The media, as we know, often educates society, explains what is good and what is bad. This is particularly true of domestic violence. So I welcome the proposal of the Minister of Justice. We had no intention of interfering with the procedure of this draft today and of supplementing it with amendments before the second reading. But now I hope that this issue will be resolved across political parties, and we will all find a good solution together so that the perpetrator can remember until his sentence is extinguished that he is a criminal. There is nothing to do, if he had the courage to commit this act, then he must also have the courage to wait for the time prescribed by law. People should know the dangers around us that can be in everyday life and who is the threat. It was also discussed in the Committee on Legal Affairs that we are talking about the problem of information technology in our e-governance. We currently have a criminal record and a judicial record in different places, even though these records are related to one ministry. After all, it is simply a question of money and the possibilities of combining these two registers. If a person's name disappears from the criminal record, it should also disappear from the judicial register or be exchanged for initials there. In an e-state, anything is possible, as long as there's will. It can't be that if we take this out of the way, the country will collapse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U109	Thank you, Mr Anvelt. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 578 amendments. a 26 March at 5 p.m. First reading of Bill 578 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U110	The last item is the first reading of draft Act 589 on the ratification of the Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters initiated by the Government of the Republic. For a presentation, please, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi of the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U111	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The text of the Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters has been developed in cooperation between the Council of Europe and the OECD and opened for signature by the Council of Europe and the OECD Member States on 25 January 1988. Estonia signed the Convention as amended by the 2010 Protocol on 29 May 2013 in Paris. The objective of the Convention is to promote international cooperation in the exchange of tax information and the recovery of tax claims. The Convention provides for forms of administrative cooperation whereby countries can better impose and collect taxes and combat tax evasion. Estonia also exchange tax information on the basis of double taxation treaties and European Union directives. The Convention provides an additional legal basis for administrative cooperation with countries with which Estonia has not concluded a tax treaty or which are not Member States of the European Union. In Estonia, the Estonian Tax and Customs Board will exchange information and provide administrative assistance. The Convention provides for the following types of administrative assistance: First, communication. Tax authorities shall exchange information automatically or spontaneously on request. The Convention also allows simultaneous tax checks to be carried out and, with the agreement of another State, to be present at the tax checks there. Secondly, aid for the recovery of tax claims. By doing so, the State undertakes to recover tax claims on behalf of another State as if they were its own claims. Third, service of documents. In the case of Estonia, the Convention applies to seven national taxes and compulsory funded pension payments and unemployment insurance contributions. The Convention shall not apply to customs duties. Estonia wishes to limit the scope of the Convention and intends to make a reservation. In fact, Estonia does not apply the Convention to taxes imposed by local authorities in order to reduce the administrative burden on the tax authorities. These taxes do not have a major fiscal impact. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U112	Thank you very much, Minister. There are no questions. Mr Vassilyev, vice-chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, for the presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U113	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for the extraordinary opportunity to examine this exciting subject in greater depth and to share everything we discussed in the committee with all of you in this Chamber. The Minister of Finance gave a very thorough, one might even say, an exhaustive overview of the draft law on ratification of this Convention. The bill itself is quite thick, but the finance minister's review summed it up very nicely. For the sake of saving time, I will not dwell on it. I shall immediately go to what were the interesting issues discussed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs at its meeting. The main concern was the reservation. In particular, Estonia excludes local taxes from the scope of the Convention. The reason was that we have a very limited amount of local taxes and their share in both municipal budgets and the public revenue base is rather small. That is why we are excluding these taxes from the scope of this information, i.e. this information will not be exchanged through mutual administrative assistance. As a result, the question arose: if we do this, do we not take away any rights from ourselves and whether it makes sense to give up rights? It has been realised that there may be no reason for us to provide administrative assistance with regard to local taxes. Full answers were received to the questions. The following consensual decisions were taken by the Commission: we proposed that the draft be placed on the agenda by 12 March, that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 17 March. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-12_U114	Thank you very much, Mr Vasiliev. No questions for you either. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 589 amendments. 17 March at 5.15 p.m. The first reading of Bill 589 is complete. Ladies and gentlemen, we have exhausted the agenda. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 2.55 p.m.
