ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U1	Dear fellow Members, Honourable Riigikogu! Honourable Prime Minister and other members of the government! Happy Question Time Watchers! First of all, it is a great honour to congratulate everyone on the 130th anniversary of the Estonian flag. In this case, the flag is also solemnly held in this Chamber. Let's start today, June 4th Question Time. First, we'll do a presence check. 31 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 70 are missing. The following members of the government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, Minister of Education and Science Jevgeni Ossinovski and Minister Anne Sulling. We have received six questions, so please let us agree that everyone has the right to ask two questions on the spot.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U2	The first questioner is Sven Sester, a member of the Riigikogu, and his question is answered by Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. The subject is the European Commission's recommendations. Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U3	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! A few days ago, written recommendations from the European Commission related to different fields were received to the Estonian state. These were recommendations on the effectiveness of public finances, employment, education, the energy economy and the work of local authorities. My question, however, is mainly linked to a subject that has been topical in recent weeks and throughout the last month, and that is the subject of budgetary visions. Indeed, the European Commission is concerned that we have started to relax our goals. We have set a budgetary surplus target in the past, but now we are talking about the balance of the budgetary position in a structural context. Moreover, we are going to the reserves, on which the Commission is also making its comments. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U4	First of all, the European Commission's country-specific recommendations are things that each country deserves to take very seriously. These suggestions have helped Estonia in the past, and they will probably be able to do so this time too. These are recommendations made in the interests of the countries themselves, and they must be taken as such. In the recommendations made this time, I see very strong support from the Commission for both the conservative fiscal policy pursued by the government and the major reforms planned by the government. We certainly have reason to take these advice seriously and to read carefully what the Commission said exactly. This recommendation, which concerns the budgetary position, mainly takes into account the Commission's assessment of the budget this year and has changed because the Commission's spring forecast, as Estonia's own new economic forecasts foresee, is that this year's economic growth will not be as high as it was expected a year ago. This year's budget has been made at the end of last year, with the active participation of a good questioner, but its position may now prove worse than we expected in the preparation of the budget. Whether this is going to happen is, in my opinion, very early to say. Fortunately, the tax receipts that became known to the people of Estonia on the same day as the Commission's recommendations show more positive trends. So let's keep a close eye on what's going to happen and draw our own conclusions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U5	The first question to be specified, Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U6	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! As the discussion yesterday pointed out: a true story must not be drawn conclusions in the context of a single quarter. But even now, analysts and other experts who monitor the state of affairs have given basically the same signals that have come from the European Commission. The European Commission will not base its proposals on 2014 alone. He states that we are moving away from our own goals, which we have set ourselves, and that we are undermining our position, and I quote the documents that have been sent to us. The Commission also refers to the positions in 2016 and 2017 in the sense that we are getting close to the so-called balance. But in the past, we have been based on the fact that we are not talking about structural balance, but about structural surpluses. That's my question. In view of this wealth of information from Europe, as well as local experts, have you planned any consultations and possible future-looking decisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U7	Since this recommendation is not long enough to be read here, I am happy to read it. Then everyone in the hall will be familiar with the matter. The Commission recommends that Estonia strengthen its budgetary measures for 2014, taking into account the gap of 0.3% of GDP in the Commission's 2014 spring forecast, which is the gap, we can talk more about this later, which points to the risk of significant deviation from the requirements of the Stability and Growth Pact; strengthen a significant budgetary strategy to ensure that the medium-term budgetary objective is met in 2015 and is followed up; complement the fiscal balance rules with more binding multi-annual expenditure targets within the medium-term budgetary framework and continue to improve public spending. With this last recommendation to continue to improve public spending, it can even be agreed to 100%. I think that this has been the goal of every government so far and will certainly continue to be. What can be read out of this recommendation? There are two things you can read. On the one hand, it can be read that Estonia has taken on one of the most conservative tasks in Europe to keep the budget balanced, not only do we know that it has been agreed in the European Union that up to 3% can go down, but we have a much more ambitious goal. We're not talking about any minus, we're not talking about balance, we're aiming for surplus. The Commission says that since the economy is expected to do worse in 2014 than they thought a year ago, the surplus, or the target we set ourselves, will also be at risk in the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U8	Sven Sester, the second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U9	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! Quite right, we both understand in the same way what the Commission has suggested to us and on which we have made comments. My question to you is whether we are setting our goals for a new level. Are we going to review our vision for the future? Are we relaxing and setting lower goals by law than we have been following so far? I mean last year, for example. Are we going to make any changes in the near future and in the next few years, based on some new budget priorities?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U10	When it comes to the 2014 budget and whether we should make major changes in this year's budget, when we look at the combined growth figures and real tax receipts, we can say that we are now moving at an early pace. Our tax receipts are 55 million, or 0.3% more than the GDP expected, rather than smaller, as the Commission suggests. Therefore, it cannot yet be said that we should make any budgetary changes this year, there is no reason. It is also likely that the Commission will soon receive very recent data on tax receipts, and then it will be possible to take them into account in its analysis. If this is about the years to come, I can assure you that we have taken action since the Commission's assessment. The forecast of the Ministry of Finance provided that as the economic environment has deteriorated since a year ago, the Estonian state budget, or government sector, would be exactly in structural balance next year. We have agreed in the government that structural balance is not ambitious enough, and we are aiming for a surplus. We have already taken decisions that will lead to structural surpluses in next year's budget. Soon, in the middle of the hot summer, we'll start making a budget. We will present it to Parliament in September, as foreseen. Whether we are taking further steps to improve our position is indicated by time. Of course, we must take into account the most recent forecasts, from which we make these decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U11	Now two specific questions registered today. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U12	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister! The European Commission's recommendations are indeed based, inter alia, on the Commission's own spring forecast, which in turn can rely on data for the first quarter. Good tax receipts have continued in April and maybe in May, if you base your data on them. So the budgetary position could be better than in the European Commission's spring forecast. Instead, I would like to ask the Commission about its recommendations in the area of the labour market. The Commission will monitor the labour market particularly closely for all Member States, as there are problems with the labour market and employment. Does the European Commission offer Estonia any change in direction on the labour market compared to previous recommendations? What does the Commission think about the reforms we are planning, such as the reform of the capacity to work?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U13	The Commission recommends strengthening their incentives to work through measures targeting low-paid workers. Efforts to activate people should also be concentrated on those who are most distant from the labour market, in particular by ensuring timely adoption and implementation of the labour capacity reform. Several aspects concern family policy and childcare, but I would just like to stress that the Commission considers that a reform of working capacity is very necessary. This will help people who are currently forced away from the labour market, but who would very much like to work. I am very grateful to the European Commission for this recommendation. This is one of the recommendations that will help us to implement our planned reforms and show that we are also on the right track internationally. It is also directly in line with the Commission's recommendations on government plans for mobilising structural funds for job creation. We have planned to devote the most resources to the so-called risk groups, including to combating youth unemployment, and also to helping the low-skilled unemployed to work. So it can be said that this is one positive support for the plans we have set ourselves. This, of course, is very welcome.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U14	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U15	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I ask the European Commission's recommendations on the part of the balance between local government revenue and expenditure. As you are well aware, in 2009 the income base of the local government was significantly weakened: the income tax on them was reduced from 11.93 to 11.4; road money and the compensation fund were cut. Prime Minister, what steps have you planned to take to ensure that the local government's expenses are covered by revenue?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U16	I have said this before, but I am happy to repeat that we are planning to channel a very large part of the European Union's budget for the next period in order to bring the services provided by local authorities to a new level. I am thinking of education services, including for students with special needs, as well as social services, in principle all the most important services that municipalities offer to their citizens. This specific recommendation, or the whole issue, I was able to discuss with the President of the European Commission, José Manuel Barroso, at length, and he very much supported the idea that we would take the maximum of European money in a good way. We really do not aim for us to simply make use of the money, but for us to help local governments to improve their cooperation and the quality of their services to a new level as a positive motivator. Perhaps some of you were watching our joint press conference last week in Brussels with José Manuel Barroso. There he has already made quite a few hints about these recommendations, but he also said that the Commission believes that a voluntary administrative reform should take place in Estonia. This would motivate municipalities to cooperate. The main emphasis was precisely on cooperation and a positive accession, certainly not on coercion.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U17	Dear Marianne Mikko and Andrus Ansip, I am quite sure that the Head of the Riigikogu signaled that two specific questions can be asked from the hall. So I'm sorry, but I'm going to stop dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U18	Next is Kadri Samson's question to Minister of Education and Science Jevgeni Ossinovski. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U19	Thank you. Dear Minister of Education, The Viira School in Tori municipality has for the last nine years dealt with children who have been unable to cope with learning or behavioral difficulties in their former home school. This was initially possible thanks to state support for student homes. In the case of a new model of funding for schools, the municipality will no longer be able to maintain this school, and at the end of March it was decided to close the school and the student home at the end of August. To what extent do you consider that such schools dealing with troubled children and their survival should be helped with state support, or should they simply be shut down by setting up a school network?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U20	Honourable questioner! Certainly, money is not the most important thing in the organization of the school network. The most important thing is that all students receive a high-quality education that meets their needs. Of course, the issue of education for children with special educational needs, including those with behavioural difficulties, is extremely important, and in this context, of course, a fundamental national approach is also needed. However, in such cases, where the problem is not physical or mental disability, but is a complex social background and ill-behaviour students, we have seen as the first preference that they go to school as close to home as possible. But there must be a support mechanism in this school. However, in certain cases it is understandable and also reasonable that these children are accommodated in student homes during the study process. For Viira School, the Ministry of Education and Research has allocated EUR 46000 per student per year under the Student Homes Programme. There are 23 students in total. In principle, the decision to close this school was primarily due to the fact that there have been very few students. Five of them will finish this year, seven next year and there will be other schools in the region where there is a student home, including the Vändra Gymnasium, which is very close.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U21	Kadri Simson, the first question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U22	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. As you rightly mentioned, only a few of the children of the municipality studied at Viira School and the municipality maintained the school where the children of other municipalities of Pärnu had come to study. And these were children who, because of certain problems, some also because their parents cared for them badly or were from criminal backgrounds, needed a safe school. You said that these children could go to school somewhere else with similar situations or, preferably, back to their home where the problems have arisen. What is the ministry's attitude towards the school home project, the student home project and what funding perspective can you allow for the next and the next school year?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U23	As you noted, most of the students in this school were from outside Tori's parish. According to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, each municipality is obliged to provide comprehensive education for the children of its municipality or city. Unfortunately, at the moment, I cannot give you an overview of how local authorities have resolved this issue with regard to these specific children, where they have been offered a place at school. But in answer to the wider question of how to treat student homes, as I said, learning away from the family, away from home, especially in the case of children in primary school, should still be the last option. It should only be used if it is not possible to resolve the matter in a different way if there are problems in the family or at home school. Above all, however, schools, parents, community or city social workers should jointly seek a solution in this same home. If this is not possible, then, as I said, there are several schools across Estonia where there is a student home. Tõstamaa Upper Secondary School and Kilingi-Nõmme Upper Secondary School are also mentioned in Pärnumaa. But I'm sure those kids who need a chance to live in a student home should get that chance. However, practice has shown that its real need is less than what is expected in society and that the Ministry has predicted. In fact, children prefer to stay in their own home when they have the opportunities they need, and that should be our top priority. And only if it is not possible to solve the problem of one child or another in this way should it be done by means of a student home.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U24	The second point to be specified, Kadri Simson.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U25	Minister, thank you very much. You just said that the need is less than it's seen so far. At the same time, statistics are published once a year on hundreds of children lost to the school system without even receiving basic education. I'm sure hundreds of kids a year are gonna be a huge loss. But for their 21 Viira School staff, the situation is quite comforting. The work they have done at school for nearly ten years does not seem to matter to anyone any more, and they are also concerned about the future prospects of work, as there is enough professional work for a few of them. At the same time, children who need special treatment for graduating from primary school have still not decreased in Estonia. What is your message to school teachers and educators who have done this necessary work in the 24/7 regime and now feel that both the municipality and the state have rejected them as unnecessary?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U26	Thank you. First of all, your first remark. I have to agree with that 100%. A hundred children who do not receive elementary education are also certainly a major problem. In fact, there are nearly 10% of young people in Estonia who interrupt their school course either as a primary education or even without it. This is one of the concerns that the government will certainly address and aims to make the learning process more inclusive so that all students receive the necessary education. On the other hand, as you know, in the new government, the Ministry of Education analyses the need to raise the age limit for compulsory education, so that all students still acquire the necessary education on the labour market. I repeat, boarding homes are certainly necessary in certain cases, but I referred to the fact that many may be accustomed to thinking that going to a student home is the first choice. Actually, it's not. For example, in Pärnumaa, only 1.86% of students are in student homes, with an average of 1.69% in the country. If in some places we have considered the need for a student home at a vocational school or state secondary school, we have thought that there are more people who want it than there are. Students generally want to live at home. Of course, there are exceptional cases where living at home is problematic for certain reasons. We should not close our eyes to this fact and think that when these children are placed in a boarding house, the problem they have at home can be forgotten. They still go home on weekends. In cooperation with the social workers of the municipality or city, you should try to do something about it. As far as the staff at the Viira School are concerned, they have certainly done a very grateful job. I hope that as good specialists, they will find a professional application either in a nearby municipality or in Pärnu city or somewhere else. This decision, I must stress, has been adopted by the municipality of Tori, it is not a decision of the state. The state has paid support to this school as it sees fit. But if it is considered that it is unreasonable to have this school, I hope that the problem of the work of these specialists will be solved. Of course, it is a very grateful job, which very many people across Estonia do. I hope that the specialists at the Viira School will continue to find a professional application.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U27	I ask the ministers to fit their answers in two minutes! Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! Viira School is an example of how we treat students with special needs and learning difficulties in Estonia. That's my opinion. I have the impression that in recent years, following what is happening in schools in Lääne and Ida-Virumaa, we are trying to draw up resources for children with learning difficulties and special needs all the time and do not want to pay much attention to these problems. Do I have the right opinion and, if so, do we continue this way or do we need to turn around in this regard?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U29	That's not true. But the system of support for education for children with special educational needs is constantly being changed. In general, the volume of this funding has increased. If you have any questions about a particular school or municipality, please submit them to me in writing, we can check the amounts. However, I do not believe that there has been a reduction in public support for education for HEV children with special educational needs. However, the concept has gone beyond the principle of inclusive education. To this end, the law passed by the Riigikogu obliges the Riigikogu to do so. The principle is less to isolate children with special educational needs in special classes and schools and to try to involve them more in normal classes. This is, of course, provided that the necessary support structures are established so that these students can cope. There have really been problems and quite a lot of tensions, we are trying to solve them in cooperation with local authorities. As you know, the start-up of the County Pathfinder Centres will provide professional training support for children with special educational needs. In addition, the government has agreed that we will provide funding for support specialists from public education support. As regards the more difficult special needs, or children of HEV2, the direction has been taken to ensure that the state takes greater responsibility and, with the funding of the new European Union budget period, the network of schools specifically designed for them is updated across the country so that everyone can get an education.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U30	Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Do I see you smiling at all her problems at Tapa Special School? Are the students still on the run, and how do we connect the two schools and build a new house?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U32	This is a longer process in which we are trying to change the approach to all special schools a little bit. It's caused tension. Some of these tensions have been in vain, but I admit that we could have arranged everything in such a way that the parties concerned could have understood the process better and probably then things would have gone better. As we know, the construction of a new study complex for the Special School of Tapa is in full swing. It should be ready by 1 January next year. Let's hope this happens. At the same time, the combination of schools is not just a legal one, but basically a single whole. We hope to differentiate between places of study for those students who need a slightly stricter regime, and those whose special educational needs are smaller in this respect. The aim is to make better use of the specialists currently scattered in several schools and ultimately to provide the education needed for these students. I have always stressed that the Ministry of Education is not a prison service. Our aim must be to provide sufficient support for children studying in these schools, so that they can do well in society later on. I admit that there have been serious problems both at Tapa Special School and elsewhere, but we are working in this direction so that they can be resolved and we can reach a new level in terms of quality in special schools.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U33	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U34	Now a question for Prime Minister Taavi Clothes. Tõnis Palts, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U35	Prime Minister! I do not want you to start explaining this at length to save time on how good the structural balance is. Nor do I want to hear about your heroic achievements in improving tax receipts in the short term. But can you tell me this? The nominal fiscal position was balanced in the country's fiscal strategy for the years 2014 to 2017. The new budget strategy, drawn up and presented under your leadership, has a nominal budget position of 0.7%. Do you think the budgetary position has deteriorated? No, you don't?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U36	Thank you for your question. This year's economic analyses have shown that economic growth can be more modest in 2014 and 2015 than previously projected. This is particularly the case for the current year. If economic growth is lower this year, it will probably lead to lower tax receipts, regardless of whether the government makes changes or not. This could also lead to a weaker fiscal position in both this and the coming years. We looked at the 2014 forecast made by the Ministry of Finance. It was not a government plan, but a commentary on the state of the economy that if we do nothing, we will not have a surplus next year. That forecast confirmed that if we don't make any changes, we're going to make it to zero structurally. The current government has already taken steps to improve the budgetary position compared to this forecast. So far, we have done this by 0.2% of GDP. Time will tell. I do not rule out that we still have certain decisions to make in the autumn. But certainly before we do, we will monitor very closely what the 2014 tax receipts have been. They have spoken a slightly different language than the economic forecast and this has to be taken into account. You can't just make decisions on the basis of an estimate, you have to take reality into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U37	Tõnis Palts, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U38	Prime Minister! I specifically asked for an accounting answer as to whether the fiscal position was worse or better than comparing two documents. You have now answered as one speaker in the City Council of Tallinn. And if you keep going like that, you'll end up like this guy as a stupid king. But here's the question that I'm going to specify. Are you saying that the new national budget strategy is more negative because the receipts are lower than those recorded in the previous budget strategy?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U39	I hope you understood exactly what you wanted to ask. However, I have already said in the first reply and I will try to explain patiently that, as a result of the economic situation in 2014, there is a real possibility that tax receipts will be lower than expected. That is why the budgetary position will also deteriorate, unless we take decisions that either improve tax receipts or reduce costs. The real situation is this: we can look at the current tax receipts, that the tax receipts for the first five months are 0.3% better than GDP than we predicted and planned when making the budget. So the balance of the budget is already better. Now, you tell me if this is good news or bad news. On the one hand, the forecast shows that things are bad this year, and the GDP indicator confirms this to some extent. At the same time, the tax receipts on which the revenue side of the budget is most dependent show the opposite trend, they do not show that the fiscal position is in fact worse. On the contrary, the first five months were better. If we look at the next few years, it will all depend exactly on what growth is expected to be, but to a very significant extent, of course, also on how taxes will actually be collected. Even if economic growth remains more modest than expected, it is possible that tax receipts will actually improve as a result, for example, of combating tax fraud.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U40	The second point, Tõnis Palts, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U41	Prime Minister! I'm asking questions here. You told me to answer now. But you still didn't answer my question. I asked you about the difference between two documents. I would argue that in two documents this deficit, which you predicted, was only due to higher costs. If you compare the two documents and do not take into account what you think you have now been heroic in improving tax receipts, you have actually admitted that you have increased costs compared to the previous coalition.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U42	No, it's not accurate. The general government position has been improved as a result of the government union agreement. There are also measures that, although they worsen the position, do not increase government expenditure. For example, if some taxes fall, some money will not be collected and will have a negative impact on the budgetary position, but the measure itself will not increase costs. If we look at the impact on the cost side of government plans, including increases in child benefits and reductions in taxes, this is estimated at EUR 156,2 million. And on the other side of the budget, where there are sources of cover, there are 232.8 million. If you calculate quickly, you will see that this difference in terms of improving the position is EUR 76.6 million. This is the direct financial impact of the government union agreement. However, all EUR 76.6 million cannot be used 100% to improve the position, because in addition to the government union agreement, there are other important channels for the government to channel taxpayers' money into. Several investments must continue just to ensure that our sites do not deteriorate, and costs must also be incurred in the first phase of the implementation of several reforms. We have now agreed that about half of this 76.6 million will go to improve the budgetary position. But the fact is, the position is improving.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U43	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U44	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! On Monday, when you answer this question, you assured us that, compared to what was agreed in the coalition agreement, the coverage sources are EUR 40 million more than the costs to be incurred. I'm asking you, what are you taking away 24 million road bills for? There's 16 million left. Taking off the road money is economic stupidity. Why are you dealing with economic stupidity?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U45	As I said to the first questioner, because forecasts show less growth this year, we must make decisions that will improve the state budget position. And it is precisely EUR 40 million, which represents about half of the 76.6 million that I have mentioned, that we are planning to improve the budgetary position. The aim is to make sure that we not only balance our finances but also achieve a small surplus. This small surplus needs to be targeted, even because of what Mr Sester asked about today in the first question. We would also like to be firmly on balance in the eyes of our external partners, but also on surplus. Planning with a small margin gives us much greater confidence that the European Commission, which, as an independent observer, assesses the structural position of our budget, will also see that we are meeting our own objectives. That is why the government has taken decisions that are aimed at improving the budgetary position.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U46	Tiit Tammsaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U47	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I guess we are all a little concerned about the current economic growth in Estonia and not the best results of last year. One reason has been that economic growth was hampered by a warm winter that the press has taken seriously to account for. Perhaps you could explain once again to both the press and all the Members of Parliament how the warm winter had a negative impact on our economic growth?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U48	It must certainly be said to begin by saying that the results of the initial recession in the first quarter are also part of the fact that our foreign trade partners did worse than expected. And even if, for example, Sweden's GDP increased, Swedish exports, of which our exports are very dependent, were in decline. That's where part of the minus came from. But really, there's nothing to joke about. I agree with you if you talk about the impact of the warm winter. Partly due to the warm winter, partly due to better electricity connections, electricity production in Estonia decreased by a whole fifth in the first quarter. Electricity consumption did not fall as much. But we now have not only Estlink 1 electricity connection to Finland, but also Estlink 2 next to it, which means that up to 1000 megawatts of electricity can be purchased from Nordic countries to Estonia if necessary. From the point of view of the consumer, this is a much more favourable position. We can buy energy that's the cheapest in the neighborhood. At the same time, the production of Eesti Energia was badly affected. I believe that the drop of one fifth of production over the year is a very serious blow, and it also affected the GDP indicator. No one here doubts that if electricity production in Estonia as a whole decreases so much, GDP will also be affected. We have a very advanced plan to build an additional electricity connection in Latvia as well, and when it is finished, the position of Eesti Energia and the position of Estonian electricity generation will definitely improve. We can also sell electricity to Latvia, and that is why the future will be better.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U49	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U50	Now a question for the Minister of Education and Science Jevgeni Ossinovski. Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U51	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, A few weeks ago, our inquiry was answered by the Minister of Social Affairs, Mrs Helmen Kütt. This question concerned the fact that the Language Inspectorate had checked and fined several hundred medics in quite a short time, mainly in Ida-Virumaa. Later, when I spoke to Mrs Hunter, I learned that you have discussed this problem with her and have come to the conclusion that it is necessary to organise language courses for extra medical practitioners, where they would be taught not the common language, but, above all, the medical language that is needed in their daily work. Is this information true, and if so, when might this miracle happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U52	Thank you. I don't think it's a miracle. I have always believed that in order to ultimately achieve our common goal of people speaking Estonian in Estonia, both in medicine and in other sectors, the state should support them in this endeavour, including language courses. It is true that it is reasonable to offer different language courses to different target groups, not all in general, where people with different interests and needs are all in the same class. In the past, this has also been done with the support of European Union money. For example, during the 2007-2010 period, 120 employees of Narva Hospital, 87 employees of the Western Tallinn Central Hospital, 120 employees of the Ida-Viru Central Hospital, 13 employees of the Kiviõli Health Centre, 30 employees of the Narva-Jõesuu Hospital, 20 employees of the Kohtla-Järve Vanuri Nursing Home and 30 employees of the Iru Nursing House were trained in the language development programme. The next adopted programme was also intended to provide language courses for medical staff, but this was cancelled due to the lack of funding. We discussed this problem yesterday in the Estonian Language Council, where this issue is clearly raised. However, there is still no final clarity as to what will become of teaching the language to adults in the next period at all and also in the context of the integration plan. I would very much like to see clarity on this in the near future. I have also really talked to the Minister of Social Affairs about this subject, and we are trying to find ways to offer professional Estonian language courses to medical staff in cooperation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U53	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U54	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, At the time, Minister Kütt replied to one question by saying that the Language Inspectorate is not in the habit and has no obligation to coordinate their work plan with the ministries. Will such a situation persist in the future, or will it be changed in any way? I am thinking, above all, of the health sphere. What's there to deny is that we don't have enough doctors. And if we start terrorizing them in Ida-Virumaa through the Language Inspectorate, we're not going to improve the situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U55	When discussing matters with the Minister of Social Affairs, I have also realised that not all doctors and nurses in Ida-Virumaa need to speak good Estonian. There are other ways to ensure that a person with Estonian language can receive medical care there. In the long term, of course, we may agree with you, all people living in Estonia could speak Estonian. Now the question is how to motivate it well enough. As regards the action plan currently being drawn up by the Language Inspectorate, as an independent body, they do so themselves. However, I do also have a question on which basis this is based. Whether this really reflects the actual number of complaints or whether they are based on other considerations. On the other hand, it is clear that the Language Inspectorate has acted within the framework of the current legal area and that its activities are certainly in full compliance with the law. In order to discuss these issues, I have a meeting with the Director General of the Language Inspectorate on 18 June. Then we will also discuss how to create a system that motivates the learning of the Estonian language. In general, the Language Inspectorate has increasingly shifted from fines and punishments to motivating people and directing them to language courses. But I agree that the quality of the language courses and their relevance to real needs leave something to be desired.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U56	The second point, Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U57	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, It was a little weird to hear that it was an independent organization. He's independent, of course, but as far as I know, he's still subject to the Ministry of Education and Research. But that's it. I ask you whether, as Minister of Education or as a member of the government at all, you and your colleagues have considered a proposal to lower language requirements for those people who do not need a higher level of Estonian in everyday work for a while. We once spoke in this Chamber of the Riigikogu about, for example, helping police officers in Narva. Another example is kindergarten teachers who teach children only in Russian in Russian groups. If not, why?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U58	Firstly, there will be a positive change in this respect. As of 1 January 2015, non-compliance with the requirements of the language law is no longer an offence within the meaning of the Penal Code or, of course, nothing more serious. In the future, people cannot be fined for violating language proficiency requirements. This point is recorded in the draft law amending the Penal Code pending before the Riigikogu and related to it. As a general rule, as I said, it is quite clear that our aim should be to support people in trying to learn the Estonian language on the necessary level. It is understandable to me, at the very least, that these are obvious regional and also sectoral differences, which put specific obstacles to language skills and language learning. There is a great need for some kind of agreement on how to resolve these issues in such a way that the working peace of the collectives is guaranteed, while people at the same time have the motivation to learn the Estonian language. As I said, it is possible to organise work in these same hospitals in such a way that it is possible to get help in Estonian. On the other hand, the state should once again consider ways to motivate people to learn Estonian. The question you have raised will certainly be discussed at the meeting with the Language Inspectorate on 18 June, and I will be happy to explain to both the public and to you what thoughts are in this area after that.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U59	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U60	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. On 1 January 1998, the government reorganized the Language Board for the Language Inspectorate, citing the sharp criticism of Mart Rannut, then Head of the Office. At the moment, it seems that maybe this decision was really a mistake. This may also be demonstrated by the reversion of the Heritage Protection Inspectorate to the National Heritage Board a few years ago. Do you not think that the error could be corrected and reorganized as the Language Administration of the Language Inspectorate, which would not only have a frightening and punitive function but also a teaching, examination and language policy-making function? The Language Board would then be responsible for the situation as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U61	I am not taking a position on this specific proposal at the moment. Of course, it is clear, as I have already admitted, that we have problems teaching the Estonian language to adults. There have been cases where adult people who have been directed to language courses by the Language Inspectorate have studied Estonian for 300 hours during the course, but after that it has been found that their language skills have not improved completely. Clearly, the problem here is not about specific people, but about the quality of language courses. Currently, there is basically no supervision of the work of Estonian language learning providers in the private market. It is not known to what extent the objectives of improving Estonian language skills will be achieved. Of course, it has produced an enormous amount of negative emotions .. people have actually wanted to learn Estonian, have spent their free time and money on it, but after a while it has become clear that a particular trainer was not good enough to succeed. Thus, the quality of language courses, both supported by the state and more widely, is something that the state should deal with more seriously. Again, this topic was raised at the meeting of the Estonian Language Council yesterday. We will continue to analyse it in the Ministry and try to figure out how to organise it better.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U62	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U63	I think there's another question in the Question Time for Evgeny Ossinovski, Minister of Education and Science. Jaak Aaviksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U64	Thank you. I will put my question very briefly. On 13 February, the government adopted a strategy for lifelong learning, which agreed to establish an implementation plan and nine sectoral programmes within three months. How are these things, and is it planned, as foreseen in this strategy, to plan the 2015 budget for education on the basis of these nine programmes, i.e. to switch to activity-based budgeting?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U65	Thank you. Firstly, of course, the adopted lifelong learning strategy, which many parties have worked hard to draw up and which has been approved by the government, is certainly the basis for the Ministry of Education's work, regardless of the minister. The implementation plan and sectoral programmes are being developed. True, compared to what is written in the strategy, the work has clearly stretched. The deadline has already passed. But that doesn't mean you're not dealing with it. The implementation plan in itself is ready in the Ministry, but we want to adopt it together with the sectoral programmes that are being developed. I hope that in the near future, everything will be done and that the documents will certainly be publicly available to everyone. And, of course, they serve as a basis for future decisions, including budget preparation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U66	I would like to thank Mr Aavikso for his brief question and the Minister for his brief answer. I'm sorry about Esther Tubsole, but there's no time to ask! Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U67	Dear Riigikogu! We will start the 16th working week session of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. Who wants to hand over drafts or inquiries? Please, representative of the Government of the Republic, Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U68	Mr. Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is today initiating a draft amendment to the Pensions Act and the National Pension Insurance Act and, in this connection, to the Amending Act and the Income Tax Act. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U69	Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U70	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu initiates the Riigikogu decision 'Revocation of a member of the National Opera Board and appointment of a new member', which provides for the removal of Marko Mihkelson, a member of the National Opera Board and the appointment of a member of the Riigikogu, Maimu Berg, a member of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U71	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U72	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Group of the Estonian Central Party have an inquiry into the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Urve Palole. Most of the re-independence governments of the Republic of Estonia, especially the last two, have made every effort to prevent Estonia from becoming a non-marine state and to remain a permanent seaside state. A merchant fleet is an integral part of a single sea state. It is for the sake of Estonia not having any more cargo ships that the last governments have contributed with their actions or omissions. Just before this year's European Maritime Day, 20 May, we learned that these efforts have borne fruit, that the last significant cargo ship, i.e. a cargo ship with a total weight of 500 tonnes or more, has left under the Estonian flag. When the European Union has started to celebrate Maritime Day in order to draw citizens' attention to the growing role of the maritime sector in our daily lives and to connections with the world through the seas and oceans, Estonian governments have considered the importance of maritime and maritime transport to be nothing. After long efforts, a maritime policy implementation plan has been adopted, with objective 1 setting out a performance indicator that reads as follows: 'The number of cargo ships flying the flag of Estonia is at least 50 by 2030. The intermediate indicator for 2020 is 35 vessels. " It's very interesting how it's going to happen. We have a number of questions about the implementation of this implementation plan for the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U73	I have adopted two drafts and one inquiry. If the drafts and requests for information comply with the Home and Working Procedures Act, the Management Board shall act with them in accordance with this Act. Now, presence control, please! 82 members of the Riigikogu are present, 19 is missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U74	The first item is the third reading of the draft Act on Structural Support for the period 2014 to 2020 initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. It is not recommended to take part in the negotiations. The Commission's proposal is that draft 622 should be put to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law on structural support for the period from 2014 to 2020 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. There are 80 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting bill 622 as a law, and there are no opponents or abstentions. The Structural Support Act has been adopted for the period from 2014 to 2020.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U75	The next item is the third reading of the Bill 619 of the Tallinn University of Technology Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The Commission's proposal is that draft 619 should be put to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law of the Tallinn Technical University, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 619. Please take a stand and vote. There are 80 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting bill 619 as a law, and there are no opponents or abstentions. The Tallinn University of Technology Act has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U76	The next item is the second reading of the Act amending the University Act, the Law on University of Applied Sciences and the Law on the Organisation of Research and Development, initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Mart Meri, member of the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U77	Ladies and gentlemen, As a reminder, the aim of the draft is to bring the relevant provisions of the regulation of employment contracts with academic staff into line with Council Directive 1999/70/EC of the European Parliament and to eliminate the differences between the Employment Contracts Act and the specific laws specifying the employment relationship of academic staff. The first reading of the draft act took place on 16 April, the deadline for submitting amendments, 2 May, no proposals were received from members of the Riigikogu, political groups or committees. However, some relevant observations came from the University of Tartu and the Ministry of Education and Research, which the Committee on Culture discussed at its meetings on 12 May and 3 June. The Commission decided to finalise three amendments for the second reading of the draft. The text of the draft has also been slightly editorially edited. I will now be brief on the amendments. The first amendment is based on a letter from the University of Tartu, which drew attention to a quite specific case that would put some members of the academic family in an unequal position and violate their legitimate expectations. In particular, the current version of the University Act provides that an open-ended contract of employment is concluded with a person who is in office at the same university and who has worked as a professor for at least 11 years. This draft Regulation repeals this specific provision by providing that the fixed-term employment relationship concluded before 1 January 2015 will run until the end of the term fixed in the contract and that new fixed-term contracts will already be awarded by open competition with the selected persons. According to a letter from the University of Tartu, there are 17 professors at the university whose year 11 as professor will be completed after 1 January 2015. According to the current wording of the draft, those persons, once duly elected as professors, should go through a public competition once more and their working relationship would only continue if they were re-elected as professors. According to the University of Tartu, such a forced situation would be contrary to the principle of legal certainty and would restrict the rights of these persons. The University of Tartu proposed to include an implementing provision in the draft, which would allow permanent employment contracts to be concluded with the persons described above without launching a new public competition. The Committee on Culture supported this approach and proposed an amendment to it. The second and third proposals were submitted to the Committee on Culture in a letter from the Minister for Education and Science and concern the harmonisation of general administrative procedures in the formal relations between the Ministry and the managing authorities. In short, it is the case that the law on the University of Applied Sciences and the law on the organisation of research and development provide for the conclusion of a contract of employment with the Rector of the University of Applied Sciences and the Director of the Research Institute. At the same time, in other educational laws, such as the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act and the Vocational Training Institution Act, the Minister has been granted the right to sub-delegation when concluding employment contracts. For example, the Minister has authorised the head of the school network of the Ministry to enter into employment contracts with the heads of general education and vocational training institutions of the State. Similar flexibility was sought in the above-mentioned laws. The Committee on Culture took note of the Minister's request and finalised Amendments 2 and 3 on the draft. It is true that the Commission heard opinions that the Minister himself could find time to sign a contract of employment and meet with the head of the administration. The proposed amendment does not exclude this possibility either. The Commission's decisions were taken on 12 May. It was decided to submit the draft to the second reading of 625 by 4 June and to invite the Riigikogu to conclude the second reading after examining the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U78	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. As regards draft 625, three amendments have been tabled by the Committee on Culture, and we will examine them. The first amendment is fully taken into account, the second is fully taken into account and the third is fully taken into account. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 625. There are no other proposals. Second reading of the bill is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U79	The second reading of the Act amending the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Law amending and implementing the Law on Law Enforcement 573 continues. The rapporteur is Mr Borodich, member of the Economic Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U80	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, let me talk a little bit about the procedure in the lead committee between first and second readings. As we all remember, the draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 13 January. The first reading took place on April 9. The second reading was suspended on 21 May because there were a lot of amendments and it was decided to come up with a new text instead. No amendments were received from members of the Riigikogu, committees or political groups until the second reading of the draft was resumed. It is also worth mentioning that the draft has also been delivered in the first place after the second reading has been discontinued. Proposals and opinions were submitted by the Ministry of Education and Research and by the representative of the initiator of the draft Ministry of Justice. Several proposals were received from other government agencies, including the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. Proposals of a technical nature were also formalised in the Steering Committee. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the draft at its meeting on 29 May and 2 June. A debate took place in the Commission during which the draft list of amendments was reviewed. On the subject of lengthy discussions, one arose because of two amendments received from the Ministry of Justice, according to which the initiator wanted to supplement the draft with amendments to the law on law enforcement, which would have changed the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure. As neither of the proposals relates to this draft, they were not supported. Result of the vote: for 0, against 5, with 3 abstentions. A longer discussion also took place in connection with the proposal to withdraw the draft Riigikogu member Tiina Lokk-Tramberg before the second reading, which provided for the exemption of some natural persons engaged in small business on an insignificant scale from the obligation to register in the business register. Such an obligation would, according to the proposal, only be imposed on persons and undertakings engaged in economic activities which are subject to an authorisation or notification obligation and have an economic activity with a turnover of EUR 16000 or more in the calendar year. In the meantime, an opinion was sought from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of Justice. Support for the proposal would require a change in a large number of laws. However, it was stated in the Commission that, although we do not support this proposal now, this issue must be dealt with separately in the Committee on Economic Affairs. There is a need to discuss how to make it easier for people who are knitting socks or anything that certainly cannot be said to be some kind of business or making a very high profit. But this is happening in the future. On 2 June, we continued to discuss this issue. Sander Põllumäe, Adviser to the Public Law Service of the Ministry of Justice, was present. We addressed two amendments, which had been voted through in the previous sitting, but one wording needed to be supplemented and re-voted, and the other was accompanied by a missing explanation. All the amendments are included in the material so that they can be consulted. I'm talking a little bit about proposals, 46 in total. These were mainly the proposals of the commission, which the Commission took into account. Explanations are attached to the amendments. Most of the amendments are of a technical nature. The proposals received by the Ministry of Justice from outside the Ministry of Justice have also been accompanied by the positions of the Chief Ministry and the Commission was able to take them into account before the vote. Let me talk to you about some procedural decisions. Decisions relating to the procedure of the draft act were taken at the Commission meeting on 12 May, were not discussed again in the Commission and were maintained in previous consensual decisions. But just in case, I'll go over them. The draft was sent to the Assembly for a second reading by 4 June with a proposal to conclude the second reading. In the event that the second reading of the draft was closed, the Commission proposed a third reading on 5 June and put the draft to a final vote. Just for information, the bill as a law requires a majority of votes in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U81	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. 46 amendments have been tabled to the draft proposal for 573. All amendments have been tabled by the lead committee. The first amendment has been taken into account. The second amendment has been taken into account. The third amendment has been taken into account. The fourth amendment has been considered. The fifth amendment has been considered. The sixth amendment has been taken into account. The seventh amendment has been considered. The eighth amendment has been considered. The ninth amendment has been taken into account. Amendment 10 has been taken into account. Amendment 11 has been taken into account. Amendment 12 has been taken into account. Amendment 13 has been taken into account. Amendment 14 has been taken into account. Amendment 15 has been taken into account. Amendment 16 has been taken into account. Amendment 17 has been taken into account. Amendment 18 has been taken into account. Amendment 19 has been taken into account. Amendment 20 has been taken into account. Amendment 21 has been taken into account. Amendment 22 has been taken into account. Amendment 23 has been taken into account. Amendment 24 has been taken into account. Amendment 25 has been taken into account. Amendment 26 has been taken into account. Amendment 27 has been taken into account. Amendment 28 has been taken into account. Amendment 29 has been taken into account. Amendment 30 has been considered. Amendment 31 has been taken into account. Amendment 32 has been taken into account. Amendment 33 has been taken into account. Amendment 34 has been taken into account. Amendment 35 has been accepted. Amendment 36 has been taken into account. Amendment 37 has been accepted. Amendment 38 has been accepted. Amendment 39 has been accepted. Amendment 40 has been accepted. Amendment 41 has been accepted. Amendment 42 has been accepted. Amendment 43 has been accepted. Amendment 44 has been accepted. Amendment 45 has been accepted. Amendment 46 has been accepted. The Commission's proposal is that the second reading of draft 573 should be completed. There are no other proposals. The second reading of Bill 573 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U82	Fifth item: Second reading of draft law 552 on maritime labour initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur shall be Marko Pomerants, Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U83	Good afternoon, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, Happy Estonian Flag Day! There are many ships flying the flag of Estonia on which this law regulates work, but this law also regulates work on ships that do not have an Estonian flag. But I'll tell you all the changes in turn. As we know, this bill has been initiated by the government, but it was done during the previous government. We have been handling this since February. There is no point in this long history and there is little reason to dwell, so I will go to the discussions that took place in the Commission on 20 May when we prepared the draft for a second reading. It must be said that the Commission has prepared a number of amendments to the text initiated by the government. They were largely born in cooperation with the shipowners' and seafarers' trade unions. Therefore, for example, the Social Democrats withdrew their amendments, which they had initially tabled. But here we all also have one point of thinking and voting, which I will later dwell on. Let us then examine these amendments. First of all, Amendment 1. The wording of § 2 (2) of the draft law will be clarified in relation to the current text and the way in which temporary agency work is to be handled will be in place. We offer this wording: 'This law also applies to temporary agency work on a ship other than those referred to in paragraph 1... ' Paragraph 1 tells us that this Act applies to work on a ship registered in the Estonian ship-locking book or on a ship chartered without a crew. But now there's more of that. This temporary agency clause applies if the employer is a legal person registered in Estonia and a member of the crew is the object of the Estonian Population Register. We had a consensus on the initiation of this proposal. It was also agreed that it would be reasonable, in accordance with the second amendment, to supplement § 2 (7) of the draft. This concerns the non-application of Articles 19, 28 and 29 of the Maritime Labour Act to ships used for the provision of pilotage services. What are these paragraphs 19, 28 and 29 talking about? Paragraph 19 speaks of bringing persons on board a ship. The normal situation is that, if the ship is in port and working conditions permit, guests may be invited on board the vessel with the permission of the master or another competent person. But a pilot ship is a small watercraft, which may not be possible to invite a friend. Therefore, this law does not need to be applied. Other paragraphs concern catering (§ 28) and accommodation (§ 29). The accommodation shall be provided by the shipowner while the crew is on board. Once again, the pilot ship is one where 24 hours of guarding the land and, depending on their duties, part of the life can be lived on the quay, in dedicated rooms. Therefore, the exception is that no visitors are brought to the pilot ship, no sleep, and no food is provided there. We didn't have any disagreements here either. Amendment 3 concerns § 17 (1) of the draft, in which the word'responsibilities' is replaced by 'tasks'. This can be considered a technical change. Other parts of the text use the term 'work assignments' throughout, but there was some reason for 'work obligations'. Here too, we had a consensus in the Commission. We also amended § 20 (3). This paragraph tells us how to behave when the items of the crew members are destroyed or damaged by a marine casualty, shipwreck or the occurrence of a shipowner. This compensation, according to the new wording, will proceed in such a way that the shipowner will compensate the damage suffered by the crew members in accordance with the procedures laid down in the Commercial Maritime Code. The original text stated that, in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Law of Obligations Act, but in the meantime, the shipowners' and the seafarers' trade union agreed that a text based on the provisions of the Commercial Maritime Code was acceptable to both parties. This was also accepted by the lead committee and such an amendment was initiated. The fifth amendment is a clarification. Paragraph 25 as a whole regulates the voyage of a crew member on the conclusion of a maritime employment contract and the location of the ship and the obligation on the shipowner to reimburse the crew member for the costs associated with it. This paragraph now states what this cost compensation would look like: from the moment the ship or ship leaves the ship, the ship owner shall calculate compensation for the crew member at a rate equivalent to that of the crew member, unless otherwise agreed in the maritime labour contract. The sixth amendment is a technical amendment, adding the words 'this law'. The seventh amendment is also a technical amendment and is due to the fact that one reference in the original text was incorrect. The eighth amendment is perhaps the most significant and concerns § 55 (7) of the draft. If you look at the text that is on the tables in front of you, there is no paragraph 7. The proposal that was born in the Commission is such that the text of paragraph 7 should be deleted from the draft. But I have to say that there was a very lively exchange of views in the Commission on this matter, and this resulted in such a vote: 3 in favour, 2 against and 1 abstention. If you look at the minutes of the Commission's sitting, you can see that there was a great deal of agreement on the rest of the points, but not on that point. So where's the dog buried? Paragraph 55 (6) states that if a ship owner exceptionally cancels a crew member's maritime employment contract because of a violation of employment obligations or illness or injury of a crew member, which the crew member concealed when concluding a maritime employment contract or intentionally caused to himself, the ship owner may require the crew member to reimburse the costs of travelling home. Makes sense. Paragraph 7, if this were the case, would say that the costs referred to in paragraph 6 of this section may be offset by the shipowner against the requirement to pay a crew member without the consent of the crew member. Why the debate? The debate relates to the fact that, if this set-off were not to exist, and based on the fact that a sailor with whom a maritime labour contract has been concluded could be anywhere on the globe, subsequent disputes about the right to set-off cannot simply be held. It's impossible for Reeder to catch wind in the field. As the Commission's vote has shown, there are two views on this matter. Reeder will not be able to make this set-off without the consent of the crew member. However, another option is conceivable, so that there is such a possibility. This debate is legally derived from § 78 of the Employment Contracts Act, which states that such off-settings may be carried out, but with the consent of the employee. However, it may also be that this is regulated differently in a special law. So, if it were not regulated at the moment, as proposed by the Commission, such an exception could not be used and would apply only the principle of §78 (1) of the Employment Contracts Act. We will certainly initiate a vote on this issue in this Chamber, so that you can look at the amendment calmly and take a position on whether to be in favour of or against this amendment. The ninth amendment provides for the amendment of the second sentence of Paragraph 60 (2). The crew member shall also be obliged to state the circumstances on which the right to return is based. In particular, it refers to the responsibilities of § 60 States to organise the home journey of a crew member. These cases, if the State should do so, are set out in § 60, but in order to clarify whether it is right to require the State to organise a journey home, the crew member should explain the circumstances in which a journey home should be at the expense of the State, not of the shipowner. As you can see from the protocol, we had a consensus on this issue. The tenth amendment is a technical amendment. For the sake of clarity, it is specified that the retention obligation in respect of complaints will apply within one year of the decision being taken. Once again, there was consensus in the Commission. Amendment 11 provides for a technical correction, an incorrect reference has been corrected. Amendment 12 concerns the text to be deleted from the draft text relating to the repeal of § 60 of the Commercial Maritime Code. The intermediate debates have led to the maintenance of § 60 of the Code. The Commission reached the following understandings: On 4 June, this draft law should be discussed here at second reading, and our consensual proposal is to conclude the second reading. In case this happens, this bill should be sent to third reading and we could probably meet this third reading on the agenda next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U84	There are questions for the waitress. Andrus Ansip, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U85	Thank you, Mr President. Good Marko! I'm sorry, I read the explanatory statement of the bill during your presentation, and I didn't notice, but I'd like to know. What was the deal with those girlfriends on the pilot ship?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U86	So let's take the section on the girlfriends of the pilot ships. I'll see where it is. I've lost that section number, but it was a little number. Paragraph 19. The term 'girlfriend' was my liberal use of the word, but it is § 19 of the Maritime Labour Act, which speaks of bringing persons on board the ship: 'A member of the ship's family may not bring any outsiders to the ship without the permission of the captain or any other qualified person. The master or any other competent person may not refuse to grant the permit referred to in subsection 1 of this section for the duration of the ship's presence in port unless this prevents work on the ship and the safety of the ship is guaranteed. ' But since the pilot ship is very small, § 19, which provides for ensuring that persons are brought on board, does not have to be implemented. However, § 19 (1) speaks of outsiders and, in my opinion, a friend belongs to them freely.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U87	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U88	Thank you. Dear waitress, This term 'crew member', of course, sounds interesting, but in fact, a crew member is a natural person working on a ship. If he works on one ship and then goes over to another, does he have to renew his maritime contract or contract of employment, throw it in the old corner and sign a new one? Is something like this happening or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U89	Thanks! I'm improvising right now without looking into the law for the right passage. However, the employment relationship with a particular ship ends and the new relationship has to start with a new contract.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U90	Andrus Ansip, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U91	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I understand that with this draft we are transposing the ILO Convention and aligning Estonian laws with the Council of the European Union Directive. The bill pays quite a lot of attention to the cost of sending a crew member home. How big is this problem in practice? Is it primarily the transposition of the directive and the ILO Convention, or is it also a practical problem in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U92	Thanks! We did not discuss statistics on this in the Commission. But I dare agree with your opinion (it would actually be fair to say that it is your opinion). This is, above all, a question of transposition, not so much of real life.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U93	No more questions for the waitress. I'm opening negotiations. Kalle Jents, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U94	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I, as a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, did indeed remain a minority this time in one vote. It was a vote on the eighth amendment, which is known by those who closely followed the presentation of the honourable rapporteur. I think that people of my age or the same age as me remember one of those wonderful TV shows where Tambov's choir was driving around Russia, and all the time it was all talk about sending this Tambov choir home for once. This entire Article 55 of the Maritime Labour Act is actually very humane. This places an obligation on the employer to bring sailors home in any case, wherever they are in the corner of the world. Indeed, in the original version of the draft, there was such an additional condition that only in that case could the money be taken from the sailor's salary if he himself was guilty of delivering him home, i.e. he had violated his duties or concealed his health disability or health disability, which prevented him from working. In my opinion, this approach was balanced. Unfortunately, between the first reading and the second reading, there were a number of proposals on the draft. However, a compromise was reached on the rest. I would like to congratulate both employers and trade unions for arguing the rest of these issues straightened out. But there really was a difference of opinion. I know that there are people who say that a contract of employment is sacred and inviolable, and there is no such possibility in the Employment Contracts Act that the employer simply deducts some expenses from the employee's salary. Of course they're right. At the same time, I say that the Employment Contracts Act does not oblige an employer to arrange for an employee to travel home, regardless of whether it is a construction, a transport or some other area. In order to ensure that there are no homeless sailors from ships flying the flag of Estonia anywhere in the corner of the world, the balance that was in the original version could remain in the draft. I call on the Committee on Legal Affairs not to support the vote on the eighth amendment. But on the other hand, I am calling for support for the draft on behalf of our group now, because it is a good draft and all the parties are waiting for it to be adopted as a fast law. I hope that we will conclude the second reading today and the third reading next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U95	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U96	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, There are two issues that raise discussion: the nature of maritime work and the validity or non-validity of the Employment Contracts Act. That marine work is special, we know. When we communicate with sailors, we actually perceive how much sailors as workers in distant seas depend on their employer, the owner of the ship, the captain of the ship and the employer's attitude towards their crew. At first glance, it seems that if a man has concealed an injury or has broken his own health, he could be sent home at his own expense. At the same time, the same point gives the employer quite a chance to incriminate the man of some kind of guilt, send him home and take the cost of sending him home from the man's salary. A man comes home and has no work or money. In such cases, unfortunately, an individual is always in a much worse position than an employer with a greater chance of defending his or her rights. So now the Employment Contracts Act could remain in such a situation to protect seafarers as well. The Employment Contract Act could also apply to seafarers here, and therefore the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee's proposal No 8 could be supported and voted in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U97	No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. There are 12 amendments to the draft 552, all tabled by the lead committee. The first one's accounted for. The second one is accounted for. The third one's accounted for. The fourth is accounted for. The fifth is accounted for. The sixth is accounted for. The seventh is accounted for. The eighth is accounted for. Marko Pomerants, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U98	I would like to ask you to vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U99	Thank you. We will vote on this amendment. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 8, tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs, which has been fully taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. There are 20 members of the Riigikogu in favour of this proposal and 57 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The ninth amendment has been fully taken into account. Amendment 10 has been fully taken into account. Amendment 11 has been fully taken into account. Amendment 12 has been fully taken into account. The commission has proposed that the second reading of the draft 552 be terminated. There are no other proposals. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U100	The next item is the continuation of the second reading of draft law 546 on the amendment of family law initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. The rapporteur is Mr Valdo Randpere, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U101	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm before you with a bill to amend the family law, which you can say is a long-made beauty. We've been over this for a long time. In the middle of April, I think on 16 April, this draft was at second reading in this Chamber and the Legal Affairs Committee itself made a relatively unusual proposal to interrupt reading, which was supported by the Riigikogu. The reading was canceled. We did this because we had the feeling that the bill wasn't quite as good as it could have been. After that, much work has been done on this draft, quite a lot of amendments have been tabled and discussed by the Committee on Legal Affairs at three meetings of the Commission. Liisa-Ly Pakostat, a member of the Riigikogu, who has worked very hard and has put forward many proposals, could be specifically highlighted. The proposals came from the Centre Party Group, the Women's Union Round Table, the Ministry of Justice, bailiffs and notaries. So this bill has gained quite a few new aspects. I must say that the Commission was essentially interested, and some of these proposals and views, which came a little later than the deadline for submission, were taken into account. We discussed them in substance. On many of the proposals, we have come to the conclusion that they are very interesting, they deserve attention, they should be discussed, but they should be discussed and further developed in the context of some other drafts, because they are not very well suited to this draft. As a result of the three meetings, ten amendments took shape, three of which I will look at in greater detail. I will not introduce all the proposals because some of them are purely technical. An important amendment is No 1, which provides that if one spouse holds a separate dwelling, on the basis of ownership, but at the same time as a common family dwelling, he or she may not, without the consent of the other (non-owner) spouse, dispose of the dwelling, assign the family dwelling to the third party or terminate the existing legal relationship which is the basis for the use of the dwelling. In principle, it should provide greater legal protection for a family where all property is not a joint property. However, this separate property, which is used as a dwelling, can still have comparable status to the common property, and cannot carry out transactions without the consent of the other spouse. The second amendment, which gave rise to a lively discussion and passion, was Amendment 4. It came from the Central Party Group. The law currently provides for maintenance obligations to extend to close relatives in the first and second stages, i.e. grandchildren to grandparents. The Centre Party Group's proposal was to exclude this second step from it, so that the maintenance obligation would only remain in force between children and their parents. The reason was that they believe that old people today, grandparents whose pension is small, are unable to guarantee this maintenance. At the same time, in the Commission, I hope that it was simply overlooked, that there is not, in fact, such an obligation that a grandparent must provide maintenance if he does not have the means to do so. This can only happen if the grandparent has the necessary resources to support himself or herself and has a surplus of resources, but it is impossible or too difficult for the parents of the child to claim the child's maintenance. Then this obligation may arise, not if grandparents themselves do not have sufficient resources. Secondly, during the Commission's debate, it became clear that the Centre Party Group had based itself on the assumption that our society was very poor and that this kind of connection should therefore be interrupted with second-degree relatives. Our conclusion was rather the opposite. Since our society is not yet very rich, this model could still remain in the law. In the future, on the day that we are as rich as our closest neighbours in the Nordic countries, we can return to this issue. In many countries there is a maintenance obligation only for first-degree relatives. So someday in the future, if our pensioners all live happily in a retirement home and are essentially independent of their descendants, we can return to it. But with today's Estonian traditional family model, we think that this option is better suited to supporting both first and second-degree close relatives. The third important amendment relates to how parents represent their children. That was one of the reasons we asked to stop reading. In the previous version of the draft, we had made an amendment, presumably based on the fact that parents are abusive to their children. I think it is better to assume that if one parent alone represents the child, then both parents agree. In fact, this amendment, which aimed at preventing one parent from making any transactions without the knowledge of another parent or on the account of the child, would not have helped to solve this problem. He would have made it more difficult for parents to live. All the more so as bank agreements relating to the use of a child's account already make a clear distinction as to whether they were concluded before or after 1 May 2015. So that change would not have changed the existing situation anyway. In the Commission, we decided that we would go back to the text in force and not make the amendment that we had planned last time and which had almost been done. We discussed all these issues at three sessions: 12 May, 13 May and 2 June. On May 13th, we made some procedural decisions. We decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 4 June (consensual decision) and that the second reading of the draft be stopped (by 5, 2 against and no one abstained). When the second reading of the draft is completed, we will have a proposal to send the draft to the third reading by 11 June with a proposal to put the draft to the final vote. The decision was consensual. I'm done.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U102	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Liisa-Ly Pakosta!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U103	Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I thank the Committee on Legal Affairs and its representative, Valdo Randpere. Indeed, there was a substantive debate in the Committee on Legal Affairs on the amendments. I hope that the proposals put forward will be discussed in the near future, even during the working hours of this Riigikogu. But I was forced by a more general fact to come here today to give a speech. When dealing with people, even civil status officials, on the subject of family law, it turns out that this law has become so complicated that even officials in this area give different interpretations. If, for example, I take the same maintenance obligation two generations forward and two generations forward, let us be honest, it is unique in Europe, another country where such an extensive maintenance obligation would apply, you do not know to mention it, then here too, there are very different interpretations. Probably the first thing family law needs would be a much more detailed explanatory statement or a longer list of examples. We'll take the same maintenance. Valdo Randpere gave the example that only if an elderly person, a pensioner, is left with something, he has a duty to support his grandchild. Some municipalities interpret this section of the Family Law in such a way that if, for example, a pensioner has an apartment, he could sell it and rent himself a room much cheaper, for example, and it could be treated as having resources over and should support his grandchild. I do not want to say here whether it is right either way or by definition, but there are certainly many questions in the family law that would require much greater social discussion. I say to my fellow Members for information that, for example, the imposition of custody rights also gave rise to different opinions within the Commission, which were not actually divided along the borders of the coalition and opposition. Different people also had a wide range of practical experiences. This, in turn, shows that we have either gone clearly on the way to overregulation, that law is not clear enough, or that the explanatory statement and explanations of the draft have been inadequate. In order for this law to really help people and to help better protect the interests of the weaker party in families, it is also important to consider not only making changes but also giving some more understandable explanations for the interpretation of the law. For example, I have received extremely contradictory explanations from the Ministry of Justice on the definition of custody, which this bill is currently changing in several places. The officials of the ministry have also not been able to say clearly what is meant exactly by what we are now changing several times again with the draft. I look forward to the following interpretations. But thank you very much for your attention. I hope the next few times will do better again.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U104	No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. There are ten amendments to the draft proposal for 546. The first amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs and has been taken into account, the second amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs and has been taken into account, the third amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs and has been taken into account, the fourth amendment is from the Group of the Centre Party and has not been taken into consideration, but is not subject to a vote in plenary, the fifth amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs and is fully taken into account, the sixth amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs and is fully taken into account, the seventh amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs and is fully taken into account, the eighth amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs and is fully taken into account, the ninth amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs and is fully taken into account, the 10 is from the Committee on Legal Affairs and is fully taken into account. The Commission has proposed to close the second reading of draft 546. There are no other proposals. The second reading of Bill 546 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U105	The second reading of the Code of Criminal Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws Act 578 begins. The rapporteur is Kalle Laanet, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U106	Honourable Chairman and Vice-Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, To begin with, I can tell Liisa-Ly Pakosta that all the drafts are discussed in the Committee on Legal Affairs in substance, so this draft is no exception. But I'm coming to bill 578 now. It was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 20 January 2014. On 12 March there was a first reading in this Chamber and the deadline for tabling amendments was 26 March. Amendments were received from the Estonian Central Party Group, and the Estonian Bar Association gave its opinion to the Commission. The Committee on Legal Affairs prepared the draft for a second reading on 20 May and 2 June. On 28 May, the Ministry of Justice sent further amendments to the draft and, in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, the Committee on Legal Affairs initiated 20 amendments. At its meeting on 20 May, the Commission examined the proposals put forward by the Centre Party Group, and the next meeting on 2 June was the initiation of the amendments and also the vote on the proposals. Three amendments have been tabled by the Centre Party and 20 by the Committee on Legal Affairs. Let's take a quick look at them. The first amendment, as you have understood, makes the title of the draft law shorter and clearer. A second amendment has been tabled by the Central Party Group and concerns the Convention on Human Rights. The Ministry of Justice raised the most objections to this amendment. He justified them by the fact that this proposal is not currently consistent with the idea of a directive of the Council of Europe and the amendment relates to other laws currently being prepared by the Ministry of Justice. This amendment was not supported by the Committee on Legal Affairs. Amendments 3 and 4 have been initiated by the Committee on Legal Affairs. The third proposal amends Paragraph 42 (1) (2) and concerns the designated lawyer. Amendment 4 has also been initiated by the Committee on Legal Affairs and concerns the need for a national legal aid lawyer. If, under the law in force, the defendant applied to the Bar Association for a lawyer, then the Pre-trial Tribunal will now issue an order and the Bar Association will have to comply with it. Amendment 5 concerns the appointment of a replacement defender. It is possible to appoint a replacement lawyer to take part in a specific procedural procedure or in a hearing instead of the main defender. Amendment 6 is initiated by the Committee on Legal Affairs and concerns the substitute defender by way of state legal aid. Amendment 7 is an amendment by the Centre Party and concerns amendments to the rules on searches. The Ministry of Justice is of the opinion that this, too, is the subject of the draft in progress. The Committee on Legal Affairs did not support this proposal. Amendment 8 is from the Centre Party Group and, in the case of an application for arrest, concerns the submission of copies of evidence for protection in order to prepare the defence tactics. The position is the same as in the previous amendment that this issue is being discussed in the Ministry of Justice. For this reason, the Commission did not support this proposal. The ninth amendment has been initiated by the Committee on Legal Affairs. This concerns the changes resulting from the Tax Administration Act, i.e. the introduction of a new programme, as well as the payment note, together with the reference numbers attached to the decision of the court. Amendments 9, 16, 21 and 22 are all of the same content. Amendment 10 provides that the court has a greater right to decide on the basis of the costs of proceedings. Along with this, the costs of the state may also increase. The Committee on Legal Affairs supported this amendment. Amendment 11 is initiated by the Committee on Legal Affairs. Criminal proceedings taking place in another country preclude the opening of criminal proceedings in the Republic of Estonia. Amendment 12 has given rise to quite a high level of media involvement. At first reading, the Minister for Justice said that he proposed to withdraw this amendment. Its original content was that before the decision was published, the court would replace the defendant's name by initials or characters. This change will be removed. Amendment 13 concerns international cooperation. Its content is that the obligations arising from an international agreement are higher than domestic obligations. Amendment 14 also concerns international cooperation. If criminal proceedings have been opened in some countries, it is important where the proceedings are concentrated. Amendment 15 has been initiated by the Committee on Legal Affairs. It concerns substitution protection and its implementation. Amendment 16 concerns the payment note again. Amendment 17 concerns the amendment of the Defence Union law. According to the Defence League Act, a person who has a restriction on working with young people within the meaning of the Youth Work Act is not taken as an active member. Amendment 18 concerns the possibility of applying for the Prosecutor General, which has been reflected in the media today. This amendment creates the possibility for a judge to stand as a national prosecutor, while preserving the social guarantees of the judge. Amendment 19 provides for the payment of state fees for the reproduction of court documents and pre-trial procedural documents. Amendment 20 clarifies terminology. Amendment 23 concerns the entry into force of certain points. The Act enters into force in general terms, but paragraphs 201, 241 and 411 of § 1 and §§ 22, 61 and 62 enter into force on 1 July 2014. Paragraphs 271, 52 to 73 and § 3 of paragraph 1 shall enter into force on 1 January 2015. What were the procedural decisions? They were made on May 20th. We proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 4 June. Our proposals are to conclude the second reading (a consensus decision was taken), when the second reading is closed, then send the draft to the third reading by 11 June (consensus decision) and put it to the final vote (also a consensual decision). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U107	Thank you. Good colleagues, do you have any questions? Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U108	Good colleague! I'm gonna ask you like a professional. Are the search rules so well established that the Central Party's proposal is not to be negotiated?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U109	Thank you for your question. We in the Commission discussed the rules of search quite thoroughly in the presence of representatives of the Bar Association and the Ministry of Justice. It was a substantive debate, and we finally reached this position, which I have already presented before. Since these criminal procedural aspects are currently being discussed in the Ministry of Justice, this issue could be discussed with the drafts that the Ministry of Justice will submit in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U110	Andrus Ansip, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U111	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! So, how did it end up replacing these personal names? Are there initials or characters, or are there still names?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U112	There will still be personal names, just as there is in the current law, there will be no change. The Ministry of Justice has identified the reason why they remain. The impact of this change has been too little analysed; it needs to be done in more detail. So there will be no change.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U113	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U114	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! With regard to almost all three proposals from the Central Party Group, you said that the Ministry of Justice did not want to support them, because this issue is under discussion and this law will come here in the near future. So, what's the law going on out there, and when's the law gonna be here?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U115	According to memory, this new bill is expected to reach our tables in the autumn of 2014.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U116	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. We are now going to examine the 578 amendments to the draft. 23 amendments have been received. The first is from the lead committee. The second is from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the position of the commission is that this amendment should be disregarded. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U117	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U118	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. Dear colleagues, I will put to the vote Amendment 2, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. Please take a stand and vote. by 35 votes to 22 members of the Riigikogu, with no abstentions. The proposal was supported. Amendment 3 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 4 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 5 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 6 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 7 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group; the position of the commission is that this amendment should be disregarded. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U119	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U120	Thank you! Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 7, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 16) and 49 members of the Riigikogu, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment No 8 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group; the position of the commission is that this amendment should be disregarded. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U121	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U122	Thank you! Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 8, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 19) and 47 members of the Riigikogu with one abstention. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 9 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 10 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 11 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 12 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 13 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 14 has been tabled by the lead committee. Karel Knight, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U123	Thank you. I would ask for this amendment to be voted on, and before that, I would like to ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U124	We are on Amendment 14. I'm declaring a ten-minute break. The hearing will be resumed in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U125	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Social Democratic Party Group has ended. We are on Amendment 14. This amendment was asked to be voted on. I shall put to the vote the 14th amendment tabled by the lead committee. Please take a stand and vote. In favour of 52 members of the Riigikogu, there are no respondents or abstentions. The proposal was supported. The 15th amendment has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 16 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 17 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 18 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 19 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 20 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 21 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 22 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 23 has been tabled by the lead committee. We have examined the amendments. The Riigikogu Board has received a proposal to interrupt the second reading of draft 578. This proposal has been tabled by the Chairman of the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Let us begin the vote on this proposal. I am voting on the draft proposal of the Social Democratic Party Group to suspend the second reading of 578. Please take a stand and vote. 50 votes to 11 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was supported and the second reading of draft 578 has been suspended. The commission of directors has proposed that the deadline for tabling amendments to draft 578 be 10 a.m. tomorrow, 5 June. We are done dealing with the seventh item.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U126	Let's move on to item eight. The second reading of the Act amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I would like to ask Rannar Vassilyev, Chairman of the Finance Committee, for the speech of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U127	Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 20 May and 2 June. By the deadline of 15 May, no proposals were received from the Riigikogu. So it can be assumed that exciting votes may not come in the Chamber. However, the Committee on Monetary Affairs has unanimously tabled one amendment on the date of entry into force. Due to the procedure in the Riigikogu, the date of entry into force planned at the beginning of the initiator, 1 June, is no longer realistic. It is therefore proposed to bring the date of entry into force to 1 July. The Commission's consensual proposal is to conclude the second reading of the draft and, when the second reading is completed, to make the third reading on 11 June. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U128	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. Let us begin the examination of the amendments. One amendment has been received from the lead committee. We've been through it. The position of the commission is that the second reading should be terminated. The second reading is closed and the eighth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U129	Let's move on to item nine. The second reading of the Act amending the Land Tax Act, the Land Tax Act and the Law amending the Land Tax Act, the Land Tax Act and the Income Tax Act is initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask for Tarmo Männi, member of the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U130	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of this draft was held in this Chamber on 29 January. Since it has been over four months, I consider it necessary to give you a little introduction to the content of this draft. The draft law sets out the procedures for calculating the land tax due on state-owned or unreformed countries and specifies which land is exempt from tax as publicly used land. Local authorities will also be obliged to provide the Tax and Customs Board with the basic data necessary for calculating the land tax from 2015 through the Land Tax Information System. The main objective of the draft law is to resolve the problems encountered in the implementation of the version of the current Land Tax Act and to ensure greater legal clarity. Local government entities have encountered problems in determining the tax price of state-owned plots and in furnishing the undefined legal term "publicly used land' used in subsection 4 (1) (7) of the Land Tax Act. The draft therefore stipulates that the land tax on unreformed land is to be calculated on the basis of the tax price of the land which is not earmarked. For the sake of clarity, the draft specifically mentions which land is exempt from tax as publicly used land. The purpose of the draft is also to ensure uniform presentation, quality and controlability of the data necessary for the calculation of the land tax. Therefore, the initiator proposed that local authorities be obliged to submit to the Tax and Customs Board, as of 2015, the data necessary for calculating the land tax through the Land Tax Information System. The Land Tax Information System is a database, a web-based information system that integrates data from other databases to calculate land tax and creates an environment for local government units to enter land tax base data. As a reminder, the land tax information system automatically consolidates the data necessary for calculating land tax from the following national databases: population register, land register, land register, building register, business register, state property register and address system. In total, it compiles data from seven national registers. The basic data on land tax collected from the registers will assist local authorities in providing the basic data needed to calculate the land tax to the Estonian Tax and Customs Board. The draft imposes an obligation on local authorities to verify the accuracy of the data contained in the land tax information system and, where necessary, to correct and complete the data. They must be confirmed and submitted to the Tax and Customs Board through the information system as basic data for the calculation of the land tax. The organisation of data in the Land Tax Information System does not affect data in other registers; in the event of a discrepancy, the local government can notify the staff member of the national database of the lack of data. Since 2013, local authorities have had the opportunity, through the Land Tax Information System, to look at the basic data required for calculating land tax in the national registers. According to the Ministry of Finance, nearly 70% of municipalities already use this option. By the deadline of 12 February, the Social Democratic Party Group received one amendment which was withdrawn during the procedure. After the first reading, the Committee on Monetary Affairs dealt with the draft at four meetings. During the process, the Commission met with representatives of the Association of Estonian Cities and the Association of Estonian Rural Governments. At first reading in this Chamber, colleagues asked me questions about the attitude of local governments. Concerns were raised as to whether the costs incurred by municipalities in improving the national register would be offset. There was concern as to whether the difference would be offset for the 90 municipalities that used a higher price before the introduction of the common regime. We met local government associations to discuss this. They got the chance to put forward proposals for us. But I have to tell you, they didn't take this opportunity. We met twice, but there were no suggestions. This means that local authorities should no longer have any complaints to the Committee on Monetary Affairs on this issue. However, I recall that the Law on the financial management of the local government unit, which has not been adopted for a very long time, clearly states that if the State imposes obligations on the municipalities, the State is also obliged to finance their execution. That law is still in force. If the municipality knows how to use it, it has the opportunity. But, unfortunately, a common regulation did not arise. The Commission also asked the Land Administration and the Ministry of Finance for an assessment of the deadline for implementing the land tax information system planned for 2015, from which onwards local authorities would also be required to provide the basic data necessary for calculating the land tax only through the Land Tax Information System. According to the Land Administration, the land tax information system will be completed as an information technology platform by the deadline of 1 January 2015. However, in order to avoid inaccuracies arising from incomplete data from other national registers, the Land Administration, which is an authorised processor of this information system, considers it appropriate to make the use of the land tax information system mandatory for local authorities after the completion of the land reform, i.e. from 2018. The explanations provided by the Land Office on the lack of data from the national registers were also a surprise for all of us in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Firstly, it became clear that 15% of natural persons do not have personal identification numbers in the land register. In particular, these persons are foreigners. It is not possible to automatically grant home relief to persons without a personal identification code or to submit tax returns. Secondly, the national databases do not reflect the border between densely populated and sparsely populated areas. Thirdly, the information contained in the building register is incomplete, which may lead to incorrect determination of home tax exemptions. The register contains around 80% of potential buildings, but in turn the circuit 70% of this 80% has no spatial location. Fourthly, national databases do not contain information on unreformed countries. Local authorities should manually enter all information concerning these countries into the information system through the Land Tax Information System, but by the time the land reform is completed, this information will hopefully be available in the registers. A serious problem emerged here, which cannot be resolved by this law: national registers are all a little off the ground and inaccurate. This law cannot solve this problem; it can be done in the relevant ministries whose administration these registers are. The Commission made one substantive amendment to the draft, postponing the mandatory introduction of the Land Tax Information System for the transmission of basic land tax data by two years: from 1 January 2015 to 1 January 2017. The Commission hopes that, during this period, the state of the basic data in the national registers will significantly improve and thus reduce the burden for local authorities to collect these data. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading of the draft and when the second reading is completed, we believe that the third reading could be done on 11 June. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U131	Good waitress, thank you! You have questions. Please ask questions faster! Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U132	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable spokesperson! You said that the date of entry into force of certain points in § 1 will be amended, they will now enter into force on 1 January 2017. You also said that the information system does not have all the data and that this data must be entered manually. Also, Mr Vasiliev enters the data manually into the computer, and there is no other way to do it, with his fingers. We are proud, in the same way, that we have an e-state, etc. in Estonia. How, then, can this information system be logged in like this, and it has been a very specific source of revenue for the state? Why does it take so long to complete this database, two years after the law was passed?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U133	Thank you for this question. Well, the question did come out to a large extent. I obviously have no competence to answer all the parts of this question. I would like to remind you of the latest document based on the registers, which we have all been working on in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. It was a declaration of financial interests. Some of the boxes were equally empty, since information from the main registers was not concentrated there. But these records are built exactly according to one method. The deadline that had initially been set for the municipalities to clean up in six months proved to be simply unrealistic. Now everything is going to work, and we hope that in two and a half years' time this system will be in place. There will also be some synergy and all registers will be completed. That was our idea in the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U134	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. One amendment to the draft proposal 558 has been received from the lead committee. We have examined the amendment. The position of the commission is that the second reading should be terminated. The second reading is closed and the ninth item is also dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U135	Let's move on to the tenth item on the agenda. The first reading of the draft Act 673 on improving international tax compliance between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the United States of America and ratifying the agreement on the implementation of the FATCA begins. It is a great honour for me to ask the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi of the Riigikogu for a chair of speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U136	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The document we are now ratifying relates to the FATCA (Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act), adopted in 2010 by the US, which aims to prevent tax evasion by US tax residents. For this purpose, it is desirable to collect information on accounts held by US tax residents in non-US financial institutions. In order to obtain information from financial institutions, a punitive measure is used: if the information requested by the financial institution is not provided to the US, 30% of payments from the US to that institution will be withheld. The FATCA Agreement aims in particular at reducing tax evasion. Mutual automatic exchange of tax information shall be agreed. Once a year, the tax authority forwards information about the accounts of US tax residents in Estonia to the US and receives information about the accounts of Estonian tax residents in the US. But this agreement is also necessary for the competitiveness of our financial sector. The criteria for meeting the requirements of the FATCA shall be agreed. In this case, financial institutions will not be subject to US legal sanctions. A similar agreement had been signed with the US by June by 32 countries or territories, including the major European countries. 34 countries or territories have reached substantive agreement on an agreement, including our neighbours Latvia, Lithuania and Sweden. As far as the Ministry of Finance is concerned, all Member States of the European Union are planning to conclude this agreement. The FATCA has led to a new level of automatic international tax exchange. The OECD published a new FATCA-based Global Communication Standard at the beginning of the year. The exchange of information based on FATCA is also planned by the European Union. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U137	Thanks for the presentation. There are no questions. It is now my great honour to ask Remo Holsmer, Member of the Finance Committee, for a presentation of the Riigikogu Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U138	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Finance discussed this draft at its meeting on 20 May. As the previous speaker, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi, said, this agreement has two objectives. First, reduce tax evasion. To achieve this, mutual exchange of information on automatic taxation shall be agreed. The second objective is to ensure the competitiveness of the Estonian financial sector. There were some questions raised in the Commission, which I am happy to give you a brief overview of. They asked how the banks would actually communicate this information. In response, the initiator confirmed that this is technically the case under the EU Savings Directive. The tax authority of the country, we have the Tax and Customs Board, forwards this information to the tax and customs authorities of another country. They also asked who are the two countries that do not join the FATCA. This is Austria and Luxembourg. They also asked whether such an exchange of information was already taking place within the European Union. The answer was yes. This closed the debate and the Commission took the following consensual decisions: to put the draft on the agenda by Wednesday, 4 June, and to propose that the first reading be stopped and that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 9 June at 3 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U139	Thank you, too, for this substantive report. You have questions. Andrus Ansip, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U140	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! Are commercial banks operating in Estonia interested in joining the FATCA Treaty or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U141	Yeah. If you read the explanatory memorandum to the draft Act on ratification before you, you will see that the Estonian Banking Association, which represents the largest commercial banks in Estonia, has confirmed this.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U142	Good answer! There's another question for you. Andrus Ansip, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U143	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. What happens if a country does not accede to the FATCA Treaty? What sanctions will follow?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U144	Thank you. 30% of transfers between banks will be deducted as a fine.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U145	Thank you for your report and your answers. No further questions. Representatives of the political groups, please, it is your turn to negotiate and to give input from your group to this item on the agenda. No calls, no negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading of draft 673 should be terminated. I will set the deadline of 9 June at 3 p.m. for the submission of the draft 673 amendments. The first reading is closed and the tenth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U146	Let's move on to item 11. The first reading of the Act on the Organisation of Health Services and the Amendment of the Traffic Act 667 initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I ask for a presentation of the Riigikogu Chair Minister Urmas Kruuse!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U147	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased to present to you a draft law amending the Health Services Organisation Act and the Traffic Act, which is aimed directly at enabling people to transmit their own health data, i.e. to complete the health declaration of the health information system, as well as to extend the circle of health professionals who may issue a medical certificate to a person for driving a motor vehicle. By regulating the preparation and issuance of digital medical certificates, we will make the process of issuing evidence clear and well controlled. We will also ensure that the health checks of motor vehicle drivers are uniform, regardless of the place where the checks are carried out. The further objective is also to review medical certificates in other areas and to make them digital. The new system does not change the current contraindications for driving motor vehicles, they are set out in the Directive, but it amends health surveillance and transparency. Digital evidence allows the patient to start getting a medical certificate more easily; he can read the results of the studies and the decision made on the certificate on the patient portal. The new regulation guarantees the state that all motor vehicle drivers have been subjected to the minimum required tests and have no contraindications for driving a motor vehicle. Developments were made on the patient portal in connection with the handling of the new medical document, the health declaration, and the use of these services. There were also a number of comfort services, such as multilingual health declarations, user manuals and pre-information requests from existing treatment documents. As a result of this development, medical certificates and decisions drawn up in the Health Information System will reach the Road Administration, including decisions on revocation of certificates. With the agreement of the patient, family doctors will start testing e-health certificates from the summer of this year. Once a patient's family doctor has joined the project, he or she will be able to send a digital certificate to the Road Administration. Until 1 April 2015, the issuer of medical certificates will have the possibility to compile and issue medical certificates digitally, but not yet. From 1 April 2015, a medical certificate may be submitted on paper only for objective reasons and the medical practitioner shall have a reasonable period of time to digitise the certificate's decision. I ask the honourable Riigikogu to deal with this bill and adopt it as a law! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U148	You have questions. Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U149	Thank you. Good minister! Has this draft been agreed with a representative medical organisation, such as a family doctor's association or an association of doctors? What did they think about that? After all, there is some additional administrative burden for them.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U150	Thank you. The preliminary story of this draft is, for example, that the family doctors made such a rather pragmatic proposal. If we look at the draft not only as regards the possibility for family doctors to issue medical certificates to occupational doctors, but also as regards the Commission, then the burden should, on the contrary, be spread between different specialists and the administrative burden on family doctors should be reduced. But the important reason why this bill came into effect in the first place is because the requirements for issuing a medical certificate are being harmonised. Regardless of whether the certificate is issued by a family doctor or occupational health care professional, the certificate must be adequate and appropriate to the health of the person.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U151	Tiit Tammsaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U152	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Of course, it is to be welcomed that this medical certificate is being moved forward. But in addition to a driver's license, a medical certificate is required for a weapons permit, including for entering the Defence League. Can't we finally get to one medical checkup, and then all the competent authorities will get this certificate? Is this a very big dream?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U153	Thank you, Reverend Asker! Actually, it's not a very big dream. The explanatory memorandum to the draft proposal indicates that we want to get to what the honourable questioner mentioned through the health information system: that if a medical certificate is needed for other reasons in the future, it would be possible to apply for it through the health information system. Data on human health are available in the health information system and there may not always be a need for a new health check if it has just been done to obtain evidence, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U154	Andrus Ansip, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U155	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I will continue to develop the issue of Tiit Tammsaare. When can we get to the fact that information in the health information system is being used for all kinds of medical certificates and that people will not be re-examined again before new evidence is issued?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U156	Thank you, honourable member of the Riigikogu. Indeed, the system will be fully operational for about one year from the adoption of the law. The draft does not only concern motor vehicle drivers, but also recreational boat drivers. The next steps are in that direction, but I expect in three or four years we should be able to expand this circle. This is not only about the issue of medical certificates specifically, but also about improving the functioning of the whole health information system. It can be said that more and more data are received every day to enable these decisions to be made.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U157	Maimu Berg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U158	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I want to go even further than colleagues and take advantage of the fact that the last few days are sitting here with us, Mr Ansip, who will soon be going to represent us in Europe. Is it conceivable that all this fine development of evidence will come to the conclusion that we will eventually be able to use such health certificates throughout Europe, throughout the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U159	Thank you, good questioner! When it comes to the Estonian state, e-state and specifically health care, there are certainly enough countries in the world that have studied and actually recognised our development in the field of e-health as a whole. This means that everything we deal with in the human health process, whether it involves treatment, prevention or the issuing of evidence, these practices and the models that Estonia has already implemented, can certainly be more common in other countries in the future. The development of the whole system is reasonable in that we take advantage of our best experience and are ready to use the practice of the rest of the world, just as the rest of the world uses our practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U160	Andrus Ansip, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U161	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I would like to tell Maimu Berg that when I go to Europe, I will definitely promote e-solutions in Estonia. But in order to give the statement a form of question, I will ask the good minister whether he is ready to recommend a pre-filled electronic solution to our declaration of economic interests to other European countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U162	Thank you, Reverend Asker! If I'm talking about a principle like this, I'm sure I'm ready to recommend it. When I talk about the fact that I myself recently filled out this declaration, I have to admit that at first it reminded me of the filing of a tax return. We see that the electronic submission of this declaration has reached almost 100%. I very much hope that this declaration, which the honourable questioner mentioned, will become as comfortable for the user as declaring revenue in our tax administration.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U163	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U164	Thank you. On Monday, our colleague, Andrus Ansip, spoke about a declaration of economic interests. He said it was so complicated and he worked three hours to get it done. But I'm gonna look at the health declaration, which I'm gonna need you to add information to. The question here is whether a person is schizophrenic, depression, medication, etc. I think it's a three-hour job, to be honest with you. Don't you think it's really a very complicated story?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U165	If the honourable questioner had in mind the health declaration and the questionnaire that the applicant must complete himself, it is actually based on an expert's assessment. It must provide an adequate assessment of our state of health before one or the other medical certificate is issued, either for the purpose of obtaining the right to drive or for any other purpose. I have also examined this questionnaire myself and I dare you to confirm that it will not take three hours to complete it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U166	Good minister, thank you! No further questions. I ask Rein Aidma, member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu Chair, for a presentation!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U167	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft Act on the Organisation of Health Services and the Amendment of the Traffic Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 667 before being sent to first reading at its meeting on 19 May. Ivi Normet, Deputy Chancellor of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Mari Asser, Adviser to the e-Health Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, and Inna Vabamäe, Head Specialist of the Health Department. Ivi Normet made an overview of the draft. I am not going to repeat this review here, as the Minister has already spoken enough about these issues in his presentation and in answering his questions. I will now present the questions that have been asked in the Commission. First, people were interested in the age to which people can use their driver's license. As we know, these age limits are not regulated, but drivers and professional drivers over the age of 50 must undergo medical examinations for more than five years. Others have this interval so far for ten years. They also asked what an objective finding meant. The objective finding, according to the doctor, is the result of the examination. They asked who the implementation unit was. Answer: eHealth system. It's been mentioned here before. They asked who was responsible for the certificate issued to the dementia patient. The doctor shall be responsible for the certificate issued. Another question was asked which studies should be carried out to assess whether the driver meets the health requirements. It was said that first, arterial blood pressure should be measured. Secondly, visual acuity must be checked and the field of vision assessed. Thirdly, a blood glucose test is necessary unless the applicant has already carried out this study in the last year and information is available in the health information system. The fourth criterion is an objective finding by body system. They also asked if the medical certificate reached the Road Administration, which is the cost. For one medical certificate, depending on the driver's category, this cost is EUR 10 to 20. More questions were asked about the transmission of data. Since these are sensitive personal data, the patient can determine to which institution he or she wishes to transmit an electronic medical certificate. The question is that the three institutions can determine the right to drive on the basis of a medical certificate. Finally, they asked what would happen when five years were over. The person's mobile phone number or e-mail address submitted to the Road Administration will then be notified. This was an overview of the Commission's questions and responses. Finally, it was decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 4 June and appoint Rein Aidma, Member of the Commission as rapporteur. It was also decided to make proposals for the completion of the first reading and to set a deadline of 10 working days, i.e. 18 June, at 5.15 p.m. All decisions were taken in a consensual manner. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U168	Thank you! You have a question. Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U169	Thank you, Mr President. Good co-rapporteur, thank you for this thorough review. There seemed to be a lot of questions under discussion. I would like to ask you, before finishing my first reading, if there are any other questions that we should be paying special attention to in the near future. Or are things clear, and the bill goes to second and third readings to be nicely adopted?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U170	I think that in the main, the draft is at such a stage that there should be no more changes, but if there is a desire to do so, we have given the opportunity to do so by setting a deadline.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U171	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? They do. I'm opening negotiations. I am very pleased to ask Viktor Vassilyev, the representative of the Estonian Central Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U172	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I have good friends in the United States. There's such a great time that if you want to take a pet, you have to run tests and prove that you're responsible, or responsible, and that your economic situation allows you to keep it. My friend's aunt wanted to get herself a cat and go for a test. Well, it didn't work out the first time, so it turns out his IQ was lower than the cat's. But he did it the second time. Of course, there are other resources in the United States, and they can afford any circus there so that the people can work and, specifically, make bread with the circus. Unfortunately, this is how we look. They're making up some kind of fun solutions, a whole bunch of officials working on it. They draw all kinds of PowerPoints and show each other, keep coming together, hold hours of meetings, and figure out some great new solution. Does it make someone's life better? Does it make someone's life easier? I don't think so. Look, I'm pretty skeptical about all kinds of databases. There was a brief mention of the implementation of the Declaration of Economic Interests. You know, I did it in a quarter of an hour, even though my economic interests are pretty complicated. But I was surprised that absolutely everything about me is known, even more than I know myself. There were things I, to be honest, didn't remember, but it all came out there. There wasn't anything scary about it, and it was fun and interesting to look at myself, so I found out more about myself. You know, if you start collecting human health data in this way, a lot of people might find out something new about themselves, but maybe somebody else will find out something about that person. Look, it's a really great idea that there's a uniform medical certificate. All human records are collected in one place, and if he wants a permit, one agency will look at them, if he wants a driver's license, then another department will watch if he wants a right to drive a small ship, then someone else will look. Who knows who else is watching them, right? Only we in this Riigikogu are very calm for some reason, because no one knows what the health status of any of us is and whether we are all healthy enough to work for the benefit of our people. Look, if a person applies for a driver's license and gets it, he'll drive. I think there have been statistics on how many accidents and victims have been in traffic because of health problems, how many because of inattentiveness. The most likely cause of accidents is alcohol consumption. But what I'm saying is that in traffic, it's not a dangerous diabetic with high blood pressure who can't see well because he knows he can't see well and drive cautiously. The danger is a 25-year-old completely healthy beak. He's the one who crashes the most, even though he's perfectly healthy, and he has to go to health check once every ten years. But now we're creating a situation where a person has to fill out his own health declaration. I don't think this is gonna work. I get a lot of letters, people ask about health problems. You don't believe how many people there are who don't know anything about their diagnosis. A person tells me that, yes, he went to the doctor, he was prescribed medicine, but he doesn't know what kind of medicine, and he doesn't know what his diagnosis is. So you should still see a family doctor, who would then give this certificate and send it electronically to the Road Administration. Then it'll be all right. But it doesn't make any sense to fill out a health declaration. Of course, this is the first step that will lead us to our bright future, which ends with the fact that we do not need to fill anything, but simply have a chip in our ears, just as it is required of cats and dogs today. Then everything will be fine, there will be a full review, and not everyone who does not know about any text from this courtroom will be able to enter the Riigikogu. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-04_U173	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The commission considers that the first reading of the draft should be terminated. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 667 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 18 June. The first reading is closed and the 11th item is also closed. Dear colleagues, thank you for your cooperation. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 4:22 p.m.
