ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-23_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the session of the third working week of the 8th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please, Mikhail Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-23_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Central Party Group, I will report an inquiry to Mr Pevkur, Minister for the Interior. The inquiry concerns the reform of the Police and Border Guard Board, which eliminates a number of jobs on the pretext of austerity. The aim of the reform is to raise policemen's pay ., although it is clear from the outset that without additional resources it will not be possible to raise wages in a way that does not suffer from quality. We wanted the best, but it turned out the way it always did. It is already clear that a large number of people are leaving the police who did not agree to lower their position. With them leaves a valuable experience. In the course of the reform, the area served by the stations is increasing, leading to a reduction in the response rate of patrols. With the reduction of constables, the link between the police and the population is deteriorating. This reduces internal security and reduces citizens' confidence in the police. In such a situation, the activities of the Ministry of the Interior are incomprehensible, which calls on young people to choose careers in favour of an internal security officer's profession, while the best staff, whose experience is impressive, are made redundant. We ask the Minister of the Interior four questions with which we want to know the real impact of the reform on the security of the Republic of Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-23_U3	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-23_U4	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Centre Party Group, I would like to address the question to Mrs Anne Sulling, Minister for Foreign Trade and Enterprise. The inquiry concerns the responsibility of the Board of the Development Fund. The establishment of the Estonian Development Fund was laid down in the Act adopted by the Riigikogu on 15 November 2006. The Development Fund was set up in principle to fulfil two tasks: helping the state to make long-term strategic choices and supporting the financing of innovative, high-risk ideas. So far, one of the most successful projects of the Development Fund has been the first investment made in Smartpost OÜ, a technology network for self-service post offices. The good news about the investment activity of the development fund came last week when the world's largest producer of 3D printers and print solutions bought up the Estonian start-up GrabCAD. Unfortunately, the Estonian Development Fund has recently attracted more attention because of the incompetent and lavish management style. Former Head of the Development Fund, Tõnis Arro, has already resigned from his post with the agreement of the parties. 24 July 2004 but the reasons for leaving came to the public only last week. According to the audit carried out before Arro's dismissal, the head of the Development Fund spent the fund's money without regard to the limit and rewarded himself with stock options. For example, he had a subsidiary of the Development Fund pay off a training of EUR 54 000 if it had been provided for an amount of one month's salary per year. A subsidiary of the Arro Development Fund also received a fee from a member of the Supervisory Board, which is generally unheard of. We therefore have a number of questions for the Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-23_U5	Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two inquiries. If they comply with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu shall forward them to the addressees without delay. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check, please. 84 members of the Riigikogu are absent.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-23_U6	Let's go to today's agenda. The first point is the third reading of the draft law amending the Food Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. The commission's proposal was for a final vote on the draft 642. Let's get ready for the vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Food Act initiated by the Government of the Republic 642. Please take a stand and vote. 82 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, there were no respondents or abstentions, so the draft has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-23_U7	Our second item today is the third reading of the draft law amending the University Act and the Veterinary Organisation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Is there a desire to negotiate? Please, Jaan Apple Tree! [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-23_U8	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, For a long time, the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine of the Estonian University of Life Sciences in Tartu has been concerned about its future. There is not enough money to go along with the requirements of time and modernise the teaching to the extent that it guarantees accreditation in 2015. I'm afraid the university itself doesn't have enough money. Veterinarian training is very costly and the development of quality in this area is quite an investment. I would remind you that the veterinary medicine profession is included among the seven regulated professions in the European Union, which require special national attention. As has already been said, teaching in veterinary medicine is costly because it requires, as well as human medicine, to gain sufficient clinical experience. For the international accreditation of veterinary training, students are required to acquire skills in the treatment of diseases and pathology of different animal species and to gain sufficient manual experience. One example is major animal education, where most of the study and treatment work takes place in farms. Outings with students usually require more time and equipment. Moreover, in the case of productive animals, the farmer often comes from an economic point of view; he does not want to spend his time on diagnostics and treatments, and therefore prefers to practice the animal. Therefore, the cost of the animal clinic at the county university as a teaching clinic is much higher than the income from health care services. The analysis of the situation and sustainability of veterinary training in Estonia, carried out in cooperation with representatives of the Ministry of Education and Research, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Estonian University of Life Sciences in 2012, showed that the current state funding of veterinary training does not cover the costs of clinical studies of students, so it is essential to find additional support to ensure quality of education. Additional funding for clinical training in veterinary medicine is also common in other countries. In Finland, for example, the Helsinki University Animal Clinic has an additional grant of over 2 million euros per year, but even this is considered insufficient. The preservation of an internationally accredited veterinary medicine curriculum in Estonia guarantees the internationally accepted competence of graduates, enhances the attractiveness of Tartu among foreign students and ensures the possibility of research based on science in veterinary and human medicine. The Social Democrats are pleased that the adoption of this bill as a law will solve one very big concern throughout Estonia in today's and tomorrow's vet training. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-23_U9	Thank you very much. Any more calls? There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission's proposal was to put the draft to a final vote on 627. We are preparing for the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the University Act and the Veterinary Organisation Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 627. Please take a stand and vote. 82 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law. Our agenda today is exhausted and the session is closed. I wish everyone a nice day. See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 10.13 a.m.
