ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U1	Honourable Riigikogu, hello! At the beginning of the Monday session of the 15th working week of the VII plenary session of the Riigikogu, it is possible to deliver drafts and questions. First of all, the representative of the Government of the Republic, Mrs Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U2	Mr. Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is today launching a draft law on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the United States of America on the improvement of international tax compliance and on the implementation of the FATCA. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U3	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! Let me introduce you to the questioning of several members of the Centre Party Group. In particular, we are interested in the position of Mr Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Education and Science, on valorising the work of kindergarten teachers. When higher qualification requirements were applied to kindergarten teachers almost ten years ago, there was a clear promise that kindergarten teachers would also be valued equally with school teachers. Unfortunately, the pay gap between kindergarten teachers is quite large until now, even double in regions. Significant changes are also needed both in teacher rest periods and in working hours. So we ask how the Ministry of Education and Research plans to value kindergarten teachers in the future. Does the restoration of the "Every Child Kindergarten Place" program under the Coalition Agreement include this time the harmonisation of the pay of kindergarten teachers and schoolteachers? If so, how? We are also of course interested in the fact that, when a signal has been given to society about school teachers that their work organisation will be specified in terms of hours and preparatory work, we would also like to remind you that, in the case of kindergarten teachers, the group's work and the preparation for it were so far set out separately. Finally, we would like to know whether the 12 extra days of leave currently available to teachers, but the kindergarten teachers do not have, will also apply to kindergarten teachers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U5	On behalf of the board, I have adopted a bill and an inquiry. The Board of the Riigikogu decides on the adoption of the draft law in accordance with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. An inquiry shall be communicated to the addressee without delay if it meets the requirements. Please, let's do the presence check! There are 80 members of the Riigikogu; there are no 21 members of the Riigikogu. The next item is the adoption of the agenda. Looks like there are no suggestions. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the agenda for the 15th working week of the VII plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. 77 members of the Riigikogu are in favour of approving the agenda and there are no respondents or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed. According to the newly approved agenda, inquiries will now be answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U6	The first question to be answered is the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Valeri Korbi, Vladimir Velman, Viktor Vassilyev, Kalev Kallo and Peeter Võsa concerning the extradition of citizens to other countries (No 396). On behalf of the heirs, please speak to the Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U7	Ladies and gentlemen, On 8 April, the members of the Central Party Group and I made an inquiry to the Minister for Justice, which is about the extradition of citizens to other countries. In our inquiry, we write that in November 2011, Estonia and the United States seized persons suspected of being involved in a large-scale computer fraud in the course of a law enforcement operation. It is suspected that from 2007 until November 2011, they organised the development and distribution of malware and the concealment of the criminal proceeds from the use of this malware. Interestingly, there is a slight turnaround in this case on 20 December last year, when Harju County Court acquitted all persons detained in the course of the operation in the Court of First Instance. The Harju County Court found that there is no evidence of the defendants' guilt in the illegal legalisation of money obtained by cybercrime, and they must be acquitted. Despite the acquittal decision, the Government of the Republic issued an extradition order on 14 November last year, which decided to extradite three Estonian citizens to the United States. We therefore have some questions. Why was the aforementioned Estonian citizens extradited to the United States before Harju County Court had made its decision? Is this normal behaviour in Estonia? What are the statistics on the extradition of Estonian citizens in recent years? How many preliminary extradition procedures are currently pending at the Ministry of Justice and the Public Prosecutor's Office? Estonia has previously issued individuals charged with cyber crimes to the United States of America. We want to know how many of them have been convicted in the United States. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U8	Minister of Justice Andres Anvelt will have to answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U9	Mr President! Dear Members of the Riigikogu, good questioners! First of all, before dealing with your questions, I would like to make it clear that the criminal proceedings in Estonia against these persons and the criminal proceedings in the United States are completely separate procedures. These persons have been charged with various charges in the Estonian criminal case and in the United States criminal case. The criminal case being processed in Estonia is not the subject of criminal offences in the United States of America. But let's get to the questions. The first question: 'Why were the aforementioned Estonian citizens released to the United States before the Harju County Court had made its decision? Is this normal behaviour in Estonia? ' As I explained in the introduction, Estonian criminal proceedings and criminal proceedings in the United States are separate procedures, so it is wrong to try to identify them. The Ministry of Justice of the United States of America applied to Estonia for the extradition to the United States of America of six Estonian citizens - Vladimir Chaschini, Timur Gerassimenko, Dmitri Jegorov, Konstantin Poltev, Valeri Aleksejev and Anton Ivanov. Individuals are accused of computer crimes committed in the United States between 2007 and October 2011: conspiracy to commit Internet fraud, conspiracy to infiltrate a computer, internet fraud, invading a computer to promote fraud and sending data to a computer. In Estonia, Vladimir Chechin, Timur Gerassimenko, Dmitri Jegorov and Konstantin Poltev have been charged with money laundering and the organisation of a criminal organisation for money laundering. In the course of the proceedings, Harju County Court issued a judgment on 20 December 2013 acquitted the persons. This decision has been subject to appeal by the Public Prosecutor to the District Court and proceedings will begin in June. Valeri Alekseyev and Anton Ivanov were not subject to criminal proceedings in Estonia and were issued to the United States in 2012. The legal basis for the extradition of a person to a foreign country is the legal admissibility of extradition, and Harju County Court has assessed that the extradition of such persons is legally permissible. Decisions taken in the course of judicial review of the legal admissibility of extradition have all been unchanged and have entered into force. In order to challenge the legal admissibility of extradition, the outcome of the judicial review procedure, as well as the final decision on extradition, i.e. the order of the Government of the Republic, a full court appeal is guaranteed to persons under the Code of Criminal Procedure. Order of the Government of the Republic of 14 November 2013 on the extradition of Dmitri Egorov has entered into force by order of the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court decided not to settle the appeal in accordance with § 219 (6) of the Code of Administrative Court Procedure. In other words, the Supreme Court was convinced that there were no grounds for proceeding with a cassation appeal and that the purpose of the appeal could not be achieved. Dmitri Egorov has been extradited to the United States. Timur Gerassimenko and Konstantin Poltev have also filed a complaint with the Administrative Court for the annulment of the Order of the Government of the Republic of 14 November 2013. The Administrative Court and the District Court have dismissed their complaints and it is possible to submit further cassation to the Supreme Court. Vladimir Chaschin's extradition was decided by the Government of the Republic. a at the meeting on 15 May, and this arrangement can also be challenged until the Supreme Court. Thus, these extradition procedures, which have received attention in every way, are entirely legitimate. Question two: '2013. In November 2008, Interpol, an international police organization, declared Eerik-Niles Kross a worldwide fugitive suspected of piracy. At the time, the Estonian Government did not respond to Interpol's call. According to the Public Prosecutor's Office, the evidence and information were not sufficient to suspect the hijacking of Kross. Was the information and evidence provided by the United States for extradition sufficient for the extradition of persons detained in Operation Ghost click? 'The extradition of persons is governed by the Code of Criminal Procedure and by international conventions and agreements. The extradition of persons between Estonia and the United States takes place in accordance with the extradition agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the United States of America. The extradition of persons between Estonia and the Russian Federation is governed by the European Convention on Extradition and the Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Russian Federation on Legal Aid and Legal Relations in Civil, Family and Criminal Matters. According to the Estonian-Russian Federation Legal Aid Agreement, no extradition shall take place if the person whose extradition is sought is a citizen of the party to the contract who has obtained the enquiry. This means that the Republic of Estonia will not extradite Estonian citizens to Russia and the Russian Federation will not extradite Russian citizens to Estonia. Russia declared Eerik-Niles wanted in the Kross Interpol system, but there has been no call from Interpol to which Estonia should have responded. Russia has not submitted an application for extradition of Eerik-Niles Kross to Estonia, but as noted above, Estonia does not hand out its citizens to Russia. The state prosecutor's office has repeatedly informed the public about the case of the cargo ship Arctic Sea and the criminal case to be dealt with in Estonia on the basis of the section on piracy of the Penal Code. The state prosecutor's office has stated that the evidence available does not give rise to suspicion of Eerik-Niles Kross. The case of Eerik-Niles Kross has nothing to do with these extradition procedures to the United States of America and there is no possibility of linking them. Can't compare the incomparable. An important principle of extradition procedures, which must not be forgotten in such cases, is that the requested State does not carry out criminal proceedings in respect of the offences on which the request is based in the extradition procedure. The requested State shall not decide on the issue of guilt. As already explained in the reply to the previous question, the legal admissibility of extradition is a prerequisite and the extradition of all these persons to the United States has been declared legally permissible by the Court. Question 3: 'What is the statistics on the extradition of Estonian citizens in recent years? How many preliminary extradition procedures are currently pending at the Ministry of Justice and the Public Prosecutor's Office? ' In 2013, it was decided to issue three Estonian citizens, two citizens were issued in 2012 and no Estonian citizens were issued in 2011. The Ministry of Justice does not currently have any extradition requests in the preliminary proceedings. The fourth and final question: 'Estonia has previously issued a number of individuals to the United States who have been accused of cyber crimes. How many of them have finally been convicted in the United States? ' Persons issued to the United States of America have been convicted there and, according to current practice, they have been sentenced to penalties which do not exceed those which are understood in Estonia under the Penal Code for similar crimes. For example, Valeri Alexeyev, issued in 2012, was sentenced to four years in prison in the United States court. Nor does the Ministry of Justice have any information that any of the citizens of the Republic of Estonia issued have been acquitted. However, we do not have information on all final sentences, as the recognition of guilt and punishment in the American judicial system may not take place at the same time, there may be a time shift between them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U10	Thank you. Members of the Riigikogu have questions for the Minister. Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U11	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Your answer gave the impression that it wasn't that simple at all, it was quite complicated. I actually have a very simple question for you. Did the Government of the Republic compare the offences contained in the extradition application and the offences covered by the criminal judgment in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U12	Thank you. You said my explanations were complicated, I say your question was a little complicated too. I understand you mean the case in which the Harju County Court acquitted Chechin, Gerassimenko, Jegorov and Poltev. But these citizens were acquitted of other crimes, i.e. not of the crimes that America is chasing them for. America demands them for computer crimes, Internet fraud, etc., I read them before. On the other hand, in Estonia, the procedure had been initiated with the charge of money laundering. They've been acquitted at first instance, but that doesn't mean the prosecutor won't appeal. The accusation of money laundering is probably due to the fact that I have not been familiar with the case files, I am talking about the possibility of moving money on the basis of what was published in the media, which we were able to read about in the media last year or early this year (land deals, real estate purchases and sales, etc.). These two criminal cases, Estonian and American, may be indirectly related, but the actions or delicts are different in this case.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U13	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U14	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Since the Code of Criminal Procedure provides for the Government of the Republic to decide whether to extradite citizens to foreign countries, I am interested in the way in which the Government of the Republic has a substantive decision-making process. Who proposes how this will be discussed and how will the decision be made?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U15	Thank you. It's like every decision of the Government of the Republic. The government member preparing the decision is the Minister of Justice, who brings the draft decision to the government, and the government then decides on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U16	Peter Võsa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U17	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Is the extradition of Estonian citizens to foreign countries compatible with fundamental rights, where they can be expected to be punished tens of times more difficult than prescribed by Estonian law?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U18	Thank you. I have already replied that the sentence imposed by a foreign court in this case is the United States, with which we have an agreement to that effect, must not be stricter than the penalty imposed by Estonia's analogous rule of law. Actually, there are two rules. We, as well as those who want to get the accused or the suspect from us, must have essentially the same rule of law. It may be titled differently, but the content must be the same. As I have read before, for example, in the criminal law of the United States, the term 'conspiracy' is very much used, and we do not have it directly. This means systematic group action. But this same Internet fraud must be essentially the same crime in our penal code. In that case, there must be no higher penalty than we have for an analogous crime.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U19	Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U20	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Are you deliberately trying to mislead us, or are you not familiar with these materials? "The Spectator" and newspaper articles clearly point out that when the case of money laundering was discussed, the court demanded that specific eats concerning this computer crime should also be presented. After all, the Court has ruled that nothing has been done wrong in this matter, that experts have been on the ground and that this issue has been discussed for quite a long time. At the moment, it seems as if it has not been discussed at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U21	I must grieve you. You're a little lost yourself. Why? I would like to stress once again that the investigation of the crime of money laundering that has now passed the first court in Estonia may have indirect links with the American criminal case. But even as Minister of Justice, I have no right to have access to such details. I know the indirect links are because the potential income that was suspected of money laundering may have been caused by crimes committed in America. But it's up to the court to decide. I stress once again that these citizens are now acquitted at the Court of First Instance, or Harju County Court. How the procedure works, not known by the Minister of Justice, not by a member of the Riigikogu, and probably not by God in heaven, if he exists.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U22	Andrus Ansip, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U23	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister, do you consider the United States rule of law? In other words, if you are convinced that a fair trial in the United States is guaranteed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U24	Thank you. I'm convinced of that on the basis of my personal experience. Not that I've been judged there, but I've been studying there and I know that in America the constitutional requirements are very strict. The protection of people must also be guaranteed at the same level as in Estonia, at times even higher. So I have no doubt at all about the jurisdiction and justice of the American court, given the fact that their legal proceedings are mostly a little different, there is a jury duty. But they've been acting with the same system for decades. I believe that Estonian citizens who have been convicted or are about to go to trial there have exactly the same right of appeal as all others, including the citizens of the United States.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U25	Lauri Laasi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U26	Thank you. Dear Minister, Would you describe in a few words the government debate that took place before the Chechnya decided to extradite it to the United States? Is there a debate at all, or was it found that if America insists, then a decision must be made without further discussion?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U27	Thank you. Decisions in the Government of the Republic shall be taken by way of advance negotiations, if that is the case. The members of the Government of the Republic shall examine all draft decisions and, if the members of the Government do not have any further questions about the item on the agenda, the decision shall be deemed to have been adopted at the meeting of the Government of the Republic. This is the case for most decisions, as pre-negotiations have already taken place and therefore the differences have been largely resolved.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U28	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U29	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. Do those countries that apply for extradition differ in any way and are there agreements with them before? Are countries being grouped in any way, or are they being re-examined each time?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U30	Thank you. This is also a very important issue on the side of international law. All countries that have entered into some kind of legal relationship with each other are governed by such agreements. In this case, extradition takes place on the basis of an extradition agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the United States of America. I have also given an example that a different agreement has been concluded between Estonia and the Russian Federation. It is based on the Council of Europe Convention, which does not oblige its citizens to issue. Within the European Union, these mechanisms operate again in the third way. The Code of Criminal Procedure follows the European Arrest Warrant, which also obliges the other country to react exactly. Countries outside the European Union generally regulate these relations either on the basis of a convention or bilaterally in some cases.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U31	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U32	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! At the moment, we have passed the first reading of the Riigikogu proceedings and the second reading of Bill No 578 in the Commission. This is also the area we are talking about. The conditions under which and the evidence to be provided by the issuing State concerning suspects in order to be issued to that State shall be specified. Do you think this should help to ensure that the rights of the citizens of the Republic of Estonia who are being demanded are better protected?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U33	Thank you. Certainly, according to the draft drafted by the suspect and his lawyer, more rights will be granted, for example, for access to materials, but most of the provisions still concern extradition techniques within the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U34	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U35	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. We talk a lot about the role of government in this big game. In the media, it has recently been said that the Government of the Republic itself does not make any decisions, and the decision on extradition is taken by the Ministry of Justice and the Public Prosecutor's Office. Are our journalists wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U36	Thank you. After all, you are on the right track. The Government of the Republic takes the decision, but the preparations are really going to the Ministry of Justice, because according to international agreements, this is the job of the Ministry of Justice. It will first examine the documents, i.e. whether they meet all the requirements of the relevant Convention or, in this case, the agreement between America and Estonia. The Ministry of Justice prepares these materials for the Government of the Republic who will then make a decision at their hearing. I think that basically all the decisions that are made in the Government of the Republic are prepared either by a minister or by a member of the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U37	No further questions. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. I will stop dealing with this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U38	The next is an inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu, Kadri Simson, Tarmo Tamme, Valeri Korbi, Kalev Kallo, Viktor Vassilyev, Urbo Vaarmanni and Lauri Laas on 10 April about the problems of the Enterprise Estonia (No 398). Speaker's chair, Kadri Samson, on behalf of the inquisitors!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U39	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Six weeks ago, we briefed the new minister, Mrs Anne Sulling, on the problems of the Enterprise Development Foundation. We deliberately handed over the inquiry at the very time, although the new Minister for Foreign Trade and Enterprise had not yet completed 100 days in office and has not yet completed 100 days in office. Six weeks ago, as we know, there was a very serious problem with the Enterprise Development Foundation and its management. Our inquiry will focus not only on what goes on with EAS, but also on the question of who is responsible for the mistakes made in the past. Let's just look at the problem. EAS is the institution that distributes grants for Estonian average and small enterprises to a large extent. In the previous funding period, the amount of grants to be transferred was EUR 900 million, and in this funding period it is EUR 500-600 million. It tends to happen from time to time that some of the EAS decisions are incomprehensible, while some companies receiving support do not use it for their own purposes. Yet, so far, the EAS has not paid enough attention to all misdemeanours. We realized that much of the problem was that everything wasn't okay with running the EAS. That is why we asked the Minister for an assessment of what are the biggest problems of the EAS at the moment and how they are to be resolved. Even now that a new board of directors has been appointed to the EAS, there is still a vacancy, who will become the CEO, how the manager will be found. Certainly, a minister who is more closely engaged in foreign trade and exports could have a clear idea of what the role of EAS should be compared to other similar foundations in successful exporting countries. I am not going to read out the five questions that we have asked, because it is easier for the respondent to concentrate when he reads the question himself and then gives the answer. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U40	Thank you. The question must be answered by Minister Anne Sulling. It may also be reasonable to remind the Minister that he has 15 minutes to answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U41	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu and good members of the Riigikogu! I'll read the questions and answer them. The first question: 'What do you think are the biggest problems of EAS at the moment? How are they to be resolved? ' I would first like to mention what Kadri has already referred to. These questions were asked on 10 April, and at that point the main issues on the agenda were the management of the EAS. They have now begun to be resolved: on 5 May a new EAS Council was established and the new president's competition was launched on 6 May. I myself see opportunities, not so much problems, in the case of EAS. I see what more and even better can be done. Broadly speaking, I think that EAS is doing very well with its tasks. But even if it's good enough, you always have to see how you can do even better. The first task of the EAS Board is to confirm a well-functioning management board. The management competition was launched on 6 May and applications for six candidates have now been received. At this point, if there are good candidates in your community, I would like to encourage them to apply. The application period runs until 2 June. Until the new Chairman of the Management Board is appointed, the current Chairman of the Management Board, Taavi Laur, will continue. This time, the Supervisory Board forms the EAS Board in a different way. The Supervisory Board gives the Chairman of the Management Board the opportunity to set up a team as he sees fit, as this will enable him to be better responsible for the work of his team. A single executive should create prerequisites for the better functioning of the organisation as a whole. As a next step, I consider it necessary to update the EAS strategy and reflect on the future role of the organisation. At present, the focus of the EAS is on controlling the processes involved in the distribution of grants, and this has been done very well, even excellently, given the small amount of support and the fact that the callbacks were less than 1%. However, in the future, as aid volumes decrease, support for businesses through advice, information sharing and paving the way for foreign markets will become increasingly important in EAS. The centre of gravity of the EAS must therefore gradually move from the implementing agency to the competence centre. EAS must play a significant role in helping Estonian companies to export markets and serving foreign investors in Estonia. On the side of supporting exports, consideration should be given to whether it would be possible to join forces, for example, between us and our northern neighbours. In the last week's state visit, this was a possible point. In this case, the opportunities for cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and our foreign representations must also be well considered, why not also with the network of honorary consuls. As far as foreign investment is concerned, the focus must be on those areas from which the Estonian economy as a whole has the most to gain. In attracting foreign investments to Estonia, priority must be given to those investments that allow Estonian products to add value and create well-paid jobs here. It is also important to make customer relations more efficient when investors have already decided in favour of Estonia and confirmed it here. Finally, one of the most important tasks of this year is to open up EAS structural support measures as planned and to ensure that structural support helps our companies in the most efficient way. The second question: 'What are the progress made by EAS compared to similar agencies in Finland, Singapore, Sweden, Germany and many other countries? ' I must say, first of all, that there is no one-size-fits-all organisation in any of these countries which, at the same time, deals with entrepreneurship, internationalisation, tourism and regional development, but compared to the so-called analogues, EAS can be regarded as a success. For example, over the last seven years, EAS has financed more than 12500 projects. At the end of last year, EAS customers exported EUR 4.8 billion worth of production. This represents 29% of all Estonian exports. According to the mid-term assessment of business grants in 2012, exports of customers in the EAS portfolio have increased by 34% and sales revenue by 27% faster than on average in Estonia. This is a very good result in international comparison. The results of EAS also speak for themselves in attracting foreign investment. For example, the Lithuanian Investment in Lithuania and the Finnish Greater Helsinki Promotion have the same size of team and budget to bring investment to the country, but we were once again at the forefront here. The result of the Lithuanians last year was 22 projects, the Finns 20 projects, and 26 projects were brought to Estonia with the help of EAS. Between 2010 and 2013, the total volume of foreign investment projects carried out with the help of EAS amounted to 285 million euros and the number of jobs created was 3100. Among the projects are many well-known companies, such as Ericsson, Stora Enso, Financial Centre Kühne + Nagel Eesti, IT Development Centre PKC Estonia, etc. One of the aims of EAS is to develop the tourism sector, which is reflected in attracting foreign tourists, i.e. staying in Estonia. In comparison, there are also agencies for the development of the tourism sector. Compared to Estonia's performance in the last five years with other countries, overnight stays of tourists have increased 43% in Estonia, 31% in Germany, 20% in Finland and 5% in Sweden. EAS has contributed to this growth through the state's marketing, support for cultural and sporting events, as well as the financing of tourist attractions. Visiting the main tourist information gate, or Visitstonia.com, has increased to 3.8 million visitors a year. Question 3: 'The chairman of the EAS Board has said that there would be only specialists and entrepreneurs in the Council who would cooperate. Nor is he in favour of appointing officials to councils. What changes are you planning to make in the Foundation Board? ' This question is a little out of date, but I will describe what I used to build up the Council. My concept was to bring together competent people in the council, who would benefit the EAS in setting up their strategy for action. In the Council, I wanted to see companies with experience in exporting traditional processing industries and exporting a new economy who would bring to the Council the experience and understanding at grassroots level of what support exporting companies need from the state. I thought it was very important that there was a person in the Council with a great experience in managing the organisation who would help to think through and direct the necessary adjustments in the structure of the EAS organisation. In addition, I found that the Council needed a 'big picture', or a person with a macroeconomic background, who could put the interests of different sectors into a broader picture. Of course, the Council also needs a representative from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, who has an overview of the structural support policy and ideally also the historical memory of what happened in EAS, as well as an overview of the solutions tested. Finally, I considered it necessary to invite one representative of each coalition party to the council who would have an entrepreneurial experience. In the Council that I have proposed, Toomas Talts represents the new economy from the private limited company Codeborne and the traditional exporter David O'Brock from Molycorp. With the experience of managing a large organisation, Erki Mölder is in TREV-2 and the macro-economic picture can be compiled by Maris Lauri. The representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is also Ahti King, Chairman of the Supervisory Board, the representative of the Social Democrats is Anto Liivat, the training company, and the former manager of the Räpina Paper Factory, Meelis Mälberg, with the experience of the Reform Party. I am delighted that a strong, broad-based and multifaceted Council has come together, and I have already observed that their work has a good internal climate and the necessary working peace. Question 4: 'The 622 companies who received support from EAS on the 2004-2010 period have been removed from the business register, have been wound up or have been bankrupt 41 companies. What changes do you consider should be made to the system for allocating EAS benefits? 'This result has been obtained from an interim evaluation of business grants two years ago. The next mid-term review is ongoing, and although the results are not yet public, it can already be said that the bankruptcy of companies has almost doubled. A number of necessary changes have already been made to the system of granting aid compared to the period referred to. The EAS has greatly improved the segmentation of companies, i.e. products and services are being developed for specific groups of companies that already have a certain capacity. In addition, the financial sustainability of companies will be further assessed. The customer-based service model has changed, helping customer managers to take more proactively into account the potential problems faced by companies. The result, for example, is that start-ups have increased their survival rate to 96%. That's twenty percent better than a couple of years ago. The principles of grant sharing will continue to be reviewed in the future in order to meet their objectives. Question 5: 'Spot Parking OÜ is one of several cases where the public gets the impression that the EAS goes around carelessly with the funds for grants. In this case, were internal controls carried out, and what penalties were followed by those responsible? The case of Spot Parking OÜ is indeed unfortunate and has been learned from it. In the bankruptcy proceedings of Spot Parking OÜ, EAS brought an action for the recovery of the aid, but due to the error of the employee it was not submitted within the deadline. The assistant legal officer of the EAS legal unit thought that the application would be submitted to the court by the assistant of the office, while the assistant of the office knew that the assistant of the legal unit would do so. Lawyer's assistant who made the mistake is no longer in EAS. What lessons have been learned from this incident? EAS has implemented a robust system. Firstly, a calendar of procedures is in place. All procedural time limits for legal proceedings shall be recorded in one central Outlook calendar and in the calendar of the person responsible for double coverage. Compliance with the time limits is the responsibility of the originator of the document, including the author of the procedural document, who always checks that the signed document has also been expelled from the EAS and, if necessary, does so himself or instructs the bureau to do so. Secondly, regular monitoring of the bankruptcy notices has been introduced. In October 2013, the system for monitoring bankruptcies was also amended. Now an EAS Information and Support Centre staff member makes a monthly general monitoring of the reports of bankruptcy published in official notices. He is looking for a bankruptcy application or declaration of bankruptcy against any of the beneficiaries of the EAS. Each week, the employees of the EAS Information and Support Centre monitor the announcements of bankruptcy of those bankruptcy proceedings that have already been included in the EAS system. This system will be implemented in November 2013. The results of the monitoring shall be sent back to the claims experts for information and, where appropriate, for further action. Thus, the case has been learned and the necessary control systems have been implemented. This was a regrettable case that should not be extended more generally to the activities of the EAS. That's all for me.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U42	Thank you. There are questions for the Minister. Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U43	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The press revealed that some members of the previous EAS Board were favored, i.e. they received grants either from their own companies or from familiar companies. However, in the case of large volumes, although the volume is not the most important, it casts a dubious shadow on the Council. I have a question of how the new Council will ensure that the members of the Council do not take advantage of their companies. In the case of the previous Council, there was talk of bias towards a particular party. Is the new Council neutral?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U44	On Thursday this week, the new EAS Council will meet, and one item is planned to discuss the internal rules. We intend to make it a condition that the members of the board of directors, from the moment they are members of the board of directors, must not submit applications for aid for companies or organisations that are affiliated to them. It'll probably be fixed on Thursday. What has been, has been, but from the moment a person is a member of the Council, he should not apply for EAS benefits.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U45	Andrus Ansip, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U46	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I know you can't answer for and on behalf of the EAS Council, but I'm asking your opinion. Do you consider it appropriate to seek a council consensus when appointing a new manager, or do you consider it appropriate to have an earlier practice, according to which the chairman of the board was appointed by a vote of 6: 5?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U47	Looking at how the current Council works, it seems to me that this policy of how decisions can be achieved seems to aim for consensus. If there are disagreements, then obviously voting may become necessary, but I understand that the members of the Council want to participate in the discussions. They have shown themselves very constructively already at the first meeting and I would like to hope that the new chairman of the board will be elected in a consensual manner.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U48	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U49	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I have a question. You described in a very long and convincing way the competence of the new EAS Council and how they were appointed on your proposal and signed by Mrs Palo on 5 May. The first meeting was on 6 May. We have a meeting of the National Broadcasting Council tomorrow, and we received the agenda on 6 May, the same day that the EAS Council was together. There's no regulation in EAS? Did the members of the council know what they were going to discuss at that meeting? I understand you were at that council meeting yourself. How did it work? What did they come to decide, and where did their knowledge come from when they had only been appointed the previous night? Are there any laws or the Council's rules of procedure on this, or does the Statute regulate it in any way?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U50	The President of the Supervisory Board sent the material before the members of the Supervisory Board could be consulted. Everyone was also called and asked if they could attend the meeting. They had time to get to know the materials, everyone's answer was positive, and everyone was there Tuesday morning.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U51	Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U52	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I ask how you see the responsibility of officials, especially when wrong financial decisions are made. Should an official take some responsibility for this with his money or with his salary?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U53	This is a risk management issue. I wouldn't judge that.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U54	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U55	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. Ideally, additional jobs should be created through EAS grants. Do you have any statistics on how many more jobs came last year, for example? Or did it happen that because of 'efficiency' or 'competitiveness', the number of jobs fell? Which of the objectives of EAS was the creation of more jobs or improved competitiveness of companies, which does not necessarily mean more jobs?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U56	The biggest drivers of jobs, of course, were foreign investors who invested here and created jobs here. I also mentioned the figures in my answers, with 3100 jobs created between 2010 and 2013. Undoubtedly, these investments have brought more jobs. I agree that subsidies should have a time-supporting effect on economic activity, i.e. they should not have a one-off effect. It is important that the support favours the continuation of economic activities.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U57	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U58	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. In your answers, you also mentioned that an interim evaluation is under preparation. You hope that, according to the mid-term assessment, the number of companies receiving bankrupt aid has doubled. Can you specify who will prepare this interim evaluation and when its results will be made public?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U59	I'm indebted to the answer that the structural unit of EAS is preparing this mid-term assessment. Yeah, I owe you an answer here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U60	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U61	Thank you. Madam Minister! If we're talking about EAS, we're talking more about the board and the board. But I looked at the articles of association, and it says exactly that there may be councils in the structural units. Since no one's saying anything about them, I have a question. Are there even councils? Or am I wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U62	Yeah, there are councils that work. I know that there is a council in the field of tourism that works for the respective structural unit, and there is also a council at the IT-demo centre. I know that the council will also be set up with a unit that deals with business grants. It's being prepared right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U63	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U64	Thank you. Honourable Minister! There's been a report going through the media that you wanted Jaan Treesaw and Krõõt Kilvet to be members of the council. Is this statement true? If that is what you wanted, how did it happen that they were not appointed members of the Council and who were appointed to replace them?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U65	I have to say, I've considered a hundred very good candidates, including Jaan Tree Saws and Krõõt Kilvet. But I had to pick seven, and I chose seven. So not only were these two very good names left aside, but they were around 90. I don't think I should start dissecting everything on my own. I do not think it is justified to single out these two, and to consider the advantages and disadvantages of these people. But those were my decisions. What was published in the media, as if someone had made those decisions for me, is not true. I had my free hands in the assembly of the Council, and I also presented the Council to the Prime Minister and to the Secretary-General of the Party before being presented to the Group. They didn't have any objections either, and so it happened.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U66	There are no further questions for the Minister. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish to negotiate. I will close this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U67	Next is the inquiry into the unemployment benefit of the members of the Riigikogu, Yana Toomi, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Valeri Korb, Priit Toobali and Eldar Efendiev, submitted on 8 April. On behalf of the heirs, please speak to the Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U68	Ladies and gentlemen, On April 8, s. a we, five members of the Central Party Group, presented an inquiry to Urmas Kruus, Minister of State. The issue of inquiry is unemployment insurance benefits for employees of companies in default. In our inquiry, we write that there has been a lot of talk in society lately about how the Estonian state does not provide enough security for its people. An employee, or taxpayer, is an important resource in our country whose rights must be protected as one of its priorities. Unfortunately, the government of the Republic of Estonia does not pay enough attention to this and therefore workers lose the protection of the state. In an inquiry, we are talking about situations in which a person is working in a company that is in difficulty and, as a result of difficulties, the employer has not paid the employee an agreed fee for several months. In most cases, the person who has not received the money will usually turn to the Labour Dispute Committee, where he or she will be entitled. However, there is nothing to do with this right if the employer continues to fulfil his obligations. In order to deal with this situation, the law gives the employee the right to apply to a bailiff in order to initiate a forced execution. However, forced execution is not a magic wand, if the company does not have any money, it will not pay out wages in the event of forced execution. Then, after a failed execution, bailiffs recommend in most cases that the employee go to court to initiate bankruptcy of the company. It takes several months to deal with the above, but during this period, the person has no income and also has the right to apply to the unemployment fund for help. The right to apply to the unemployment fund for unemployment benefit only arises after the company has started bankruptcy proceedings. However, bankruptcy proceedings are brought before a court where the judge has the right to require the originator of the bankruptcy proceedings to make a deposit, i.e. an advance payment, which may be necessary to cover the remuneration of the insolvency practitioner and the costs of the proceedings. According to the people who have come into contact with the deposit, the requirement is a normal practice, especially in cases where the employer's financial situation is unknown and there is no real estate. The payment of the deposit has become a major obstacle to the employee's recourse to the court, as the deposit set up by the court, such as EUR 650, is too much for an incomeless person. Our Chancellor of Justice has also referred to the unfair situation that has arisen. He believes that people have been wronged and that ministries must develop a solution that takes into account the interest of both the public and the individual. In this regard, we have three questions. Has the Ministry of Social Affairs discussed this problem in cooperation with another ministry, and what are the views? Please explain what substantive solutions have been proposed and what are the positive and negative aspects of each solution. When is a bill expected to close the loophole and guarantee the person's constitutional right to unemployment benefit? So we expect answers from the Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U69	An inquiry has been submitted to Minister Urmas Kruus. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U70	Honourable Chairman! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will read the questions on this subject and try to answer. The first question: 'Has the Ministry of Social Affairs discussed this problem in cooperation with another ministry, and what are the positions? " The answer is short and clear. Indeed, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Justice have held joint meetings and discussed this issue and are looking for ways to solve the problem. Possible alternatives were also analysed in cooperation with the unemployment fund. The second question: 'Please explain what substantive solutions have been proposed and what are the positive and negative aspects of any solution! 'The purpose of the payment of the insolvent benefit is to compensate the employee for the loss of earnings, holiday pay and benefits provided for in the Employment Contracts Act due to the insolvency of the employer. In order to cover the employer's risk of insolvency, the employer's liability insurance is provided, where the unemployment insurance system takes part in taking over the employer's obligations and in the event of his insolvency, the employee is paid a loss of earnings, holiday pay and termination compensation. In order to mitigate the risks of insolvency, the employer pays unemployment insurance contributions, the rate of which is laid down in the Unemployment Insurance Act. Thus, the employer's contribution to unemployment is specifically linked to the insolvency of the employer only within the meaning of the Bankruptcy Act and not to the conditions of the unpredictable deterioration of the other economic situation. Pursuant to § 19 of the Unemployment Insurance Act, the employer's insolvency is to declare the employer bankrupt and to close the proceedings on the application for bankruptcy due to the collapse of bankruptcy proceedings. The current law has been developed on the basis of the Council of Europe Directive of 20 October 1980 aimed at providing workers with minimum protection in the event of an employer's insolvency. This Directive was the basis for the definition of insolvency laid down in § 19 of the Unemployment Insurance Act. Insolvency is defined in the Bankruptcy Act. According to Paragraph 1 (2) of the Bankruptcy Act, a person is insolvent if he is unable to satisfy the creditor's claims and that inability is not temporary due to the debtor's financial situation. In this respect, it should be stressed that if a permanent insolvency occurs, bankruptcy proceedings must be opened. According to § 36 of the General Part of the Civil Code Act, members of the management board of a legal person or of the body replacing it must file for bankruptcy if it is evident that the legal person is permanently insolvent. In the case of companies, the Commercial Code also provides for an obligation to file for bankruptcy without delay, but no later than 20 days after the company's permanent insolvency has occurred. The purpose of this obligation is to ensure that the legal person does not continue to operate permanently insolvent. Failure to comply with the obligation to file for bankruptcy is also punishable under the Penal Code. The above provisions must ensure that insolvent legal persons do not act and, in the event of permanent insolvency, management board members are obliged to file for immediate bankruptcy. Effective and effective implementation of these provisions must guarantee the employee's right to compensation for the employer's insolvency under the Unemployment Insurance Act. However, we recognise that there are problems that hinder the effective functioning of these provisions. The Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Justice also discussed the possibility of providing for the concept of employer insolvency in the Insurance Act in order to make it easier for people to seek compensation. Extending the concept of insolvency and making a substantive assessment of insolvency in other laws or institutions may, however, lead to confusion in practice and abuse of the claim for compensation. The Ministry of Social Affairs proposed to the Ministry of Justice that consideration be given to the possibility of exempting employees from paying the interim administrator's fee and the deposit necessary for expenses, and then to ensure that persons can apply for unemployment benefit. On 31 October 2013, the Ministry of Justice sent an e-mail to the Ministry of Social Affairs in support of the exemption of employees from the obligation to pay the temporary administrator's remuneration and the deposit for expenses. But at the time, he didn't specify the deadline for the amendment. Under such a solution, the deposit is paid from public funds and the amendment relieves the economically disadvantaged persons of the costs of bankruptcy proceedings, including the remuneration of the administrator and the payment of the deposit. The third question: 'When do we expect a bill that would close the loophole and guarantee the right of a person under the Constitution to receive unemployment insurance benefits? In this regard, it should be borne in mind that, as the Chancellor of Justice admitted, the infringement described above could also result in a violation of the employee's other subjective rights. " May 7, s. a we received information from the Ministry of Justice, according to which the draft amendment is scheduled to be sent to coordination in June this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U71	Any questions for the Minister? No, it's not. I'm opening negotiations. There are questions, I'm sorry! Andrus Ansip, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U72	Mr President, I apologise for the delay. Good minister! As is known, the legislator has set limits on the amount of the bankruptcy benefit to be paid. Although the amount of bankruptcy benefit is not dependent on unemployment insurance, it is limited. And I have observed that, in very many cases, workers credit their labour force, working for too long, to the employer, hoping that the unemployment insurance fund will pay out all these unpaid salaries. Do you think that communication can be useful in preventing such problems?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U73	Yes, honourable questioner, communication is certainly necessary and useful in such cases. We really have to admit that workers are sometimes too blue-eyed and actually contribute to this negative economic situation, after which they themselves are in trouble. Although we know that, according to the law, there is a duty to notify insolvency that is continuous and is not directly dependent on one economic environment or another. So I'm going to join the questioner's opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U74	Thank you, Minister. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish to negotiate. I will stop dealing with this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U75	Next is an inquiry to the Estonian Riigikogu members Kadri Simson, Yana Toomi, Mailis Reps, Tarmo Tamme, Priit Toobali and Lauri Laas on 14 April (no 400). An inquiry has been submitted to Minister Urmas Kruus. Please introduce Kadri Simson.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U76	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, We have asked both ministers of the Ministry of Social Affairs for the same purpose, because on 14 April, when we gave the question, it was clear that ministers' responsibility would run in exactly half when the subject was the health check on young children. On 11 March s. A majority of the Riigikogu voted off the draft initiated by the Centre Party Group, the content of which was to propose to the government to deal with a situation where parents neglect the infant and do not pay attention to it by medical staff. There is an increasing problem in Estonia that newborn children are deprived of proper parental care. Children are neglected, forced to suffer empty stomachs and abuse. The problem with the health surveillance system for young children is that, while family doctors are obliged to monitor children, parents are not obliged to take children to the doctor. According to the Health Board, there are situations where the newborn is not on the list of any family doctor for months. Therefore, the responsibility for carrying out a child health check has not been defined. According to family doctors themselves, there are plenty of young children in Estonia whose health and development they do not have an overview of. The Centre Party's proposal was to link receiving parental benefit to how the parent cares for the health of his or her child. Proper parents will do so anyway, and there would be no additional burden on them, but this measure would also help to care for the health of children whose parents may not do so. As a result, we have four questions for Minister Kruus that I am not going to read in terms of time savings. I believe the Minister will read them and give the answers. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U77	Thank you. The question must be answered by Minister Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U78	Honourable Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I'm going to the questions right now. The first question: 'The Health Board has proposed, as one of the possible solutions for ensuring the health surveillance of young children, that the newborn be automatically registered on the list of family doctors to which the mother of the child belonged. Are you in favour of the Health Board's idea and consider that it will solve the problems associated with the health surveillance of young children? ' I consider it most important to do so in a timely manner with regard to newborn health surveillance, which requires the flow of information between health care institutions and family doctors. According to § 8 (3) of the Health Services Management Act, every Estonian citizen and an alien staying in Estonia on the basis of a residence permit has the right to choose a family doctor. According to subsection 43 of the same section, the Health Board can also assign a non-registered person to the list of family doctors. Under these provisions, newborns and infants are also designated as family doctors. At present, the will of newborn parents is important for entering a family doctor's list. The current system therefore requires parental initiative or intervention by the Health Board. Most parents choose their own family doctor, often the parent's own family doctor. There is a possibility that the mother will be able to choose a family doctor for her newborn child at the maternity home. We support the solution to ensure that information is quickly transferred through the health information system from the maternity home to the family doctor's desk, and we are working towards this application. However, the early detection of problems and, if necessary, intervention are more important than legislative changes and technical possibilities. The primary objective of the health check carried out by a family nurse and a family doctor is to advise and support the child's family, to spot bottlenecks and to respond appropriately to them, apart from the assessment of the medical condition. The second question: 'How do you think it is possible to ensure effective supervision and effective intervention in health matters concerning young children within the current system? ' Last year, the Health Board actively cooperated with parents who had not chosen a family doctor for their newborn child, sought a family doctor for the newborn and then assigned him to the appropriate list. In this case, however, the baby's first medical examination may take place a little later if we want it in the ideal picture. Problems arise especially when parents do not choose their child's family doctor for lack of knowledge or neglect. In clearly problematic cases, intervention is already taking place in the maternity department and the hospital's social worker contacts the social worker of the municipality of residence, who takes the case under observation and cooperates with the family doctor. According to the Code of Conduct, the family doctor is obliged to regularly check the health of children and, where necessary, cooperate with a social worker, i.e. to inform the social worker of the concerns of the local government. In order to ensure the well-being of children, it is important to meet the needs of the young child as well as to guide and instruct parents. The third question: 'The Estonian Association of Family Doctors has also proposed the idea that only parents who regularly go to medical check-ups with the child receive public and local support. Do you support the linking of local and national benefits with a child's medical examination? " Family doctor visits with children should be encouraged by various measures in order to prevent or detect early child health problems, depending on the neglect of the child, and, where appropriate, to inform the social or child protection worker of the local government. The linking of support to medical examinations would be primarily a motivating measure, but the lack of support would, unfortunately, be an ex post punishment. We therefore believe that, before adopting sanctionive measures, other options, rather proactive and supportive, should be considered. It must also be borne in mind that if the family is already struggling to cope, the suspension of family benefits and benefits will certainly make the situation of the child worse. I think that the aim of the country should be to help the family raise and care for the child by means of positive measures, not to put pressure on punishment. Question 4: "What measures are you planning to develop and implement in the Ministry of Social Affairs to ensure that every young child has a timely health check? Could the parental benefit proposed by the Centre Party Group be linked to the child's medical examination as one of the possible measures? ' I think that the most important thing for further upgrading of the current system is for family doctors to get as operational information as possible about all newborns. They would then be able to carry out their tasks to the maximum extent necessary to protect the health of the child, including, where appropriate, working with the child welfare officer of local authorities. The issue of child health surveillance is, in any case, very important, but it should be seen as part of a wider "early intervention" system for children's well-being. The purpose of the new Child Protection Act, which is currently in the coordination circle, is precisely to protect children's interests. Important emphasis has also been placed on risk prevention, early intervention, helping children in need as quickly and effectively as possible, supporting the local government's child protection work and cross-sectoral child protection work. We know that child welfare workers are not in all municipalities, and this work is relatively uneven. The Ministry of Social Affairs is also currently preparing a Green Paper on family benefits and services and the concept of mental health and early intervention of children. All of this together should improve precisely the area that the good heirs have touched upon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U79	There are questions for the Minister. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U80	Thank you, Minister. You mentioned that in Estonia, getting a child on the family doctor list depends on his parent's declaration of will. If this application is not received from the parent, the Health Board will start operating sometime and contact the local social worker. In your reply, you also mentioned that in this case, unfortunately, having a child is in the care of a doctor. How long will it take? When does the Health Board discover that the child is not on the family doctor's list, and how old does the child end up with a doctor after the birth home for the first time?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U81	Thank you, good questioner! If we look at how many times the Health Board has intervened in this process, it can be said that about a hundred times. The average time is very difficult to say because it has always been an individual. But when a child's residence is determined by the mother in the maternity home, it actually means that at one point the Health Board will compare the records and check whether the child is on the family doctor's list. If not, the process of dealing with the family will begin immediately to appoint a family doctor for the child.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U82	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U83	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. It seems to me that there are two sides to this big game: one side is the local authorities, the other is the Health Board. Perhaps it would be better if there was a master to deal with this problem. You'd know who to ask, either from a local social worker or from a family doctor's association.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U84	Thank you, good questioner! If we look at the Estonian social welfare system as a whole, we must admit that effective, efficient and purposeful social welfare involves cooperation between different institutions. This means that we cannot and must not exclude local authorities and the state must also participate in cooperation. As we can see from these cases, they have been intervened in several ways as a result of comments. Cases are not always the same type, sometimes there has been some observation at the maternity home and an informed social officer, etc. Secondly, we must also take into account the fact that in many cases, and these events are not so few parents want another family doctor as they themselves have. This may partly be due to the fact that a family doctor has a paediatric background. The freedom to choose a family doctor must certainly be a citizen, even when he or she does these activities for his or her minor child.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U85	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U86	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! In Finland, for example, birth grant and universal child benefit relate to pre-natal child control. Do you think it's rational, is it good, or is it a restriction of freedom?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U87	Thank you, Reverend Asker! I certainly agree that we must all worry about children who cannot take care of themselves. The laws of one country or another are indeed influenced, on the one hand, by the practice and experience of the world, but above all, they must be based on an agreement between the community of a particular country, its people. And if there is discussion at the level of the legislator, there will be agreement on which model to apply specifically in the Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U88	Thank you, Minister. No further questions, you may leave the remote. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish to negotiate. This item has been exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U89	Next is an inquiry to the State Assembly members Kadri Simson, Yana Toomi, Mailis Reps, Tarmo Tamme, Priit Toobali and Lauri Laas on 14 April to the Health Check for Young Children (No 399) presented to Minister of Social Affairs Helmen Küt. Kadri Simson will speak on behalf of the heirs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U90	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, This question, too, concerns young children who have been left without the supervision of a family doctor. This question has also been submitted to Minister of Social Affairs Helmen Kütt because, two months ago, when this topic was discussed in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, Helmen Kütt was one of the few members of the Riigikogu (together there were 33), who supported the proposal of the Centre Party Group to link parental support with the health check of a child. This proposal is not a bicycle invention. In Europe and in many other parts of the world, child benefit is linked to the medical control of a newborn child. For example, in France, a newborn child is required to be medically checked in the first week after it was born, followed by a check-up at the ninth week of life and also at the age of two years. Once these visits have been completed, the certificate provided on the basis of the check also allows for child benefit. There are similar conditional child benefits in many other places, such as Germany. So we know that two months ago, Helmen Küttt supported this proposal by voting from the opposition bench. It is now up to the Minister to support this proposal. That is why the inquiry was made, and I am already grateful for the answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U91	The Social Minister Helmen Kütt answers his inquiry.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U92	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu, first of all, I thank you very much for this questioning. I think that the issue of the health of children, including young children, must be said a lot and all the time, because the problem is serious. That's why I'm going to read the questions again. Since we had been asked exactly the same questions, I would like to apologise in advance for the fact that some of the answers are similar, but I will certainly add such a social view to what Mr Urmas Kruuse, Minister for Health and Labour, has said. The first question: 'The Health Board has proposed, as one of the possible solutions for ensuring the health surveillance of young children, that the newborn be automatically registered on the list of family doctors to which the mother of the child belonged. Are you in favour of the Health Board's idea and consider that it will solve the problems associated with the health surveillance of young children? ' As my good colleague mentioned earlier, the current system really requires that newborn parents make a statement to include a child on the list of family doctors. It was also said that there is a solution for the mother to choose a family doctor for her newborn child at the maternity home. In fact, we very much support the solution that the information is moving quickly from the maternity centre to the family doctor through the health information system and from there to implementation. I would also like to touch on the subject that the Social Affairs Committee was presented just when the Central Party Group initiated an amendment to the law, as of 30 January 2014, to the explanatory memorandum. It also states that one option would be to introduce, in the same way as in another country, a requirement that the parent cannot leave the maternity home before the birth, a certificate on the basis of which he or she is born to register and apply for benefits, if information on the child's family doctor is available. Often, before the birth of the child, there is also information on the presence of the child in the risk group and the possibility of receiving advice from the hospital's social worker, as well as contact the local social worker if necessary. If a family doctor has information about children on his list, he or she will be able to react at other times even before he or she has reached a medical checkup. So, when we develop this new regime, we will definitely move to the point where this information is available. More important than amending laws and technical possibilities is precisely this early intervention and noticing that no child will be overlooked and will receive help until the situation has turned bad. The second question: 'How do you think it is possible to ensure effective supervision and effective intervention in health matters concerning young children within the current system? " Indeed, more than a hundred times the Health Service has had to intervene and seek out parents who have not registered their child on time. As the information has therefore not reached the general practitioner, the requirements resulting from the Health Check Guide for children up to 18 years of age have not been met, which must be done in the first week of the second week, which studies and checks this 2009 guide is quite extensive and comprehensive. At the moment, if parents do not choose a family doctor, either ignorance or neglect, then the social worker and maternity department of the hospital must also share information with the social worker of the municipality. In a small municipality, this is not really a problem. I would very much like to congratulate those municipalities who have linked the payment of birth grant, for example, to certain conditions, including visits to doctors. There are such municipalities in Estonia, such as Tallinn and many others. Monitoring the mother during pregnancy is also in the interest of the health of the infant and the municipality can contribute to this even before the child is born. The third question: 'The Estonian Association of Family Doctors has also proposed the idea that only parents who regularly go to medical check-ups with the child receive public and local support. Do you support the linking of local and national benefits with a child's medical examination? " Indeed, various measures have been proposed here and it has been found that the existence of a family doctor is an extremely important link for better children's health and for better families, helping to detect children's health problems early and prevent illness. However, if the support is strictly linked to it, it often remains only a punitive measure. However, I can say that we are currently developing a Child Protection Act, which will certainly take into account both the Green Paper on family benefits and services and the concept of early intervention, which will be completed in the fourth quarter of 2015. The aim is to analyse the possibilities of health care systems and, for example, family nurses' home visits to support families with children. In my opinion, the Central Party's proposal deserves very serious consideration and analysis here. Personally, I think that this is one of the ways in which children and their health can be monitored from an early age. I very much hope that all these options and opportunities will be considered seriously in the concept of mental health and early intervention, which, as has been said, will be completed in the fourth quarter of 2015. In fact, this is part of the answer to the fourth question whether linking parental benefits offered by the Centre Party Group to the child's medical examination could be a measure. The question is simply whether parental benefit, which certainly motivates parents from financial considerations, is best suited to the nature and purpose of the measure in question. The purpose of parental benefit is to support the reconciliation of parents' work and family life, which is why the link proposed is not quite consistent with the purpose of the benefit, but I think that this would be conceivable as one option. So this proposal will certainly be analysed and, as Minister for Social Affairs, I will support these analyses in order to clarify what would be the best solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U93	Questions for the Minister of Social Affairs. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U94	Thank you, Mr President. Since the questioning is the same as the previous one, and as the Minister said, the answers are the same, I think it is absolutely justified to ask the Minister the same question that I put to the Minister. The question of support for Finns in relation to pre-natal control of children. How do you feel about whether they are closer to socialism than we are and whether we, under your wise leadership, are moving in that direction, or whether we are moving, in our great desire for freedom, to where everyone's business is, to live, to die?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U95	Thank you, good questioner! My answers and those of the previous speaker were quite the same, not identical in the sense that I expanded them on the social side. I have to say that I like the Finnish model, but I personally like it. Should the Estonian state take over the same model? There are a lot of other grants and systems in Finland that are different from ours, so this is the place of consideration and analysis. But in many ways we take the example of other countries, why not also analyse this solution and base it on an opportunity. As has been said, the concept must be completed by the fourth quarter of 2015. In any case, this proposal deserves serious consideration.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U96	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U97	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. You commented on the Centre Party's proposal to link parental allowance to the child health check in two different ways. The first time you called it punishment is that careless parents are losing money. The second time, in your last reply, you said that it would be a motivating package to motivate careless parents to see a doctor with their child, because then there will be support. I myself feel that the city of Tallinn, which has linked the visit to the doctor with birth grant, has certainly meant this as an motivating measure. Tallinn's assistant mayor is a professional pediatrician and certainly does not want to disadvantage young children by punishing them. The question to be specified: which one, according to your understanding, is this clearly punishment or, in cooperation with social workers, would rather motivate careless parents to go to a doctor?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U98	Thank you for your question. I meant, by punishment, that if support is lost, that means that the family is in a difficult financial situation in one period, that means that there may not be food on the table either. As regards the linking of the payment of support to certain conditions, including cooperation with social workers, helping parents to understand the idea of such a thing and to inform them, it is undoubtedly worth discussing. By punishment, I meant, above all, that if the support wasn't granted, there could be an empty stomach in the house.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U99	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U100	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. The linking of our parental benefit to the child's medical examination requires your analysis and I understand that this analysis will only be completed in the fourth quarter of 2015. What are you analyzing for so long, what's the problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U101	Thank you for your question. The answer is that a Green Paper on family benefits and services is currently being drafted in the Ministry of Social Affairs, which will be completed in the third quarter of 2014. However, the concept of mental health of children and early intervention, due in the fourth quarter of 2015, is still under preparation. These things are in the process, they've been dealt with before I took office. Believe me, however, many decisions need to be analysed and given to them, let's say, an academic or scientific basis. However, an analysis is needed before decisions are taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U102	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U103	Thank you. Madam Minister! You said the Central Party proposal was only one option. I would like to know what else we can offer so that our parents do not forget to take their children to medical examinations.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U104	These options have also been introduced. Municipalities have put forward some ideas relating, for example, to a common database. Specifically in Viljandi city, it was called Villast, or "The Child of Viljandi," which included family doctors, social workers as well as police officers, because it was also intended for older children. Every move that was made there was to see those who had the right to access that database. However, such a system can only be implemented if the parent gives his or her written consent, and parents often did not give that consent. So I must say, sadly, that this system did not justify itself in Viljandi. We made a lot of contributions because we had also seen that children's concerns often reach family doctors when it is too late through social workers. So there are different options to discuss, and one option would still be a common database.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U105	No further questions. Thank you, Minister of Social Affairs Helmen Küttt! I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish to negotiate. This enquiry has been dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U106	The next item is the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Yana Toomi, Eldar Efendiev, Valeri Korb, Urbo Vaarmanni, Viktor Vassilyev and Vladimir Velman on 23 April 2014 for the financial support from the Ministry of Social Affairs for the guide material "Child welfare assessment tool for child protection worker" (No 403). Please introduce Viktor Vassilyev.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U107	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, We have, yes, submitted to the Minister for Social Affairs an inquiry into the "Child Welfare Helpdesk for Child Protection Workers," commissioned by the Ministry of Social Affairs from the NGO Family and Children's Advisory Centre, and the issue of which was supported by EUR 25000. But independent experts say that this guide is no good at all. It is said that there are wrong scales and wrong questionnaires, that copyright has been violated, that the rules of psychometry and diagnostic assessment, ethical standards and practices have been violated, so claim by independent experts. Furthermore, the contract terms have been ignored as regards the financing of the operation, the content and volume of the guidance material and the activities of the monitoring procedure. We have asked the Minister for Social Affairs four questions, which are quite simple and also very simple. The first question: if 200 copies were to be printed but no prints were available, the material would only be available online, if training was organised in a smaller scale than was agreed, and if the costs of the project did not correspond to what was agreed, would the contract have been broken or had not been breached? That's a simple question. The second question is that the Ministry of Social Affairs decided to carry out an audit of the activities of this NGO in greater depth. The audit was to be completed in the first quarter of 2014. The first quarter is over, but we haven't heard anything, so we'd like to know the results of the audit carried out. Question three. Independent experts say that there are substantive shortcomings and unprofessionalism in the work that this guidance material is not suitable for use. Our question is, what about this guidance material? It's done, the money's paid more than it should have. Will this guide be used faulty as it is, or what about it? Question four. If the previous three questions are answered that the NGO still did not do its job the way it was supposed to do, will there be some sanctions from the Ministry of Social Affairs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U108	The inquiry has been submitted to Minister of Social Affairs Helmen Hunt. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U109	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen of the Riigikogu, thank you for your questioning. This question has come to the attention of the Ministry of Social Affairs on several occasions: on 17 May 2013, 26 June 2013, 2 September 2013 and, lastly, on 25 April 2014, this is what I will now answer. I have to say that when I started working at the Ministry of Social Affairs, I really took an interest in this question because I have heard different answers from different ministers in the Chamber of Riigikogu. I will now give you an overview of what has been done and what is to come. I personally met Marika Ratnik, who is one of the project applicants for the Family and Children's Advisory Centre and also the contractor of the project. I also met with the audit department, where we have a new person at work, and I asked to be kept up - to - date. Now the answers. It is true that during the contract period of the Ministry of Social Affairs, NGO Family and Children's Advisory Centre has informed of the fact that the volume of the guide material or manual will change, and assuming that the material needs to be improved in the future, printing will be abandoned. For the sake of the Steinogram, this allocation was made in 2012. According to the Family and Children's Advisory Centre, the changes in the scope of the handbook were related to the following topics: the value base of child protection work and general principles of trends and attitudes as a framework for child protection work, how to deal with the role conflicts (child protection worker as family supporter versus family take-off), the child protection worker person, the motivation for seeking help in which and in which situation. In particular, this was due to sectoral changes and no qualified specialists were found to write certain parts. The fact that the amendments were not correctly fixed or the application was contractually modified is the failure of the Ministry of Social Affairs and is certainly a mistake. According to the Family and Children's Advisory Centre, the change in the time and number of participants in the organisation of the training was due to the fact that fewer child protection workers could participate in the training than expected. However, according to their explanation, such a higher number of judges and other judicial staff participated in the training. The Internal Audit Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs carried out an extraordinary audit of the use of "Specialists at NGO Family and Children's Advisory Centre'. As a result of the audit activities, the auditor concluded that the projects were in conformity with the contracts and most of the activities had been carried out in good time, but also pointed out that the changes requested by the contractor were verbally and were not properly contracted. The audit also highlighted shortcomings in the ministry's activities: improvements need to be made in the performance of contracts. The Ministry has begun to draw up a plan of measures to correct all these weaknesses so that no Minister for Social Affairs or those who need the result of this work should be in such a position. As has been said, since the amendments to the contract were not fixed, this has also been identified as a defect in the audit. The auditor has actually submitted an audit project and it has not yet been presented to the management or the Agency, to the Child Protection Department, which can write down its objections or explanations. The current situation is that the Office has written down its objections. Next week, this project should be presented to the management. I read these materials in connection with an inquiry so I could answer you. The third question is that independent experts have drawn attention to the substantive shortcomings of the guidance material and consider it unprofessional. I would like to make it clear that the Ministry of Social Affairs certainly did not order this work from the NGO Advisory Centre for Families and Children, but the provision, which was EUR 25000, was an operating grant. The guide for assessing the well-being of the child and the handbook for child protection workers have been drawn up and are actually recommended rather than mandatory tools. In addition, it should be made clear that the criticism of universities has been particularly relevant to the guide to assessing the well-being of the child, not to the handbook. There have been no complaints about the manual, but there have been no complaints about the welfare guidelines. I would also like to add immediately that it cannot be said that the Ministry of Social Affairs, for its part, recommends this guide to child protection workers, which is free to use. We do not really have any tools for dealing with specific cases for child protection workers. When someone uses this guide, it does nothing to harm children, but, as has been said before, it is certainly not the kind of evaluation guide that would be mandatory, it is one option. The guide is on the website of the Family and Children's Advisory Centre and I know the municipalities who use it and have received help. We have concluded, both on the basis of the audit and on the basis of this material, that the allocation must be carried out by checking the quality and, if necessary, recovering the funds on the basis of expert opinions. In answer to the last question, once we have examined all the points in the house and approved the audit, we will be able to comment on whether and what sanctions we intend to impose against the Family and Children Advisory Centre. What I can say is that the allocation of money must be very clear and transparent, understandable and unambiguous, the contractual partners must fix the interim agreements and, if necessary, revise the amounts. If something is done less, then the money will be spent less. The audit has made provision as a broader issue so that such situations do not arise in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U110	Questions for the Minister. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U111	Thank you. Madam Minister! I still didn't get it for good. You spoke of the fact that the agreement was not properly formalised, and afterwards you said that EUR 25000 was a subsidy. That's when it comes to who the Ministry has made such beautiful subsidies in recent years.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U112	Thank you for your question. I told you it was orally agreed that this material would not be printed, it would be available as a PDF file. Unfortunately, this was not in the form of a contract. The financial allocation agreement was, of course, drawn up at EUR 25000, but the interim changes concerning the fact that the material did not come in print were agreed with the Department of Children and Families of the Ministry of Social Affairs. They were not written and the audit drew attention to this, that is true.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U113	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U114	Thank you, Mr President. Good madam minister! Listening to your answer, it sounded like it was like it wasn't and it wasn't like it was ready, but it wasn't exactly the way it was supposed to be. As regards the performance of the contract, it was agreed that the contract would not be executed. So the only thing that's clear is that it's pretty confusing. Unfortunately, it has also happened in earlier times that the Ministry of Social Affairs is ordering or asking for a contract fee or a grant or a provision for some guidance material, an idea solution, whatever, and then the new clothes of the king will be shown again. If your tailor had done the same job to you, we should have seen our hearing broadcast after midnight. Now there are two ministers in the Ministry of Social Affairs. Are you going to do something to make sure that good ministerial officials don't get caught up next time in a stupid situation where they'll be shown the King's new clothes?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U115	Thank you for your question. After all, this audit has also been carried out to review the entire allocation system and to avoid such situations on the basis of the results. What has ever been done before is very difficult for me to comment on. I can only rely on an auditor's report, which will be published on the website of the Ministry of Social Affairs once approved. As I said at the beginning, money must be very correct, precise, transparent and also academically competent. That is what the Internal Audit Department is very active in managing Mrs Pungas. Unfortunately, the previous auditor who started the audit has resigned. I also wanted to meet him and talk to hear what comments he had or what he had to say. So I can take action to avoid future situations where it is embarrassing to answer the questioners and perhaps embarrassing for the officials as well. Unfortunately, I have nothing to add here but the fact that some work was done for the allocation made in 2012, certain materials are really available as a PDF file. Can't say nothing's been done. Nor can it be said that these materials have not been used; child protection workers have benefited from them in case-by-case solutions. However, they have certainly not been carried out as foreseen in the agreement for the allocation of EUR 25000. All intermediate changes agreed orally have not been fixed and this is an error which has also been highlighted in the audit. Surely I am not in front of you for the last time with this same audit. I think it's important to clear things up.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U116	Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U117	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I learned from your answers that this organisation received an operating grant of EUR 25000, for which it was not ordered to have a guide on the child's well-being. What activity was to be carried out by the organisation in 2012 with which it competed for this support and are there organisations which, as a result of this allocation, decreased in 2012?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U118	Thank you. These are exactly the same questions I will put to the auditee and I hope that if we get approved next week on the audit board, they will receive an answer. As you said, EUR 25000 is a very large sum for which the organisation contributed to child welfare work, but it was not exactly what had been agreed upon when this support was granted. That is why it is important that these questions be answered. I think that in the near future I will come to introduce you to this audit, or you can get acquainted with it on the website of the Ministry of Social Affairs, and if there are any more questions, I will come back to answer. In any case, thank you for your questioning! I have sat in the Chamber and heard various ministers reply on this subject. The questions have been different. I also know that Marika Ratnik has contacted Mrs. Yana Toom, who must have sent her an e-mail first. Marika Ratnik is ready to come to the Centre Party Group to answer all the questions as a workman. It is very difficult for me here today to comment more. But when the audit is complete and the position of the agency is known, I think we'll definitely get into the house of clarity.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U119	Thank you, Minister. No further questions. Nevertheless, I ask whether we are opening negotiations. Would anyone like to take the floor? No, I don't. The sixth inquiry has been dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U120	The time has come to signal with a hammer strike that it is possible to register for a free microphone to speak. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U121	I'm going to spend a few minutes answering to Secretary of Finance Jürgen Ligi, who's been shooting a considerable amount of bile and spit at me in the last few days. The Minister of Finance is convinced that it was very appropriate and proper for Estonia to play its part in the European Stability Mechanism and thus help the Greek economy with the guarantee. Recalling when the Greek issue has been up at all in recent days, it was in the opinion of the Minister for Finance, where he mentioned, more or less, that he personally helped Greece back on its feet. Unfortunately, that is not the case. Even the most conservative estimates show that our commitments to the European Stability Mechanism are EUR 1.3 billion in loan guarantees, which is EUR 1000 per person in Estonia. In the case of the stability mechanism, Estonia will remain responsible for Greece's welfare for decades to come. Minister Ligi is offended by the fact that I do not understand Estonia's commitments to the solidarity package. Indeed, the Centre Party was the only party that did not support Estonia's participation in the ESM. But it was also discussed at the Supreme Court, where 19 of the Supreme Courts 9 believed that decisions that were so overwhelming should not be taken by a majority of the Riigikogu to Estonia's government today, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. Secondly, he is offended because I am talking about the idea of a single European minimum pension, which also needs solidarity in Europe. Only that a single European minimum pension should cover those countries that have complied with all the rules that credit countries have not complied with. They've been ignoring the rules. At the same time, Estonia and the other new countries of the European Union have complied with the rules, and their trained and trained workers have used the opportunity offered by the European Union to move freely, which in turn has left us and the other new Member States with a social burden beyond their control in the future. The debate is therefore that Europe should also be able to transfer a certain part of its central budget from minimum social support or from a minimum pension, in any way appropriate and in no way associated with the debate on how to keep up the financial system of the countries that have borrowed themselves. I also think that the Minister of Finance can always say that the aim is to cut taxes and raise taxes, but it is certainly in the interests of the country and the people that the general well-being of the European Union should also reach here, and it should not be sought in countries where taxes have not been raised so much or so much cuts have been made. So in the future, it would probably be more appropriate if such debates were to take place face-to-face rather than in the form of abusive speech in absentia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-19_U122	All the speakers have spoken, the hearing is closed. Thank you. Closure of the sitting at 5 p.m.
