ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-08_U1	Hello, power! Have a nice work week. We will begin the 11th working week of the VIIIth plenary session. Despite everything, it is still possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. Representative of the Government of the Republic Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-08_U2	Mr President of the Riigikogu! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching four draft laws today. First, the draft law amending the law on the protection of ambient air, the Riigikogu represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law, Mati Raidma; second, the measure law, the Act amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity, and the Act amending the Law on state fees, the Riigikogu represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law Urve Palo; third, the draft law amending the Law on health insurance, the Riigikogu represents the Government of the Republic Urmas Kruuse, the Minister of Health and Labour; fourthly, the draft law on the ratification of the Treaty on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion between the Grand Duchy of Estonia and Luxembourg. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Maris Lauri. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-08_U3	No more wishes. I have adopted four drafts, which we do according to the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 85 members of the Riigikogu are present, 16 are missing. Now the agenda. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the agenda for the 11th working week of the VIIIth plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. There are 82 members of the Riigikogu in favour of approving the agenda, no respondents or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-08_U4	Today there is an inquiry on the agenda, submitted by the members of the Riigikogu Urbo Vaarmann, Tarmo Tamm, Valeri Korb, Priit Toobal, Marika Tuus-Laul and Lauri Laasi. On behalf of the heirs, Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-08_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We were prompted to make this inquiry a few months ago by the fact that the Health Insurance Fund and the Ministry of Social Affairs, including the Minister of Health and Labour Urmas Kruuse, came forward with information that since 2016 a referral from the family doctor was required to visit all specialised doctors. For many doctors, this is not needed at the moment, for example, a referral letter from a family doctor or a pulmonary doctor, as well as a psychiatrist, a doctor with skin and sexually transmitted diseases, a gynaecologist, an ophthalmologist, etc. We are amazed that this is called improving the availability of specialist medical care. Let's put the filter in front of it and make it easier to access? Family doctors have also spoken about this. They feel that these specializations cannot be taken as a single set; all these health problems must still be analysed separately. The Women's Doctors' Association is of the opinion that, as long as family doctors do not have the appropriate office, equipment and, of course, preparation, this should not be done under any circumstances. Many doctors have pointed out that this change can only make a family physician a mere delivery letter, and it will prove rather burdensome. In this regard, we have a number of questions for the Minister, who is also the chairman of the Health Insurance Board. We ask basically how adding such a connection can help to shorten the doctor's queues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-08_U6	The inquiry is answered by Minister Urmas Kruuse. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-08_U7	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Good guests! Indeed, I have been asked four questions. I am going to read the questions here, because the good inquisitor described their background. The first question: 'The change planned at the Health Insurance Fund affects the Estonian family doctors in particular. What are the results of the current analyses on how much additional training and resources are needed by family doctors in the near future? The document 'Estonian Health Developments until 2020' also sets out the main lines of action for the development of primary health care. One objective is to strengthen the role of family doctors as coordinators and gatekeepers and to develop monitoring of people with chronic diseases at family doctors. The same objectives have been set in the development plan for the field of family medicine until 2020. The work plan of the Health Insurance Fund provides for an analysis during 2015 in cooperation with family doctors and professionals, to what extent, and if at all, the introduction of a referral requirement in so-called "no referral" medical professions would contribute to a faster resolution of the health concerns of the person who visits the doctor. The purpose of introducing the letter of intent is for the family doctor to provide faster assistance to people whose health problems are easier. As a result, those in urgent need of specialist care should be able to get to them more quickly. The availability of family doctor services in Estonia is good and people's satisfaction with the family doctor system is high. In the light of the further development of the system, it is appropriate to discuss which health problems the family doctor could provide even more expert and faster assistance to people. The family doctor is competent to diagnose and prescribe treatment for a large number of diseases. The need for intervention by a specialist should be decided by a qualified specialist. Family doctors are obliged to complete and train themselves professionally, as do all other medical professions. The training component is part of the financing model for family doctors. Specific training needs will be agreed between professional contacts and family doctors. We will certainly take into account the feedback received from family doctors as a result of this analysis. But, of course, first of all, professional contacts need to be coordinated, which, in their opinion, a family doctor can deal with health problems at the first level and which problems require further direction. Question 2: 'Many doctors have stressed that a planned change can only turn a family physician into a mere messenger. This, in turn, would put a further burden on the health care system. For example, it concerns the reception of a gynecologist, where regular checks are important. Are you in favour of making a referral mandatory for all specialised doctors and consider that family doctors must be prepared to carry out gynaecological examinations, for example, in the form of both knowledge and equipment? ' The purpose of the extension of the letter is to strengthen the role of the gatekeeper of the family physician. Of course, it is not enough that we have already expanded the family doctor's team with another extra sister. In health centres, a midwife, a domestic nurse, and a physical therapist are added to the team. With the support of an extended family doctor's team, the family doctor will be able to do more substantive work and to deal with the problems that require the doctor's competence. It is also a question of the professionalism of a doctor, but he must not reduce himself to the issue of a referral letter, but he must essentially go into the patient's problems. Indeed, we are considering introducing a referral requirement for all professions. We understand that this is not a change that can be implemented in full immediately. However, given the development of primary care, the fact that the team will also include a midwife, whose competence includes not only the monitoring of pregnancy but also the taking of simpler analyses, reproductive health advice and the issuing of certain prescriptions, it will be appropriate in the future. Also today, about 10% of family doctors provide partial gynaecologist services. The necessary resources are available to family doctors providing this service and, of course, it can also be financed. Question 3: 'Estonian doctors have discussed the need to introduce a 'pre-shipment letter'. This means that the family doctor sends a letter of referral to a specialist who reads it and gives an initial assessment (whether the patient has to go to a specialist at all, if there is an urgent case of treatment, etc.). Introducing a pre-arranged letter would prevent the patient from running during the weather. What do you think about the idea of introducing a letter of intent, and have you discussed it in the Health Insurance Board? ' A pre-arrangement letter is likely to refer to the pre-consultation service added to the list of health services of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund in 2013. The family doctor may refer the patient to a specialist by e-mail or by means of a paper referral. If a patient with a letter of referral always visits a specialist, the patient with an e-mail message may go to a specialist or first review the information contained in the e-mail letter and decide whether an e-consultation or an e-visit is necessary. An e-consultation is a service when the specialist digitally sends recommendations to the family doctor about the patient's further monitoring or treatment. E-visit means that the specialist decides on the basis of an e-mail that the patient needs a specialist appointment. On the basis of the information contained in the referral, the specialist will also decide how quickly the patient needs help, and then the appointment of the specialist will be agreed. Basically, thanks to the e-consultation, the patient does not have to move between doctors several times, and the necessary decisions will be agreed in advance between the specialist and the family doctor. It is also explained that the purpose of the development of an e-mail message is that in the future all referrals to a specialist should take place on the basis of an e-mail. The fourth question: 'What is your position as a minister, whether making a referral mandatory for each specialist, will a long waiting list of specialist visits be resolved and all patients will be guaranteed access to a specialist doctor within the maximum length of the treatment order (e.g. six weeks in the case of outpatient specialist medical care)? " Shortening the order of treatment is one of the health objectives. According to the development plan of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund until 2018, it is important to find solutions to reduce waiting times in all health care establishments and in individual professions. There is certainly no simple solution to a problem as complex as long waiting lists. Strengthening primary care is a step towards shortening the order of treatment. As has already been said, the introduction of a referral requirement will make the service more accessible to patients who necessarily need specialist medical care. The Health Insurance Fund has also implemented a measure since this year 2014 that the new contracts for the financing of medical treatment require the health care provider to ensure the provision of the service within the prescribed time limits and to give the insured persons the opportunity to register for at least four months. The Estonian Health Insurance Fund also monitors compliance with this requirement for its contractual partners. Ensuring the availability of optimal healthcare also requires changes in hospital work organisation, including the promotion of outpatient and day care and the promotion of a comprehensive patient treatment. The Ministry of Social Affairs has discussed the introduction of a referral letter in cooperation with the Estonian Association of Family Doctors and the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, but there is no reason yet to talk about specific steps, the possibilities are still being analysed. We certainly want to emphasise that, before making any concrete changes, these issues will be discussed on issues concerning all parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-08_U8	Questions for the Minister. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-08_U9	Thank you. Honourable Mr. Kruuse! We still ask how these queues decrease when we put another relationship between a patient and a specialist in the form of a family doctor. In my opinion, it only prolongs the time to reach the cure and runs more people. Family doctors themselves do not agree so much with this change. They think that the connection they put there is basically just a referral letter, not helping people to get to a specialist faster.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-08_U10	Honourable questioner! eHealth is a comprehensive objective, on the one hand, to shorten queues and, on the other hand, to provide right and fair medical care. If we look at the current system and we also look at the e-consultation when using e-mails, we can hope that this should reduce people's running. I have already explained that in my reply. If a specialist and a family doctor agree that the patient does not have to go to a specialist when they are diagnosed, then the entire treatment will start faster, and the visit to a specialist will be canceled. This is also one way to shorten the treatment sequence. In the autumn before school, a parent wrote how difficult it was to get to an ophthalmologist - a child has to go to school, but there is too long line for an ophthalmologist - the school starts first. But the same service he wanted from the ophthalmologist, he could have gotten from the family doctor, and pretty quickly. Increasing the role of family doctor as a goalkeeper is certainly one of the strategic goals. However, I also pointed out in my reply that innovation does not mean that from next year all so-called non-communicable specialties will necessarily be broadcast specialties. However, this certainly contributes to shortening the order of specialized medical care. However, the family doctor's team will be increased by a midwife, a physical therapist, and an additional nurse, as his work will certainly increase.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-08_U11	Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-08_U12	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I might ask you a little speculatively. We're talking about shortening the queues. Can't you solve one problem like this? If a high-paid entrepreneur receives, for example, EUR 5 000 per month remains on the disability page, the sickness fund will pay him a large amount of compensation as of the ninth day. He or she will not be available to see a specialist until after three or four months. Couldn't it be that he would pay for a quick visit to a specialist himself, receive help soon, and by the date when the time for him to go to a specialist according to official procedures, the state would compensate him for his expenses? Overall, the state will win tens of thousands of euros.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-08_U13	Good questioner! This is the subject that the Health Insurance Board is currently dealing with. A separate working group on the so-called compensation system has been set up to discuss additional services to reduce the order of specialised medical care. At the same time, we have to admit that practice has been such that, if a family doctor considers that someone needs a very rapid intervention by a specialist, it is generally possible to agree among themselves that a person can receive a specialist doctor more quickly. But in any case, we want to offer additional opportunities for specialist doctors. These have been very serious discussions. All social partners are represented in the working group, whose aim, among other things, is to prevent the system from becoming excessively burdensome to the health insurance fund, so that it cannot be financed anymore. It is important that all parties benefit.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-08_U14	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-08_U15	Honourable performer! In my opinion, the discussions that have taken place in recent years have only led to the constant growth of medical queues. When comparing statistics for a few years, we see that the queues have grown longer and longer. I mean, bigger cities. Now you want to make a new arrangement, but I think it's an extra filter that prevents people from seeing a doctor. They either give up trying or go and buy themselves a pay-per-view medical care number for a lot of money. In my opinion, all of Estonia's medical care will go over with the fact that, in the end, we will have mainly paid visits to specialist doctors. Overrule my claims, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-08_U16	Good questioner! Personally, during my term of office, I have not read from any memos that Estonia wants to give up the principle of solidarity in health insurance and go more than one hundred percent to paid treatment. When we look at the queues, you quite rightly pointed out that certain major hospitals have extended their queues in certain disciplines. This means that people want to go to the Centre of Excellence to see a doctor; these doctors are more trusted. In order to alleviate this problem, both the Health Insurance Fund and the Health Care Round Table will seek to draw up a logistical map from the so-called population of specialist doctors in order to establish where they should be located. The aim is to ensure that a doctor can be contacted as quickly as possible in view of the number of cases. Care must be taken when it is reasonable to move patients and when it is reasonable to move doctors. Within the framework of some cooperation, doctors at the centres still go to smaller hospitals, which offer specialist care of the highest quality. One additional measure is that we want to implement the digital registration system across the country. If a patient wants to go to a specialist right now, he has several options. Ideally, you can register for all the visits of doctors from all over Estonia in the same specialty. What's the Health Insurance Fund doing with the statistics? He makes sure there's a long line in all the hospitals. This system needs to be changed. This means that if you want to choose the quickest or most appropriate way to get to a doctor, you should know in real time where the long line is. And you can register with only one specialist. Such a system shall ensure that the queues are not overwritten four or five times. This is extremely important in order to guarantee a uniform access to specialist medical care.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-08_U17	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-08_U18	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. What you're saying is that people who want to go to a top specialist want to increase their self-esteem by making sure they can get to the professor. They have nothing else to do, and they just want to talk to a smart person. But we have a mass of people who really need a very good specialist consultation. They have a consignment note, and they're still waiting in line for months. At the same time, a high-level specialist can receive a paid appointment almost immediately. You say that medical care must be right and fair. So is this system right and fair if you don't get help with the money from the Health Insurance Fund, but you get your money?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-08_U19	If we look at the health system as a whole, we certainly cannot say from the patient's point of view that all health care is free. A small share, be it in the payment of medicines or treatment, is still, and it also depends on which social group the person belongs. However, access to a top specialist should be decided more in the future by a doctor who has more knowledge to understand whether it is necessary to go to a top specialist and, if so, immediately or sometime later. You understand very well yourself, a good questioner, that if all people wanted to go to one of the top specialists, but 50-70% of them really wouldn't need it, a good family doctor would be enough, then a clearly unfair order would develop. But society would get completely wrong information so that we would need more of these specialists. In the case of right and fair medical care, I also meant that, when we look at the health system as a whole, nearly 50% of the visits to the emergency department have been cases where there has been no need to attend. The family doctor would solve the problem. This means that the whole system must be more flexible, fairer and proper. The skills and knowledge of family doctors must be used. They're getting more and more thanks to training and internship. In general, I certainly dare say that these measures will help to shorten the order of treatment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-08_U20	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-08_U21	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. A few years ago, I waited almost three months for an operation with the nerves of my hand. I'm not a medic and I don't know the correct terms, but a little later, I realized that more or less the same problem was a citizen of Ilves who went into surgery in Finland. Do you think that the President went there because there are too long queues for specialists in Estonia, or does he not trust Estonian doctors who will definitely do such operations?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-08_U22	Honourable questioner! It is very difficult for me to answer you because I have not seen the medical history of the honourable President, and I do not know which consilium was decided specifically to receive this treatment abroad. My desk goes through a variety of topics related to treatment abroad, and I know that there are doctors' consiliates to make such decisions. This is not the case for one person. But right now, I can't answer you. When it comes to the time of surgery, doctors will also decide whether surgery at the scheduled time would worsen human health so much that it should be done immediately, or whether it can be done at the scheduled time when the queue arrives. In your case, the waiting period was three months.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-08_U23	Thank you, Minister. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-08_U24	Ladies and gentlemen, We received extremely ignorant and demagogic answers from the Minister, nothing concrete was said. The Minister says that we have had the aim of shortening the waiting lists of doctors and improving the availability of specialist medical care. However, we can see that from year to year these queues have been extended, not the other way around. According to the Health Insurance Act, as we know, the order of special medical care may be one and a half months, i.e. six weeks, no more. But when we look at how long these queues are, we see that sometimes even five or six months. For example, the North Estonian Regional Hospital now has 143 days to join the neurologist, or five months. In order to get to the eye doctor, 108 days are expected at the University of Tartu Hospital. Now they want to shorten the queues, but another filter will be inserted to prevent the doctor from accessing it. You can only say that this makes it even more difficult for people to get to a specialist. There's no logic here. What can we call shortening it? This is completely irrational! This will definitely prolong the process. The only time a person goes to a specialist is when there's a really big problem. Basically, he goes to a family doctor when he's in some easier trouble or needs some prescription medicine. But when a person feels that the problem is very great, he goes to a specialist, of course. Nobody wants to go in there and wait five months. Whenever possible, you and your family doctor will try to make things right. Indeed, you can already imagine that the innovation is simply a greater runner-up of patients. Family doctors themselves say that this must be a very burdensome extra work for them, nor do they see the need for people to run. Moreover, they fear that they will not be given more money to do so, simply increasing the burden. For example, the Women's Doctors' Association has said very specifically that we cannot launch such a system until family doctors have an appropriate office, apparatus, and preparation. A person still wants to go to a particular specialist. I can't imagine how it could be in a small country where a family doctor has a small room, a chair and a table, and in case of need, a blood test can be taken to send it to the larger center where the answers come from. What offices are we talking about? Why are we putting this in the filter? A perfectly artificial obstacle is being made so that people do not get to a specialist in their own way. The result may be that the disease becomes chronic, and later it is more expensive to heal. Surely, this contrast is very great when a person was able to get to a doctor more easily. If there was a problem, the precinct doctor would head straight to the next office, or he would come with you, and you'd have the necessary tests, including X-rays. Everything was available. Clearly medical care is expensive, I understand. But our family medical system is the cheapest, most money-saving system in the world. After all, the goalkeeper's role is to prevent a person from moving forward. So far, there was no interdependency between many disciplines, with certain exceptions. For example, a person with psychiatric problems may not want to report such problems in detail to a family doctor, such as concerns related to the competence of a dermatologist or a pulmonologist. A person recognizes them and looks for help when it really is in trouble. I'm not talking about a gynecologist. I'd still like to go to that trained specialist. The patient wants to be treated by a specialist. It is strange that this innovation, which is now being proposed, is called improving the availability of specialist medical care. I don't know how that's possible. The Minister has just said that solidarity is not diminishing, but we are actually seeing people's own participation constantly increasing. A lot of people go to a doctor for their money to get help. Dental care can only be paid for its own money and the price of medicines is very high. I think that if the minister got more into the system, he'd realize that a person would go to a doctor for money with a lot of trouble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-08_U25	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-08_U26	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. I'll ask for three more minutes, just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-08_U27	Please, an extra three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-08_U28	When I came here, I didn't think about what I was gonna talk about. It's my specialty, and my heart hurts all the time. But in eight minutes, you have to make it. Oh, yeah! You see, even when the health reform was started 15 years ago, there were medical queues, but then there was something completely different under the queue. They were five-six-seven people sitting on a bench outside the doctor's office waiting. If someone had to wait an hour or a half or two hours, he could write a complaint and then he was in pretty bad trouble. No one at the time imagined that months of queues could ever be formed. When this health reform was initiated, doctors actually warned that, in this form, the health care system, which has private service providers applying for public money, was not good, in competition, using all kinds of permitted and unacceptable techniques, trampling on each other's feet. But most didn't. I remember very well that when the health reform was planned, the first thing that happened was that everyone with medical papers was kicked out of the Ministry of Social Affairs. It was easier to reform health care then. And now we are seeing more or less the situation that was then warned about. But the time has gone 15 years has gone! Younger people don't know what Marika Tuus was talking about right now on this remote. They don't know how it used to be. They don't know that, and they don't care. They see the problems now. However, new solutions must now be considered. But new solutions, I'm an old person, I often know that's what's been working for decades. There has been talk of health centres as if it were something very new, very prospective, very interesting. Finland has health centres, Sweden has health centres. But throughout this period of counseling, we had the same health centres, these were the same clinics. We'll be back in a circle. We've been heroic about shortening the order of treatment for 15 years, but for some reason, they're just getting longer and longer. It's like a three-headed dragon: you kill one head, three grows in place. There are still new development plans, new implementation plans, other documents. A ministry full of officials do a good job of sitting around all day at the meetings and working in the evenings, waving something to write. They sit at a meeting with 60 people, show each other their colored PowerPoints, and sincerely rejoice over them. This kind of work goes on all the time, but the queues keep increasing. Why is that? No one understands that. At the same time, they say we're stupid and lazy, we make little, we don't pay enough taxes, there's no money in the Health Insurance Fund. This is true, but it turns out that the sickness fund also pays the cost of boxes for sick homes, is paid for electricity and heating, is paid for excise duty and VAT, all of which comes with it. It's a huge waste of money, and somehow there's plenty of money left for that. It is also thought that the problem is not about money, but about doctors running away, doctors running away, going to places with better pay and more wealthy patients. But we still have doctors, we have specialists, and we can get that deficit for money. This, by the way, is another thing that is not new at all, but has always been. Even during the grey council time, he received all sorts of fancy foreign goods as a deficit and got to the professor's appointment. Everything that was in deficit got caught, but for money. Very interesting, the basic standard of this social formation and the current social formation is one: how much money you have. And that's how it works. Now we're trying to invent something new. They're always inventing something new. The new Public Health Act is currently underway. Once again, officials sit together and write, write, write something, and one does not know what the other writes. All this comes at last before the Riigikogu and the wise Social Affairs Committee reviews it and makes its wise decisions. This is the case once again with an unspeakable law of mammoth, which no one understands, but the coalition ambassadors know that it is good, it is necessary, because it was confirmed. Because it was confirmed by a person whose words cannot be doubted. And they're squeezing their green button, we're squeezing the red button, but there's more green buttons for some reason, and that's how it's gonna work again. That's how they invent new things. You know, there's often nothing new about these new things, everything's been tried for a long time. It's like a story about two blind people studying an elephant. Doctors are looking at the part where there's a trunk, and patients are looking at the part where there's a tail. But those who do the law stick their finger where they don't want to stick their finger and study the elephant that way. And there's no way these conclusions add up. But who is the sufferer? Officials? I'm sure they're not suffering. They get their pay regardless of what the law looks like. Do doctors suffer? The doctor will find a job. The doctor will find a job anywhere, here or there, nothing will happen to him. It is the patient that this sufferer, he, the weakest party, must endure all that we come up with. We're gonna figure out a way to get a referral to the eye doctor. I can't imagine what a service that a family doctor could provide for an eye problem. In my opinion, the maximum is that he could count the eyes one and two. You can also weld such a regulation that you want to go to a specialist, you need to do a language examination with the queues shortened immediately. But when it comes to the length of the queues, it's settled how long a queue can be. These aren't longer, because the health care provider knows that if the queue is longer, it's very bad, then it gets scolded, and the health insurance fund applies repression. And so he just doesn't put any more people in line. That's why queues are always allowed in length. But what we do not have in Europe in the medium term is the life expectancy of our people. For some reason it is not as long as the average European. Those who are now decision-makers, who are now ministers, will be retired in a few years' time. And if the people are sick, unable to work, unable to earn a salary, then they will not pay a tax, and then there will be no pension for today's minister, today's citizen or today's official. Then we've got a problem. But it has to be solved now. The principle is like medicine: if it hurts, you have to cut it, not when the cramps are over and the patient is dead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-08_U29	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-08_U30	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I can't imagine how evil you are, what nihilists! You can't do that! Think, give me some advice! Maybe people just don't know what to do. I know what to do. It's a very easy way. I have a vital experience, over 30 years old. So I served in the crown, and we used to fire missiles several times in Kazakhstan near Balkash. And there was a story that the camp we were in needed to drive a polygon some 20 miles [40 km]. There were two roads. One way was for the officers, they drove like they were on asphalt there, of course, but they had a perfectly smooth road. We soldiers, however, were driving KRAZ or GAZ-66 along such a hole in the road that when you jumped out of the car 40 minutes later, it was hard to even breathe, the kidneys hurt like that, and everything that got hit in that car. One day, a general came to this polygon to check things out, and I don't know if he was on purpose or by accident, but he was taken from that camp to the polygon along the path of the soldiers. When he finally got out of the car and asked if everyone was going down that road, he was told that no, you happened to be on it, but there's a very good one next to it, a good one for gentlemen. Then the general said that now all the officers, all the commanders, will be driving down this soldier's path, and if anyone violates that rule, he will be deprived of the banners. And he'll be back in a few months, and he'll be in control. I can't imagine how that was possible, but in two weeks the road was fine, all 40 kilometers. Look, we have about 10,000 people in line right now, but the question is about one thousand. First of all, the government, or one and a half people, we put the president here with pride, the Chancellor of Justice, perhaps someone else, plus us here in the Riigikogu, or a hundred people, as well as those who, in the Ministry of Social Affairs, are responsible for medical care, the heads of the departments and who are all there, together with a maximum of 150 people, plus their family members, we take around six people per person. That's a thousand people. It is necessary to prohibit them from receiving treatment abroad if an analogous service exists in Estonia. That's point one. Point two: No paid medicine! You get sick, and if you're on that list, you'll be with the common people in that order. Believe me, the solution doesn't even take two weeks! The situation will be corrected momentarily when their own health.. including ours begins to depend on whether you stand in this stupid order or not. Nihilism is a very negative phenomenon. There is a need to figure out, to advise the Minister, to advise the Ministry, and I think the advice that has now sounded is very practical, very right and leads to a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-08_U31	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-08_U32	Thank you for the floor. I'm asking for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-08_U33	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-08_U34	I didn't intend to come here to perform, but the orators were so strong, I thought I'd say a few words for myself. I was encouraged to do so, above all, by Mr Kruus' promise to all of us, who want to get to the doctor, that everything would get better, because the Ministry would start mapping the situation. We map out who is sick, how many people live in Estonia and how many doctors we have. I'm sure this job will go on because this mapping has been started a dozen times. It is therefore a good thing to move attention away from the main problem, we are going to map, we are going to create a new Commission, we are going to call it a committee to reduce the number of doctors, we are going to write about him in the paper how well they work, and then we will see how the results are. By then, the new minister will be here on the remote, and he'll say that we're going to start mapping, see what the medical situation is. That's how we do it. I haven't taken it all out of the air. I will, for example, bring our tender minister, Mrs Sullingu. I was at his great meeting when Russia had also introduced its own measures in response to European sanctions and when our dairy producers were concerned about what would happen to them now. There were a lot of people from the Ministry of Agriculture and other places together at this big meeting, everyone was terrified of what was coming now. And Minister Padar and Mrs Sulling, who is Minister of Foreign Trade, promised farmers there what? Mrs Sulling said this: it is clear that we are going to help you, but first give me time, I will map out the situation we have in the dairy market. I recall those words from memory, but more or less that's the idea. He charts this state of milk production to this day, and I have not heard of any new foreign market receiving our milk, with the exception of Belarus. And neither did we go to Belarus on our own initiative. Belarus turned to us; it lacks milk, because it can send as much milk to Russia as it wants, and so it asks for more from Estonia. Now you're saying this is just one example. But I will give another example of the ministers of the Reform Party. This government is already leading us, I don't know how many years, and we'll see where we've come from. Estonia is more or less in the same dead end as medicine with its queues, which are constantly increasing. And things are getting worse. I will now bring the next minister, Hanno Pevkur, for example. When the Reform Party entered into a power union with the Socialists, the administrative reform that the state had been working on for years was thrown out of my mind and I do not know how many millions have been wasted. Suddenly it became clear that this administrative reform with its centres of influence or what they were called "nowhere," we are now going to introduce a new form of administrative reform. And listen to what Minister Pevkur said in the Committee on Rural Affairs. He said that we would start mapping the situation in Estonia. I asked what it meant to be a mapping. He said that we are going to map out the services that the local government must provide to people and the state. Wow! We have had our country again for 23 years, and now we are going to look at the functions of local governments! That's exactly what it felt like today when we heard Kruus say we were going to start mapping. Well, great, let's map out the longer lines. Mr. Kruuse, I can come visit you and tell you this. I know exactly where the longer queues are and where the shorter queues are. The whole picture is clear: in my constituency, the queues are shorter and in large cities they are longer. And I really don't understand what politics it is when you say that not everyone has to go to good doctors. Then go to the worst doctor if you get sick! You also go to the family doctor with your eye problems, don't go to the eye doctor! Mr Vassilyev recalled his youth, the Soviet era. I would say that this problem I do not remember that there have been other lines of medical care than those sitting behind the doors at the clinics. There was no such thing. But everything changed when we became Minister of Social Affairs, Mrs Lauristin, who said that we were going to have a great family medical system that we were taking over from England. He told the people about the fact that all families get their family doctor, and this cute family doctor heals your babies, heals your mom and dad, and I'm sure Grandpa and Grandma. And in England, I remember how Marju Lauristin told me that you could invite your family doctor home at night. Now we know that no family doctor ever comes to your house during the day. This is what has been the policy of our country for 23 years, most of which have been invented and implemented, i.e. imposed on us by the infamous Reform Party, which now wants to wash itself off from previous activities that have failed. However, the long medical queues are one of the patterns of the Reform Party's policies, which is exactly where we have reached with Estonian medicine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-08_U35	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-08_U36	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not gonna take three more minutes, but I'm gonna try to talk a few sentences about what I'm thinking about today's topic we're discussing. We do not raise this issue for the first time, our enquiries have been related to specialist medical care before. And the Minister of Health and Labour, Mr Kruuse, is not the first minister to talk about this subject, and in the years that I have been in the Riigikogu, I have already heard such answers several times. The most interesting thing is that, as clever as the questions asked in the enquiries are, the answers given to us in this Chamber are just as clever. So we go like a little pingpong: we ask questions, you answer us, and life goes on the way it is. All these years we have really spoken like this, and I am convinced that this talk will continue if we do not have the courage to do the one and the main thing. The courage to say that we took a decision 15 years ago, as Mr Viktor Vassilyev said, which does not match the people's current will. It doesn't match the will of people who want to get help from doctors. I recommend to our ministry and government, of course, I do not know what may happen on 1 March, but I suggest that the next government reconsider and admit to the people that we made a mistake 15 years ago. We did not go this way, we did not do what you are now calling for, and that is why we must do this and this in the future. Whoever's guilty, say no to the people! We understand that. Perhaps then we will not come to the Chamber with such questions and will not ask the Minister for Health and Labour what happened after all. Let's think about it, let's get the courage together and talk to the people about the real situation! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-08_U37	Members of the Riigikogu do not wish to negotiate any more. Would you like a minister? No, I don't. I will close this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-08_U38	Free mike. Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-08_U39	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, When Tallinn came up two years ago with a really constructive idea that public transport could be free, many at first were startled by this idea and did not believe in its implementation. To date, however, Tallinn has proved very convincingly that free public transport is a completely possible and viable solution. It is now time to take the next decisive step and make public transport free across Estonia. The Centre Party is committed to ensuring that all intra- county routes across Estonia are free of charge. We have calculated that since the state already supports 70% of the county public transport in the form of subsidies, finding the remaining 30% of it would be to get over the tail of a dog. The additional cost to the country would be just EUR 13 million, which is not too much to find; rather, it is a matter of political will. About the same amount is spent on the city of Tallinn's public transport. If Tallinn can do this, there should be no question about the Estonian state. We know that many jobs are located in county centres. People would travel from their village or village to Rakverre, Paide, Haapsalu, Jõgeva or some other county centre to work, but transport is too expensive and robs most of the salary, which is why it is stopped. I also know pensioners who have to ask their neighbor for a loan at the end of the month to visit a doctor in Rakvere, for example. There are plenty of cases where a person becomes a real obstacle to movement simply because he does not have the money to buy a bus ticket. If we really want the people to stay in the country and be ready to work in Estonia, we need to improve rural people's access to jobs. Free internal public transport is nothing mysterious or utopian; it is a completely real and feasible solution to keep life in the countryside. I personally am a strong supporter of this idea and will do everything in my power to ensure that free public transport from Tallinn can reach Lääne-Virumaa and elsewhere in Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-08_U40	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-08_U41	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, To conclude the specialist doctor's debate, a quote from Bulgakov's 'Dog's Heart' would be very appropriate. Good Sharikov calls out there, "Move it, you fuckers! Everybody line up! ' Well, more or less so. But more seriously now. When you meet people over the years, you know in advance that sooner or later someone will start asking that question or something. One such question, which is always asked, is the average salary. This, however, is an interesting thing. For example, in the summer of this year, if Statistics Estonia comes out with information that the average wage in Estonia is 1023 euros, four out of five people will start to ask you how interesting it is how they calculate it. Because his real life shows something quite different. Where do the happy ones with such high wages live, and how is it even calculated? That is why, colleagues, I am not talking to you right now, but to the people who are watching us on TV. Because few people know, although it has already been said, I would say, for 20 years and Mr Nestor sitting behind me has once written on this subject and explained it very well, why we have a real average salary and what we are happily shown as a result of statistics, so different. The point is that Statistics Estonia calculates the average salary by taking people in public service, larger companies and, optionally, the rest of them very selectively. But if you look at the data from the Tax and Customs Board, there is a special mention of personal income tax. If you know this number, and if you know how many working people took part in paying this tax to the state, you can calculate the real average. For example, in November, on the basis of these calculations, this is the last figure on their homepage, although I do not even know with the precision of 1,000 people how many people are working, there are taxpayers in our country, because there is simply no such figure anywhere to take between EUR 770 and EUR 780. 1023 euros was a mystery! The actual amount is 770.780, so it's something else entirely. So don't take this seriously. There is a lie, a big lie, and statistics, as one proverb says, or just as wisdom. Real life, and what is reflected in statistics, are still very different things. The difference is usually 20 to 25%; in the old days, it was sometimes even 30%. Do not let yourself be fooled and your nervous system be ruined by a head-to-head trouble, where this happy country, this happy Republic of Estonia, where on average I and my neighbours should receive 1023 euros a month. It doesn't exist, the reality is completely different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-08_U42	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-08_U43	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm gonna bust your ass for telling you that we're gonna have a south-east-Estonian käsiüs üks sääne leht, minka name is Uma Leht. And the word uma umamisõ and other aokirnik. And we say, "Aoki" ränik, "His name is also a slice of the mosquitoes" and his name is Olavi, the Ruitlas. Temä viimätseh leht Kirotäs säänse lugu om 'Raha-hädä'. And umah pooh his chiroo aunt like this: 'I have a bizarre grey one, that all our money is timid. Inemisi has a luck story about money, luck tells joy about money as well as money. And everyone's lucky man's a lucky man's lucky man's lucky man's lucky man's lucky man's lucky man's lucky man's money. Very sad pattern perrä olõmõ elämä pantu. ' And I also want to give you money to walk away. So much so in south-eastern Estonia, so om õgah stateh in this way, here in Estonia also, that if you oliõd midägi bought it, then you päd masma money. If you've bought a piece of sausage from a shop, then you'll light up and massage cashier's money. I mean, if you're even a servant, then you're also gonna buy the masma money for the tollõ teenys. A Estonian stateh om happened in such a way that the masma of money was not bought by the Estonian stateh om, and not even used by a deenüst. And I'm nasty and I'm nasty about mano, tu om waiting areas. Estonian stateh om in such a way that you leave the Estonian state in a flash, then you will not use the servant's money, you will not use the masma money. I'm here with the stumps of the straw already on that subject. I am going to talk to the Minister of the Interior of Torkny, with the chancellor of oliõnnu, and now, at the end of the day, this topic is going to be far-distant so that the coalition council was also taken to the top of the topic. I wanted to have a silo in the Riigikogu a slice of the waiting period, because it is not normal for a vehicle from a nearby state to a vällä and a masva from that iist, which end up with the Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaheril om vussi õetu. Ken-Marti Vaher's comprehension tetä sändse a contract that inemisõ piät masma sis, whether the waiting area service is not used. Paljo's ugly omma from my hand cynünü, et ku long-distance tou topic om, since the wind was accepted. I'm lucky to say that the abolition of waiting allowances perrä doesn't piä säädyst tegemä, tuu decision om Õvõ Interior Minister's handh, tuu om internalminitri Hanno Pevkuri handh, who piät tollõ contract to review and piät to redirect all the vehicle so that they go to the border without waiting allowances for masmalda. So, with the power of Social Democrat omma, the topic of the Tollõ was taken up hard, and I hope that nädälä peräst omma uvav news. And if there's no change, I promise you that we'll take the Southeast Estonian side of the road. Thanks!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-08_U44	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-08_U45	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. It was so nice to listen to the wonderful performance of my colleague, Inara Luigas. I'm sorry, Inara, for listening to this! It was probably not meant for me or Stalnukhin or anyone who sits here, but for your constituents. Ah, there's Rainer waving, that he understood. It's very good that you understand, Rainer! The entire Estonian people assume that people who sit in the Chamber of the Riigikogu will understand, well, whether it is always the concerns of the people, but at least the words of each other. And I thought I'd talk to my constituents. I want to assure my constituents that people often have some strange, not quite the right idea of members of the Riigikogu. It's like all they do here is drink cognac and take bribes from this morning. Nobody does any real work, like they don't. Well, that's not the way it is. There are still chosen people who have some sort of plans to do something for the people, and they will. The work of the Riigikogu is not the work of individual people. It's teamwork, and that's why the MPs are in the factions. Only within a group can something be done for its constituents and for the people of its country at all. Yes, we have indeed been divided into factions. We have four big parties. First of all, the Patriot Union. Every decent country must have a national party. He is, and he stays with his support. He was once exposed to a bad disease called Res Publica, and he's wrestling with it, but they can handle it. The Reform Party has made good progress with its reforms all the time. Still, to make sure that people who are young are successful, healthy and rich. But, unfortunately, marching forward with great momentum, as Taavi was marching along the airfield, somehow in the direction of the NATO fighters flying, the Reform Party somehow leaves behind those who are a little worse, sicker, perhaps not so quick to think. There has been no word of solidarity here. Then the Social Democrats. A good party, of course, except that all over the world, social democrats choose people who are poorer and with lower levels of education and who live a poorer life. For some reason, those who are wealthier than the average, educated and trendy will vote for the Social Democrats. Being a Social Democrat means wearing Armani's pants. In fact, it is, of course, a moderate party, as it has always been. But very timely, they came up with a great idea: to take the slogan of the Social Democratic Party and put it on just like Armani's shirt. And they look really good in that shirt! The other thing is that people should understand what is right and what isn't. The middle party, by the way, is a very wrong idea. For some reason, people who should be in favour of the social democratic movement are voting in favour of the Centre Party. But the Centre Party is actually a centre right party, not some left side. That's the center right party, the middle party. And the task of the Centre Party is to build up the middle class in Estonia. The middle class means a family all over the world where the father and mother have a job that enables them to support the family and buy a dwelling, a house or an apartment, and not a debt. The family should have a car, not a car, and they should be able to afford their children proper education and circles of interest. Somehow we think people like that are fucking gangsters. It's not, it's the middle class of the whole world. That is how we have policies divided into four political parties. Now there's some small connections. Maybe they'll get some votes, but the market is actually divided. But, people, what I wanted to say to you is that you have to vote not only by judging who's climbed the top stump, and there's the loudest screaming of colored feathers. We need to think about and find out what your elected delegates have done in this Chamber. Whether they have been present, whether they have performed and listened attentively to the speeches of others, be they presented in the Võro dialect or, for my sake, even in Setu language. If a person has anything to say, he will say it from this remote control, in the hope that they will hear not only in this hall but also outside these walls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-08_U46	The sitting is adjourned. I'll see you tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 16.11.
