ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U1	Good fellows, honourable Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the Tuesday session of the first working week of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over the drafts or inquiries to the Riigikogu. There's no call. Let's go to the messages. Wednesday, s. The following members of government will attend Question Time on 15 January: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher and Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas. Good fellows, we'll do a presence check. 82 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, none 19.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U2	The first reading of the draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group begins. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu Mailis Repsi, member of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U3	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that it is probably because we started our work today vigorously and suddenly that most members of the Riigikogu have not yet left the hall. But the greater the pleasure I am to present to you the draft amending the law on basic school and upper secondary school. I would like to remind you, in a few sentences, of what has prompted the Centre Party Group to put forward this draft and why we have discussed this issue repeatedly and thoroughly in the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U4	After all, it is nice to have a lot of ideas and discussions about the basic school and upper secondary school law. I'm gonna help you get those thoughts back on track. When, in the summer before Midsummer Day, we discussed the amendment of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act and, in quite late hours of the night, voted in favour or against a number of amendments, several issues were either left open until the end of the debate or our decisions raised questions in society. At this point, I will mention only those topics to which it would be appropriate to return to the Riigikogu before the spring state exams. It has been decided by a majority in the Riigikogu that state examinations must be taken to complete the upper secondary school. I would remind you that from this year on, these are definitely the Estonian Language Exam (the second language exam in the national curriculum of the upper secondary school), the mathematics exam (you are certainly aware that this can be a narrow or broad mathematics course exam), the foreign language exam and, of course, the school exam. The state examination has been completed if the student has received at least 1 point (this requirement remains valid until today), and satisfactorily completed if the student has received at least 20 points. Such an interpretation was perhaps necessary before Midsummer Day, but now, before the state exams it would be good to review this 1 and 20 point system of basic school and upper secondary school law. One or the other should be chosen. It may be decided that the right is, as the Minister has firmly found, a 1 point, or a decision may be taken which we strongly recommend to consider that 20 points are needed to pass the state examination. The next topic that was discussed during our spring debate in many speeches was the financing of support specialists. It's perfectly clear that it's still open to debate. I believe that, apart from Minister Aaviksoo, everyone else has not understood what the future of funding for support specialists really is. I would like to remind you that we are talking about logopeds, psychologists, social pedagogues and specialized teachers who have been trained accordingly. In addition to the trainings funded by Estonian taxpayers, these specialists have been trained by external means. For several years further training of social pedagogues has taken place. These specialists are essential in schools. Given the different needs of children, the presence of such professionals in school is often elementary in order to enable them to complete their education. So far, the funding of support specialists, as well as the funding of all other school staff, of course, was under the responsibility of the school holders, i.e. in the case of private schools it was the responsibility of a private legal person, in the case of state schools the state and in the case of municipal schools the local government. However, until last year, there was such an additional possibility that, once the teachers' salaries had been paid out of the education allowance, the allowance could be paid to support specialists. This is what most municipalities did. The Minister's statements that nothing has changed in funding are not correct. It has changed that the Minister now mentions the funding of support specialists from education support for the stealing or non-targeting of teachers' salaries. I would remind you that in 2013 separate funding was provided for support specialists, but no additional funding was provided for support specialists from 2014. There are plenty of specialists in this Chamber who are very well aware that the funding of local governments is inconclusive at all. Of course, if the school does not have the resources, it is likely that the activities of interest and support specialist services will be those for which funding will be discontinued, as the acquisition of a compulsory curriculum must be guaranteed. The next issue is the calculation of teachers' working time. Indeed, the latest amendments introduced a 35-hour week for teachers. Within it, it no longer reveals what part of the teacher's work is about giving an hour and what part of the rest of the work, such as preparing for classes. A regulation was adopted in September, on which we were promised in June that it would certainly clarify a great many things. Unfortunately, it doesn't specify anything. The representative of the Estonian Educational Workers' Association has also pointed out that some schools have already been told that, for example, 27 subjects are not full-time, with a full-time of 35 hours. Of course, it would therefore be quite appropriate for the legislator to specify or guide what part of this 35 hours could be teaching and education. The next item is the question of accreditation. In particular, when we removed grades from the basic school and upper secondary school law, I recall that they were a junior teacher, a teacher, a senior teacher and a method teacher, the justification was that a system of invitations is about to come, which will happily replace the system of accreditation. The old four-stage system is simply not flexible enough. It is now clear that the new system has not been implemented. The teachers' representative organisations are of the opinion that the system is not modern without the qualifications of teachers. Our proposal is to keep the ranks in place until society and our country are ready and we have a new system of invitations. It has become clear in the discussions held in the Committee on Culture that perhaps this will happen in the near future. But there is no system at present, and our proposal is to keep the system of accreditation until the new system is in place. This is easy to do, because when we adopted amendments to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, we introduced transitional provisions here. So there won't be a hole in between. Funding will also be able to take this into account in the years 2014 to 2015. These are the changes that we have discussed in the Committee on Culture. When the draft law amending the basic school and upper secondary school law 477 was postponed, we had the hope that by the time this draft came to this hall in January, I would remind you that it has already been 2014; a number of questions have been answered, from the funding of support specialists and the organisation of the same state exams. However, it is increasingly confirmed that the draft is still on the agenda and that these issues have not yet been answered. The Chairman of the Steering Committee will certainly present our discussions to you. I will only say so much that this issue has been discussed quite several times in the Commission. The most clear view was that, since these questions have not been answered, the draft will remain in the process. We hope that Mr Aaviksoo will at some time also present the Government of the Republic's understanding of these issues. That is all about the Centre Party draft. I hope that this bill will help you to think about the issues that concern the school people. If necessary, our group will continue to be prepared to clarify these controversial issues, because, for example, the issue of financing support specialists definitely needs to be clarified, whether it is clear in the financing chapter or through agreements with local authorities. When I look at the concept of training children with special educational needs, it becomes clear to me that the worst we can do is if we lose existing systems from school during the development of new concepts. It will be very, very difficult to rebuild them later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U5	Good waitress, I'm sorry! Honourable fellows! For each political group, there is a very big noise coming from every row of benches. I ask you to honor the waitress and those who wish to hear the presentation!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U6	Good waitress, you have questions. Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U7	Dear waitress, These proposals, which are contained in your draft, are all extremely sensible. The Social Democratic Party Group will undoubtedly support them. But suppose an incredible thing happens and your bill is passed as a law. Would you be satisfied with the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, or will you see further fundamental problems that need to be changed?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U8	Thank you, good questioner! When the proposals of the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Centre Party are summarised, there will certainly be over a hundred substantive proposals. In the draft, we have highlighted the issues on which speakers on behalf of the coalition have said that they will be returned. Since September became October and October has now become January, but no return has been made, the Central Party Group has initiated this draft. But we found that we only bring out the issues where at least the Riigikogu has a consensual view that they raise questions. More broadly, the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act is one of the laws that creates political as well as educational discussion. There are certainly issues to come back to, such as state secondary schools, funding and even language management issues. As life has shown, there are not even political changes on this agenda, but political changes made by the Minister. The basic school and upper secondary school law often also depends on people's personal opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U9	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U10	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! I'll come back to their 1 and 20 points for a second. This is actually an important issue, because it is true that no political group or ministry offered an option in this wording. But one might think that maybe this night - born decision will open up new opportunities for us. For example, we had two categories of upper secondary school graduates in this regard: just finished and satisfactorily completed. The point of the 1 point was that the person who passed the exams wouldn't get stuck so he could get through school. But could it not be the two levels of university law or internal university legislation that, for example, those who have just passed the exams could not be admitted to certain areas, but only those who have passed the exams satisfactorily? For example, in order to enter the Faculty of Mathematics, exams could be satisfactorily passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U11	Thank you, good questioner! The majority of the Riigikogu clearly understood in these late nights or early mornings that it was tried to replace 1 point by 20 points, but it turned out a little differently. The fact that lawyers have desperately tried to force this new version into some round form and to explain that 1 point and 20 points are complementary is a good face in a foolish situation. It is incomprehensible to me why we have already reached the new year, but still have not come out of this embarrassing situation. I believe that there is no political group that would agree to take the same or the same decision. It is a matter of course how the vote is finally taken. Let's just take this one provision and change it. It can be said that those who have chosen to study law at a university can cite this unfortunate case as a very foolish example in some lectures. We are not setting the best example here. As regards the fact that we are bringing in 1 point, the Minister has made it very clear in this Chamber that both Innove and all ministerial officials are still based on the view that the State Exam has been passed when 1 point has been obtained. In fact, a person has graduated from upper secondary school when he has received at least 1 point. As for satisfactory or unsatisfactory performance, what matters is what the student continues to do. Despite the very significant decrease in the number of our young people, I hope that there will not be a university in the next year or the next year, where there will be a sufficient threshold of 20 points. Either way, it's 20 points legal because a student has passed the exam with 1 point, but if the university puts 47 points as a threshold, then it's actually important for the student to score 47 points or more. This threshold may also be different, for example 39 or 55 points. No employer is going to ask you how many points you got on the state exam, but he's gonna look at you and have a job interview with you, hopefully he's gonna ask you what your job skills are. He can also send you to a vocational school. When, in the spring, there was a debate here at night about when the State Exam was passed, whether it needed 1 or 20 points, the fact that both of these options remained in force side by side was simply legal stupidity.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U12	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U13	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleague Mailis, As you remember, many coalition politicians recognized the basic school and upper secondary school law adopted in a modified form as the best law in spring of last year. Today it's only turned out to be full of crap. Not to mention that there is no money left to hire support professionals, it turns out there isn't enough money to pay teachers' salaries. How are January's salaries paid to teachers, and on what basis? When will it be clear that the teachers are confident that they will receive this 20% raise?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U14	Good questioner! I was hoping that today, Tuesday, I could give you a more precise answer, because we had the opportunity yesterday to have a conversation with Minister Aaviksoo on this subject in the Committee on Culture. The Minister explained that, in order to pay teachers' salaries, local authorities receive educational support funds and are allocated by a decree of the Government of the Republic, which is currently being developed. Regulations of the Government of the Republic are usually drawn up in January or February. This regulation will come at the right time, hopefully at the end of January, at the worst in early February. That's all the information I can give you today. No more information was given to us in the Committee on Culture. As regards the difference from previous years, there have indeed been years when the grant fund regulation came from the Ministry of Finance and was adopted as a decree of the Government of the Republic only in April, but the amount was always known to local authorities already in December. In a situation where the local government does not even know the order of magnitude of this amount, I have not seen in the last 12 years when I have been in politics. Even when new financing models have been developed, the order of magnitude has been given to and has been taken into account by each local authority. You've been mayor of Põlva for a long time, and you know that what came out of this regulation was a technical matter. From this point on, investment funds opened up and could make contracts with ministries, but the basis for paying wages was already clear in January. There is no such legal clarity at the moment. On what basis do local authorities pay their wages? They do it in good faith and from their own resources, but they don't know that amount. They only know what the minister said from this remote control, that the reduction is not more than 5%.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U15	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U16	Thank you, good manager. Good Mailis! However, I will ask you about the same subject, and I will go on with it. You didn't answer me, which would be against the fact that, for example, even in the law of the university, just passing the exam is not enough to get to the university, but the exam must have been passed satisfactorily. This possibility could also be introduced in a document within the university, in competitive terms, etc. There are plenty of talented writers in the world who weren't on top of you at school with mathematics. The question arises as to why such people should be discriminated against if they do not intend to continue to study in the field in which they have to pass the state examination, but in some other areas they are highly talented. It is worth wondering if we have opened the door to opportunities instead, not to see this change as mere restraint. Yeah, it didn't work out the way it was planned, but now we should see what happens next.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U17	Thank you, good questioner! In a situation where it seems that the Government of the Republic does not wish to proceed with the details of the organisation of state examinations in the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, we all continue to interpret and remain valid for both the 1-point option and the satisfactory execution of the 20-point option. But I don't think it's necessary to clarify university law personally. The reason is that these are autonomous universities who have set their own admission rules. The university has often given the faculties a free hand here. Should we make it clear that there is a satisfactory performance in mind? I hope not. Look at last year's thresholds. Despite being very critical and considering the thresholds to be incredibly low, the media were still present and higher than 20%. So I hope there is no need for clarification. Of course, it's the first year after the change, a little like a trial year. But so far, the state examination points that universities have demanded have been much higher. Does this 20 point have any legal meaning? Well, that's the point of interpretation, isn't it? I understand that 20 points have no legal meaning, because the State Exam has been passed by 1 point. With 1 or 2 points, the upper secondary school has basically graduated and then everything depends on what the institution to which the young person enters takes into account whether it considers that the range from 1 to 19 points, i.e. not satisfactory completion, is sufficient. Perhaps this is true in some disciplines. However, as regards geniuses or, in certain cases, people with special needs, a separate form is provided for here. Universities have also taken into account young people who, due to a particular need, cannot take one or another state examination. I'll bring another nuance here. We'll wait till spring. I think it's much more confusing than these state exam points are creating a narrow and wide range of mathematics exams. We adopted a national curriculum a few years ago, more specifically by a decree of the Government of the Republic. We have found in the Riigikogu, both in the Committee on Culture and in the Chamber, that everyone should take the state mathematics examination. Our aim has been to pay more attention to natural and scientific sciences and to bring more young people to them. By setting this noble objective, we learned that this state exam has been concentrated for years on those young people who are very good at mathematics and have chosen this exam voluntarily. A lot of people had a legitimate concern that this exam was too much for some students. This was followed by the idea that there could be a narrower, i.e. a simpler mathematics, an elementary mathematics course, and a broader course designed for those who are focused on this specialty. This year's Innove news was very clear. Honourable parents and respected young people! When choosing a math exam, you must consider where you are going to enter. The University may assume that a broad mathematics course exam has been taken. This may raise quite a few questions before spring. This is not, of course, the subject of the Riigikogu hall, but it could be under the discussion of education policy whether the decisions we made a few years ago were justified as to whether they would give rise to additional disapproval. Suppose a young person had studied a narrow mathematics course in the 10th, 11th and 12th grade on the grounds that it was a school choice. According to the law, schools must, of course, be taught on the basis of both curricula, both narrow and broad mathematics curricula, but teachers have different abilities. If the student learns that a broad mathematics course exam is required in his chosen field and tries to do so, he may theoretically make it 2 points, maybe 10 points, maybe 20 points. That could be confusing. If he had taken a narrow mathematics course exam, then he might have gotten more points. How do universities take into account these exams, whether they do not take a narrow course exam at all or whether the threshold starts from 60 points? These are questions that I think we will be shaking for several years. If so far the practice had evolved, there were a lot of mistakes, but there had been very clear practice for more than ten years, then this year is such a year of guinea pigs. We're doing these experiments on young people, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U18	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U19	Dear waitress, With your bill, you want to restore the concept of 'class management fee' in basic school and upper secondary school law. If I remember correctly, after the changes made in spring, the terms 'class management fee' and 'class manager' in the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act are no longer at all. You have certainly received a lot of feedback from schools and you are familiar with this area. Do you have any feedback on whether these amendments to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act made in the spring of the current academic year have already had an impact on classroom management as an occupation? Are schools still holding up and maintaining this profession, or has something already happened?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U20	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U21	Thank you, good questioner! I haven't done an all-Estonian survey so I can answer, yes, so it's 80% or 90% of schools. However, like so many other schools, I do have a close connection. It has to be said that schools have a very conservative view of the changes in education policy. There has been a very clear change in most schools, or at least in all the schools where I have studied it, since 1 September. In particular, new employment contracts have been concluded with teachers, and for a large number of teachers, the employment contract has been one of the obligations of class management. However, most teachers have lost financially. The additional fees, which have still been paid in many places were more than EUR 100, have disappeared into this so-called big wage increase. So, in fact, the real income of teachers, despite promises to raise wages, is either actually reduced or has remained the same. Classleading is, yes, added as an obligation. Most schools still try to maintain the tradition of class management, but this work is unfortunately no longer considered as an extra job.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U22	Thank you. In the VII Riigikogu there were Kingdomans. They would certainly have developed this 1 and 20 points in other laws. For example, graduates of the Faculty of Law could be divided into lawyers and lawyers who can work as lawyers. That would have been very interesting. However, if you look at the table of amendments that we had at second reading in the spring, it turns out that there is no such amendment in this table. As a member of the Committee on Culture, you may know who presented it. How did we adopt a law that made a change that no one has proposed?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U23	Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U24	Thank you, good questioner! I guess we got a lot of discussion about it in the late June days. I can't explain how that kind of thing got into that law either. I have been explaining on behalf of the Central Party Group in the Committee on Culture, I am one of the authors of the group's proposals, I have also spoken in the Chamber several times and I have spoken to many parliamentarians on this issue. I know everyone who handled this bill in this room realized that we changed 1 to 20 points. The following interpretations simply reflect the very superficial work of lawyers.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U25	Thank you. Good waitress! In my opinion, much of the proposals made in this draft are reasonable. I think it makes sense to deal with them in the future with the draft coming from the Ministry and then see what happens. But when I read the last part of the explanatory memorandum on the effects of the law and the costs of implementing it, I had a question. Perhaps you can tell us what amount is needed to implement this entire draft and how do you think it will be possible to find this amount from the budget this year?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U26	Thank you, good questioner! First of all, when we started this draft in good faith, the year was 2013 and the Riigikogu had not yet reached a very long stage in the procedure of the 2014 budget. The purpose of the initiation at the time was to bring the funding of support specialists into the budget. Our goal was also to look at accreditations and grades of teachers. Changes to the accreditation procedure do not change the financial situation, but there have been a great deal of speculation about the funding of support specialists. With regard to the agreement with local authorities, in 2013 EUR 3 million of additional funds were allocated to them. Local authorities have said that this is not enough, but thank you for that. In fact, an agreement was reached. The Association of Municipalities and the Cities have pointed out that more than EUR 10 million would be needed, but they have also said that if EUR 3 to 5 million were to be allocated for the following year, they would agree. In the spring, we talked about the fact that education support could include a part that would go to support specialists. They were talking about 2%, and once it was 3%. What's the purpose of this? It is not so much a question of whether we are giving more money or reducing it. I am not saying that there is a gap in the education allowance, but the entire amount that has gone to the local government was not calculated with the accuracy of the teacher until at least the last year. Local authorities have always been considered to be smart enough and a good partner. No matter who has been in power, the state has never taken such a position that the municipality is told that it has 14 teachers and receives only 14 teachers' money. It has always been taken into account that there are many changing situations in education, but people must be gathered and added. It should also be taken into account that, for example, at upper secondary school, it is necessary to provide additives, it is necessary to organise project studies, students must do research work. In fact, in this very Chamber of the Riigikogu, the state gave a boost to education support. So we are talking not so much about the need for extra money, but about giving local authorities the right to finance support specialists from the money that is left over from teachers' pay. The question is whether we respect and respect local authorities enough. The amendments made to the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act in spring adopted the principle that all education support is a teacher's wage subsidy and a point; money for support specialists must come from somewhere. Local authorities agreed to three million euros in 2013. They may still agree with this now, but the need for money is certainly more than EUR 10 million. Local authorities have been asked and checked according to EHIS data how many specialists there are. After all, many local authorities pay their wages themselves. Some of this money came from teachers' salaries, some didn't. The iron rule was that only about one support specialist's money in three came from teacher education support. How much extra resources do we have? There are two solutions. Firstly, we can give local governments the right to play with their own money and stop teasing them by the Ministry of Education. I'm sorry I said that! We must give the local authorities back their freedom and respect. The second option is that we need to find additional resources. I think that this amount could not be less than EUR 10 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U27	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U28	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! This is rather a question for the coalition, and I will certainly present it to the chairman of the committee, but I want to know your position too. You said local government leaders and headmasters are very concerned because they don't know how the funding of teachers and schools will happen in the future. Budgets are currently being processed in municipalities and cities. At the end of January, the head of the school has to pay the teachers a salary. What do you suggest, how school leaders should behave, pay out 12% higher salaries or wait a little bit?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U29	Good questioner! The Government of the Republic has issued a regulation on the basis of which the compulsory minimum wage for teachers is EUR 800. If the municipality is law-abiding, it must pay out at least EUR 800 per teacher. I cannot answer the question of whether the municipality has the means to do so. In yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Culture, I didn't get that information. I'm afraid the members of the coalition are not very well informed either. I'm not quite sure the Minister knows that either. In any case, I can tell you that it is mandatory to pay at least EUR 800 according to the law, but the state budget procedure did not give me this assurance that this money will also be given to local authorities. I recall the debate on a key national issue. Minister Aaviksoo then and also answered the question (it can be checked from the verbatim) that the rise in the pay of teachers is our common goal and that all of us: the state, the local government and the teachers must find the means to do so. This means that certain teachers must be brought together and the school network reviewed. Only part of this money comes from the state, the state is only a supporter here. It's a whole new concept. If it starts to apply afterwards, for example from January or February, it will put the local authorities in a rather embarrassing position. Surely, in the middle of the academic year, teachers cannot be brought together or the curriculum changed. The school curriculum has long been approved, and even additives cannot be removed from it. Of course, it is not possible to restructure the school network in the middle of the school year. In this case, teachers are likely to be paid at the expense of something else. Whether it's street lighting, children's safety or anything else, I can't tell you that. But, yes, the sums that come to local governments, we don't know today.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U30	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U31	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! This question is sometimes asked at school. I also wanted to know your opinion as a member of the Committee on Culture. Is it perhaps time and time for class management, and it's not necessary? It's not paid for, and it's like nothing obliges a teacher to deal with it. Is this perhaps a new direction in our education policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U32	Thank you, good questioner! I hope that's not the case. But if you read the basic school and upper secondary school law, the answer is yes. Class management is no longer included in the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act as a work or the educational policy concept of class management. It does not exist as an obligation, nor does it exist in substance. There's no such thing as classleading. The question is whether we really need it. There is also the question of whether we absolutely have to have everything written in the law. I daresay it doesn't have to be. However, in the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, we have usually tried to sign in all things, even too accurately. Even if we have to get 1 or 20 points on the state exam, we have entered it. On the one hand, we are trying to put a huge amount of detail into the basic school and upper secondary school law, but on the other, we are taking some basic thing out of it. It sends a certain signal to the schools. We say exactly what security measures must be in school and who you have to call if your child doesn't get to school, but from another point we take out the subject of class management. I guess you could say that was the minister's calculated decision. In the Committee on Culture, it gave rise to some discussion, but unfortunately it did. Class management is required at law level only as long as a class teacher is employed, i.e. in primary classes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U33	Thank you. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U34	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! You started introducing the bill to support specialists and related problems. Minister Aaviksoo has reported to us in this hall that the problems of the support specialists will be solved through the establishment of support specialists in the county centres or NGOs. How do you view this opinion and what advantages and what disadvantages do you see in these NGOs?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U35	Thank you, good questioner! As for the centres that emerge in the county centers, the idea is good. It is good that there are specialists at the county or across-the-Estonian level to deal with children with special needs. In both North and South Estonia, these centres can be consulted. I hope that in the future, if the kindergarten teacher suspects that the child has Asperger's syndrome, for example (the teacher has read about it, he has Googled, but it is all his information about this syndrome), he will be able to call someone and ask for advice. At first, it will be for European money; later, Estonia will hopefully be able to maintain this system itself. A specialist comes from the centre and monitors this child, he gives advice, maybe two or three times in a year to visit the child and explain what kind of help the child and his family could get. If I have understood correctly, and this is precisely the goal of specialists working in county centres, I naturally support this idea, but all this must take place in addition to the work of support specialists at school every day. Let's look at world practice. It is becoming more and more accurate in studies and diagnoses, and exceptional behaviour is being observed in the past. It is quite clear that a special educator working at a school may not be familiar with every update or discovery made, for example, by a clinic in Germany, but a county specialist might be aware of them. When it is said that a specialist at the centre should replace the logo beet working at school who works with a child for at least one day in order to be able to move forward at the same pace as his classmates when studying in the second or third grade, this is obviously not possible. There is no way that a specialist is going from a county centre to a school in the county area all the time unless it is a small school. In very exceptional cases, this is, I imagine, logistically possible. But in a school of some considerable size, for example, logo beet services are actually necessary on a permanent basis. The same applies to social education services. The question is whether a social pedagogy and a social worker are both necessary in a small field and in a small school, but it is already a question of how these roles are shared. At the same time, a social pedagogue can also be a child rights specialist. However, this does not mean that he should replace trained specialists in dealing with children with special needs at school. It certainly does not solve all the problems of county centres, cities and major schools. I can give you an example. There are already several very special schools in Harjumaa and Tartu that deal with blind children, deaf children or children with certain special psychological needs. They are already de facto those who advise other schools. If they are given additional resources so that their specialists can travel to other schools, I believe that this is absolutely necessary. But, of course, this does not replace the support specialist in school.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U36	No further questions. Thank you, Mailis Reps! For a co-presentation, I would like to ask Urmas Klaas, Chairman of the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U37	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Culture has discussed this draft on several occasions. First, we discussed it on 23 September. On 5 November, we had a major substantive debate involving Indrek Kilk, lawyer of the Legal Department of the Ministry of Education and Research, and Ain Tõnisson, Head of the External Evaluation Department. We made the following decisions. We decided to propose a draft of 477 on the plenary agenda by 19 November, to close the first reading and to allow ten working days for amendments. All these decisions were taken by consensus. However, in the meantime, my colleague, Mailis Reps, had to travel on a business trip and, therefore, on 3 December, we reviewed our earlier decision and proposed that the draft be put on the plenary agenda on 14 January 2014. The procedural decisions on the termination of the first reading and on the tabling of amendments naturally remained in force. On 5 November 2013, a more in-depth discussion took place with representatives of the Ministry. By this time we had also received a letter from the Ministry of Education and Research, prepared on 18 October, which summarised the Government's opinion on the draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act 477. To sum up, the Government of the Republic does not support the draft initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group in this form and also outlines the reasons. I briefly refer them. The first point concerns the threshold for taking the State examination. The Ministry of Education writes: "It is reasonable to consider the collection of objective and comparable information by the state exams to be the main task for the various parties of achieving learning outcomes and abandoning the important role of state exams in graduating from upper secondary school. ' Therefore, the Ministry does not consider it necessary to support the introduction of a 20% requirement, because then all the objectives of the State Examinations should be reviewed. In the second point concerning the organisation of the support specialist service, the Ministry of Education and Research writes: 'The Government of the Republic considers that the obligation to provide the support specialist service is a mandatory self-governing task. It is unclear why the aim is to disperse responsibility and create a situation where public administration functions are simultaneously carried out by the State and local authorities. [---] The State supports the local government by providing special education and psychological services for schools in at least every county. ' With regard to the third point on the more precise definition of teachers' duties and the specification of the areas of work with an hour's accuracy, the Ministry of Education, on the basis of the opinions received when preparing the draft, states that the definition of teachers' duties is a matter of agreement between the employer and the contractor. The teaching profession shall have a post-based fee based on the general period of work and shall cover the performance of all the duties. This is an employment relationship, and the employer and the employee agree on what is done more specifically at work. The fourth point relates to the creation of an invitation system. The Ministry of Education writes that, as of 1 January 2014, a multi-level training system for the development and assessment of teachers' skills will be implemented, developed by the Chamber of Professionals in cooperation with teachers, universities, the Ministry of Education and Research and other partners. If you go back to the grades that have been in place so far and apply until the end of your term, there would be a situation where the teacher is not motivated to complement himself in four years. It'll be a mess. It is still based on the fact that the invitation system is going to work. Point 5: 'The Government of the Republic does not support the amendment in section 76 either. Since the implementation of the service of support specialists is the responsibility of the school manager pursuant to § 37 (2) of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, it is not conceivable that the state will impose a minimum wage on these specialists. ' That was the position of the Ministry of Education and Research. Of course, there was a long and thorough debate in the Commission, with views not running along the line of opposition and coalition this time. Indeed, as the previous rapporteur mentioned, since we are expecting a draft law on basic school and upper secondary school coming from the Government of the Republic, we are going to return to a number of points, also in the context of the debate on the draft to be submitted. Life will show what is best to do, whether to combine drafts or to transfer thoughts from one bill to another. That's not what we've decided. In any case, these issues will continue to work and the debate will certainly be welcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U38	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U39	Thank you. Dear Chairman of the Committee on Culture, The Committee on Culture has proposed to conclude the first reading of the draft. You talked about the Republic Government's opinion for a long time. When do you think this bill will be passed as a law?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U40	Thank you. The draft law on basic school and upper secondary school, drawn up by the Ministry of Education and Research, is on the inter-ministerial coordination circle. There are a number of debates about this. We know that the Minister for Regional Affairs has expressed a different opinion on several points; the Ministry of Finance has failed to coordinate the draft at all. Currently, the Ministry of Education and Research is still negotiating with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice. The Ministry of Education and Research gave us this information yesterday at the meeting of the Committee on Culture. Let's hope this bill gets here soon, and then we can look at all the points in this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U41	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U42	Thank you, Madam President. Chairman of the Committee on Culture! The Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, adopted before Midsummer Day, and the related amendment of other laws, abolished the hours spent by teachers, which were, as you know, 18 to 24 subjects per week. Teachers' hours were limited to 30 hours of general work. A situation was created where the teacher lost the guarantee that he would not have to give 35 subjects a week. It was left entirely at the command of the headmaster, and the teacher was left unprotected. What is your position: should the hours of teachers be restored?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U43	Thank you. That's right, you guys are getting better, we're talking 35 hours of week time, not 30 hours. When preparing the draft law on basic school and upper secondary school, we have drawn from the fact that the teacher's work is organised and organised in the same way as any other work: a contract of employment is concluded between the employer and the employee, where specific tasks are agreed, which must fit into these 35 hours. We have not received any reports of the Inquisition from schools. Directors work and teachers work. I hope that this employment relationship, such as that of doctors, will also work in schools.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U44	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U45	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I was quite surprised when you spoke about the position of the Government of the Republic on the implementation of the support specialist service. The position of the Government of the Republic was that it was given to organise local authorities and there is no point in dispersing this obligation. When you discussed this issue in the Commission, were representatives of local authorities also invited to talk about it, why are local authorities not fulfilling this task? What is the problem if the Government of the Republic says that this is a task for local governments, but the local authorities do not fulfil this task? Maybe we should start some kind of investigation here. What's the problem here, can you explain?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U46	Thank you. The idea that local authorities and school managers do not fulfil the obligation to provide support services must certainly not continue to sound. Absolutely not. They do. The extent to which they do so and the extent to which the people who do so are competent, and the kind of support that is still needed, is a separate issue, but they will certainly fulfil this obligation. In my opinion, too, under a somewhat confusing financing scheme, local authorities have so far been supported. If we undertake the current version of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act and its version, which was adopted during the previous term, we will see that the provision of support services in the Act is indeed left to the local authorities. What has been the debate somewhere, and the fact that the government has allocated money for it, is another question. There have been very in-depth discussions in the Commission on this subject, and they are going on. There have been opinions that municipalities could also use education support to organise support services, for example when teachers are guaranteed a minimum wage. Please! Let us agree, then, that we will use these resources to finance support professionals. But there have also been statements that this must not be done under any circumstances, and there must be a very clear principle: teachers' salaries are meant for teachers' pay, they must not be given elsewhere. The Ministry has defended such a pure principle and said that the state supports the municipalities by providing special education and psychological services in at least every county, and that even better systems, or support centres, are being established for the money of the European Union's support funds. So there's a lot of opinions. I guess when the Government of the Republic bill comes here, these disputes go on. But the idea that support services are not provided must certainly not continue to sound. Schoolkeepers are trying to guarantee them. It is a matter of course what services are provided and how well people are prepared to provide them.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U47	Thank you. Please, Lauri Laasi!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U48	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! I'm asking about funding support structures. Our task here should be to increase the opportunities for young people in the future rather than to reduce them. Don't you think that funding support structures, let's say, extreme uncertainty doesn't help create a future for every child that can be fatal to children in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U49	Thank you. This issue needs to be clarified. That's my short answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U50	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U51	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague Urmas, You said the Commission didn't agree with the Government of the Republic's multiple positions. It gives you hope. Do you agree to consider restoring grades so that there is still a junior teacher, a teacher, a senior teacher and a Methodist teacher? What do you think motivates the teacher to complement him now? Can this issue be re-negotiated?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U52	Thank you. Whether the Commission supports or does not support the positions of the Government of the Republic, I cannot say that in black and white, because we did not vote through these positions. I put it this way that the Commission also considered the positions of the Government of the Republic or the Ministry of Education and Research to be discussed. But are we going to reopen the basic school and upper secondary school law on the subject of grades? In this sense, it is an open issue that the Centre Party Group has tabled this proposal. So, of course, the debate will continue, but the amended basic school and upper secondary school law has been passed before Midsummer Day, the President has announced it and the invitation system is now being switched. The Commission's advisor also looked at the Teachers' Association's website this morning and provided us with information that the implementation of the system and the search for evaluators are ongoing. It's all working. I do not want to express my personal opinion, because then I would provide a good basis for a great debate. But I support the system of invitations rather than the system of grades.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U53	Thank you. Please, Urbo Vaarmann!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U54	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the Commission. An increasing number of students need additional support to study, provided in the school system by psychologists, special educators, logos and social pedagogues. Their funding is now placed on the responsibility of local authorities, which do not have the resources to do so. How do you assess the view that the basic school and upper secondary school law passed in the summer was made at the expense of the weakest students?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U55	Thank you. I already answered that question. But the principle is that according to the current law, this funding is really the responsibility of local governments. The Ministry of Education and Research does not recommend blurring responsibility and organisation of work. Municipalities have expressed the opinion that they need support in organising support services. It is up to the legislator to decide how to deal with this matter in the course of the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U56	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U57	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You rightly said that you must not give the impression that local authorities do not provide support specialist services, but rather that the question is how extensive and of what quality this service is. Good Urmas! When you go to schools, teachers say that there are few support specialists and that their preparation is inadequate. The problem is also that students are no longer as they were ten years ago, their behaviour has changed. Teachers don't know how to deal with students like that in class. They therefore have a double burden: they must teach the substance and also manage the organisation of the hour. It's a screaming problem. How do we solve this?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U58	Thank you. In the Committee on Culture, we have really discussed this issue very thoroughly. This has been a feature of many debates. We also discussed this when discussing teacher education. While the Committee on Culture formulated its proposals for teacher education for the Government of the Republic and universities, one point was that more attention should be paid to increasing general pedagogical competence in the preparation of teachers. This means that the teacher must not only know his subject very well but also be a good teacher in the sense that he is able to cope with the class. That's the answer to your question. However, it has also been discussed in the Commission that the organisation of support services must allow flexibility. Maybe we don't need so many support specialists at every school, maybe there's one support specialist over several schools. The local governments could work together here. But surely this service must be available, and it must still be provided near the school. More difficult and complicated cases could remain the preserve of the county advisory centres. Actually, the system is working right now. However, the nature of the problem, according to my understanding, is that since the state has so far given support funding to local authorities to run support services, the last time there was really talk about three million euros, this expectation persists. The question is how it will be answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U59	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U60	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! Although I promised to ask what I asked Malis whether the school leaders could pay out this 12% raise in January, but since Mailis said that even the minister did not know it, I am waiting a little bit on this question and I am asking a somewhat broader question. Ten years ago, I had the opportunity to work at school, not as a teacher, but as a leader of interest. As part of the school family, I saw all the changes that were made during the three years I was working at the school. In my opinion, education should be an area where changes are made very carefully, rather than a conservative area. But during the time I was able to work at the school, there were a lot of changes in the field of education. For example, state examinations became very important at school graduation and university entry. Now the Ministry of Education says that they are no longer very important and maybe we should review the whole system. There was also a change in the scoring system, there was 1 point, there were 20 points and there were 50 points. There's been a lot of changes. Why is that? Is it really just because you need to save money? Or are our children stupid?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U61	Thank you. I believe all the changers have been looking for the best possible school arrangements. There are certainly problems in education that need to be resolved. That's right. Our children may be particularly pleased with their results in the light of the latest PISA study, but that does not mean that we can rest on our laurels. The issue of graduating from school, part of which is state exams, has been on the agenda several times and will remain on the agenda. During the discussion of this draft, and also during the preparation of the basic school and upper secondary school law enacted before Midsummer Day, and in connection with the amendment of other laws, the Commission expressed its views that state examinations were not necessary at all, as school attendance is sufficient to complete the school. When assessing the outcome of the state examination, one or another subject may be assessed as being acquired in general education, but when entering university, the potential student should measure other characteristics, such as the motivation to study in the chosen field of study, his general intelligence, how he could succeed at the university. So that's what it sounds like. But it has been agreed that the system that is currently in operation must, by 20 January, if my memory does not deceive me, be selected for state examinations, in addition to having to take a school examination and a student study or practical work. We're working on this system right now. But, as they say, the most successful are those who can adapt to change.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U62	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U63	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, I didn't take part in the debate until now, but something unusually interesting sounded in the last response. I've been an examiner before, about 25,000 people have taken an exam at my place. I've been teaching for over a decade. In your response, the claim that you need to assess the overall intelligence of a future student when you enter university was stated. It makes you think seriously. How to measure intelligence is one of the biggest problems in sociology. Can you tell us what units this is measured and how this process is done if there are several dozen people in the reception room? It's so very interesting, not just for me, but for the whole world.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U64	Thank you. Indeed, it is so interesting that no good solution has been found and several systems are in place. The Committee on Culture did not discuss this issue during the preparation of this draft. But universities and even faculties have different admission arrangements and ways of testing student candidates.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U65	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U66	Thank you. Dear waitress, You didn't answer my question. Yes, it may not have been discussed in the Committee on Culture, but if you mentioned it and that is your opinion, then you should also find an answer. I myself saw 20 years ago when a young man at the pedagogical institute could not answer the exam when Jesus Christ died in the old age. We have all read that the graduate of the University of Tartu did not know the difference between Martin Luther and Martin Luther King and thought that Jan Hus was an Estonian or someone like that. That means I don't think there was an intelligence check before. So I'll come back to the question. How do you think that's supposed to happen on the entrance exams? I thought you said you could do that.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U67	I said this, and I say it again, that it was pointed out in the debate that we also have different systems and ways of choosing students and what must be considered and measured when going to university, whether in particular factual knowledge or willingness, motivation to study in the chosen field of study, including indeed the intelligence of the student candidate. I repeat, there are various practices. The journalism profession of the University of Tartu uses other ways than the Faculty of Physics, for example, and this is very good. I do not consider it so important that we start discussing what an autonomous university is doing specifically. Let them do their own work.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-14_U68	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you, Urmas Glass! Let's get to the negotiations. The political groups have no wish to speak. The Commission's proposal is that the first reading of draft 477 should be completed. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of 477 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 28 January. Ladies and gentlemen, Our agenda today has been exhausted. Closure of the sitting at 11.15 a.m.
