ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good colleagues, good morning! We will begin the session of the fifth working week of the seventh plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U2	Dear colleagues, today we have a pleasant opportunity to listen to the oath of office of member of the Supreme Court, Saale Laos. I ask him to come to the Riigikogu Chair to take this oath!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U3	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I pledge to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. I pledge to exercise justice according to my conscience in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Estonia. Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U4	Good fellows! I now ask the members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over the drafts or inquiries! First Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U5	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, I have a question to be made by the members of the Central Party Group to the Minister for Social Affairs regarding the rates of disability benefit for people of old age. They are calculated on the basis of the social benefit rate for persons with disabilities, which is €25.57 this year. For lighter trees, 50% is paid, 105% is paid for severe trees, i.e. EUR 12.79 and EUR 26.85 respectively. You try to live with that! Everyone lives what they can do. But our electorate's wishes are the basis for this inquiry. I'm going to read an extract from a letter that has come. Writes Maie, 63 years old, and writes: "I'm a little old, I have a disability, and I'm not sure I want to deal with this anymore. You can't live with that. Would you be so sympathetic that you would remind the Minister that the current EUR 26 heavy disability allowance is even less than the kroon was? You can't go on like that. Personally, I cry pillows and pray. But would that help? Every day tomorrow is dirtier than yesterday, and does God change it in heaven or anyone? But remind the Minister! " Such a letter. And here we have three questions concerning the level of benefits paid to people with disabilities of retirement age. We ask the Minister for Social Affairs for an answer! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U6	Inara Luigas speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I am going to refer an inquiry to Minister of Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas. The inquiry is about the state's activities in implementing the Health Information System. In 2006, the state started to set up an eHealth Information System with four main projects: digital history, digital prescription, digital registration and digital image. The main objectives of the introduction of the entire information system have been to improve the health system, improve the quality of treatment and increase patient-centredity. The National Audit Office audited the state's activities in setting up the e-health information system and assessed whether the objectives of e-health have been met by a better quality healthcare service and a more effective health management system. As a result of the audit, the National Audit Office concluded that the objective of e-health has not been achieved, as the data in the system cannot be used for medical work, the production of national statistics, the maintenance of registers or monitoring. Only digital recipes are actively used, but the use of digital history and image link has remained modest and digital registration has not started either. According to the National Audit Office, the weak start-up of e-health is due to unintended and occasional activities of the Ministry of Social Affairs. The Ministry must represent the interests of the state, but in e-health management it has been rather an observer. Due to the Health Services Organisation Act, where the Ministry of Social Affairs is responsible for all these projects, we have six questions for the Minister of Social Affairs. My good penguin, Lembit Kaljuvee, has also signed this inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U8	Good fellows! I have adopted two inquiries on behalf of the Bureau, according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Bureau will decide on their further procedure. Let's go to the messages now. Tomorrow, Wednesday, 19 February, the following members of the government will attend Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder and Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded an inquiry into the members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas. Now, let's go through the presence check. 86 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 15. Dear colleagues, pursuant to Article 73 (1) of our Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the sitting is not opening the debate on the first item today, because the rapporteur from the author is not in the Chamber. Thus, the first 543 readings of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Proposal for the Government of the Republic" submitted by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party will not take place.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U9	We move to the second item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the decision of the Riigikogu on the establishment of an Estonian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, tabled by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, 587. I ask Margus Hanson, member of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U10	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, By decision of the Riigikogu of 10 May 2011, the Estonian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe was formed, consisting of three main members and three alternates. The main members are Mr Andres Herkel, the head of the delegation, Mr Margus Hanson and Mr Mailis Reps, and the alternate members Paul-Eerik Rummo, Mr Indrek Saar and Ms Ester Tuiksoo. By decision of 16 April 2013, Maret Maripuu was appointed an alternate member of the delegation in place of Mr Paul-Eerik Rummo. In view of the fact that the political groups had submitted new candidates to the delegation, at their meeting on 28 January, the Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed the amendment of the composition of the Estonian delegation of the Assembly as follows: The proposal of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union was to present Liisa-Ly Pakosta as the head of the delegation instead of Andres Herkel, and the Group of the Estonian Reform Party proposed that Ms Maret Maripuu, who had left the Riigikogu, be replaced by Ms Rait Maruste as the alternate member of the delegation. The Committee on Foreign Affairs decided to support these proposals and set the deadline of 7 February at 4 a.m. No amendments were tabled within this deadline. On 10 February, the Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed this issue again and decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu Board that this draft be placed on the agenda of the Tuesday, 18 February session, to propose that the first reading be closed and that the draft be adopted as a decision. The rapporteur for the Committee on Foreign Affairs was appointed here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U11	Thank you, good waitress. You have at least one question. Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U12	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! I've known Andres Herkel for a few decades as an active politician. It is certainly a person who has a heart in the right place and who has dealt with Estonia with a lot of soul. What did he do now, then, that he needed to be recalled from the honorable place where he is accepted internationally, today, on a very controversial day for Estonia? Is there any reason to look for signs here, or has he really done something that is no longer suitable for this profession?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U13	You don't have to look for any signs today. This is a proposal from the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, since Andres Herkel has left their group.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U14	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U15	Thank you. Does the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe require all national delegates to belong to a political party?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U16	I believe that this is a matter of our internal organisation and we in the Riigikogu can decide for ourselves the composition of our delegation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U17	Väino Linde, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U18	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! It is probably a good time for all of us to refresh and specify what the Estonian delegation is doing in this Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. What could be his duties there?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U19	Our task is to represent Estonia with dignity in this dignified organisation. The three main members of our delegation and the three alternates have been more active than average. This has been confirmed by members of other delegations. Our activity must have been different at different times. When times were revolutionary, there was a need to be alert at every moment. It doesn't matter now, but it does. And indeed, Andres Herkel has excelled and has led our delegation very well. But time goes on and new challenges come to new and old leaders.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U20	No, I do not have a group mandate. But since my name was named, I can take the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U21	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? Andres Herkel, please! Do you have the authority of any political group?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U22	That's how we negotiate. But the negotiations didn't mention your name, they named questions-answers. Unfortunately, I can't give you the floor. No negotiations will be opened. Eiki Nestor, a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U23	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Andres Herkel will act as a representative of the Social Democratic Party Group. If that's all right with you, I'll write a warrant right away.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U24	I asked Andres Herkel when he wanted to come here to the Riigikogu Chair to see if he had the authority of any political group to represent them. Andres Herkel said he didn't have that authority. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U25	Yeah, it wasn't, now it is. [[Laughter.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U26	Good co-worker, you heard me closing the negotiations. The minute Andres Herkel came here, I asked if he had a warrant. He said he didn't have a warrant. Aivar Riisalu, please! If you don't have a microphone, Eiki Nestor, please! [[Laughter.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U27	Aivar Riisalu, I just gave my word to Eiki Nestor, and I'm so sorry! Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U28	I have a microphone now. I have a very clear procedural question. We could be here...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U29	Good manager! I was able to raise my hand just before you closed the negotiations. I'm sorry I didn't react fast enough!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U30	Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U31	Thank you. I am not at all satisfied with the parliamentary practice that a person who is not a member of a political group cannot speak on a question concerning him, even if one of the political groups in the Riigikogu has found an opportunity to give him the power to speak. Today, on a very groundbreaking day for Estonia, we should look our lives in the face and give people the freedom to speak at least when it comes to the subject that concerns them themselves. If not, I fear that democracy in Estonia is in great danger.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U32	Thank you. You will have the opportunity to submit a draft amendment to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act tomorrow at two o'clock at the beginning of the session in order to improve this law. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U33	Thank you, Mr President. It's a procedural question because my name was called. I do not think that such a restriction is appropriate that the only member of the Riigikogu who is a political group at first reading of the draft does not get the floor. I will take this opportunity to say very briefly what I want to say. I would like to thank the previous Group of the IRL and the former Group of the Fatherland Alliance for the confidence they have shown in me. I have been in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe for ten and a half years, most of which as chairman of the Estonian delegation. I would also like to thank all the members of the delegation, both former and present, and certainly Tanja Espet, the secretary of the delegation. We also had a debate yesterday in the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the work of the delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Marko Mihkelson summed it up very nicely: it is an external delegation and it is an assembly where passions are highest. There are separate country reports, and this also creates very sharp opposition. As a result, the work of the Assembly is often tense. We do not see it here, but the democrats in the countries with which we have cooperation, Ukraine, Georgia and others, see it very well. I also call on the leaders of the political groups to evaluate this work and to understand that members of the Riigikogu have obligations to fulfil outside Estonia. This is extremely important to our partners in Ukraine and Georgia, as well as to democrats in the Russian Federation and other countries in the East. The Estonian delegation has fulfilled this role well, and I am quite sure that it will continue to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U34	Thank you for this procedural question. I don't know now, good fellow Eiki Nestor, what I'm gonna do. Your co-worker was able to say what he wanted in the context of the procedural question. Your request is here, will you take it back, or what do we do? [[Eiki Nestor's answer is not audible.]] Thank you. The commission has also proposed a final vote at first reading. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. No amendments to the draft law 587 were received. Can we go to the vote? I will put the draft decision to the final vote on 587. Please take a stand and vote. 56 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 1 against and no abstentions. The draft decision of the Riigikogu, tabled by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, amending the decision of the Riigikogu on the establishment of the Estonian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, 587 has been adopted as a decision. The second item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U35	Let us move on to the third item on the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft Act amending the Packaging Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 568. I ask Valeri Korbi, member of the Environment Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U36	Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Packaging Act was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 13 January this year. The first reading took place in this Chamber on 29 January and the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 10 a.m. on 6 February. No amendments were tabled. During the period between first and second reading, the draft has been dealt with once at the meeting of the committee: on Monday, 10 February, the Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu discussed this issue. The third item on the agenda was "To send the draft law amending the Package Act to second reading." Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of the Environment, Mr. Liv, and Chief Specialist of the Waste Department, Marika Sihtas, were invited to the meeting of the Commission. Following a meeting in which there were no questions, the Commission decided to put the draft on the agenda for the plenary session on 18 January, to propose that the second reading be closed and, when the second reading is closed, to send the draft to third reading by 20 February 2014 and then to hold a final vote. All these decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U37	Good colleagues, do you have any questions? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. We could therefore go to the examination of the 568 amendments to the draft, but they were not received. The position of the commission is to conclude the second reading. The second reading is closed and the third item is also dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U38	Let us move on to the fourth item on the agenda, which is the continuation of the second reading of the draft law amending the Defence Union Act, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group, 458. I ask Lauri Vahtre, Member of the National Defence Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U39	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! The draft under discussion was initiated by the Group of the Social Democratic Party on 20 June last year. The first reading was completed on 7 November last year. The second reading was interrupted by the initiator on 12 December. No proposals were submitted to the lead committee outside the deadline of 31 December 2013. The Commission itself tabled two amendments to the draft as the lead committee. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to second reading at its meeting on 28 January and 10 February. Neeme Suur, a member of the Riigikogu, participated in the meeting on 28 January. The Head of the General Department of the General Staff of the Defence League, Lea Vaba, and Brigadier General Meelis Kiili, also participated, who introduced the Defence League's proposal, according to which young people aged 16 to 18 could also be members of the youth organisations of the Defence League. This proposal was also supported by the Youth Eagle Central Assembly, the Home Daughters Central Assembly and the Defence League Central Council. At the meeting of the National Defence Committee on 28 January, it was specified that Estonian stateless young people could only belong to the youth organisations of the Defence League. It was found that there had been some kind of circumvention. In the mid-term debate, the Commission was concerned about a possible solution that Estonian stateless young people, as members of the youth organisation as proposed by the initiator of the draft, will also have the right to be members of the Defence League's chess, cyber defence unit or Women's Home Protection, who are already directly involved in national defence. This conflict was resolved by finding a way in which young people who are not Estonian citizens can still belong to the ranks of the Young Eagles and Daughters, but only there. At this meeting, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to support the Defence League's proposal to allow young people residing in Estonia to join the youth organisations of the Defence League. Aivar Engel, the Head of the Adviser-Secretariat, was also obliged by the National Defence Commission to draw up an amendment to that effect by the National Defence Committee. Ms Marianne Mikko, Member of the Commission, represented the initiator of the draft at the meeting of the Commission on 10 February. At this meeting, the Commission adopted the Commission's amendments by 7 votes to 1. The initiator of the draft act supports the amendments proposed by the Commission. The rapporteur was appointed here. The total number of amendments is two. The first of these states that Estonian citizens aged 7 to 18 and other natural persons living permanently in Estonia can be a young member of the Defence League. Young members who are not Estonian citizens may only belong to youth organisations. Amendment 2 is technical and eliminates one unnecessary repetition that would otherwise have arisen in the text of the law. This is about the fact that those stateless Estonian young people who, in the meantime, as if a legal hole had arisen should have been excluded from the special organisation of the Defence League will be reinstated retroactively as members of the youth organisation. That way, they don't get a hole in the stairwell. On 10 February, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to submit a draft for the continuation of second reading on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu by 18 February and to propose the termination of the second reading. The National Defence Committee also decided by consensus that when the second reading was completed, the third reading and the final vote could take place on 25 February 2014. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U40	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. We will examine the amendments to draft 458. Two amendments have been received, both from the lead committee. Amendment 1, Amendment 2. We have examined the amendments. The position of the commission is to conclude the second reading. The second reading is closed and the fourth item is also dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U41	Let us move on to the fifth item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft amendment to § 4 of the Income Tax Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group 548. I ask Urve Palo, member of the Riigikogu, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U42	Good afternoon, Mr President-in-Office and ladies and gentlemen. Nine years ago, on August 30, 2005, Rein Taagepera wrote that the demographic hole was a hole with a hole in the bottom. Like on the toilet. "In ten years' time, the number of births will fall again sharply, as the number of men and women of childbearing age will also fall sharply. If they have as few children as their current parents, the number of births will fall to 10,000. Instead of a million Estonians, the population will then begin to grow to 600,000 until 25 years later we fall to the next spike of the toilet. August can climb out. It's unreachable to drop a hole in a hole. When the number of births reaches its peak before it falls again in ten years, it's up to us. The next fall can no longer be avoided because future parents have already been born. Or not born. If, in the meantime, our attitudes change so much that the number of children increases to the level of reproduction (which is 2.3 children per man and woman), the people will be able to survive another decline. Otherwise, we'll flush ourselves. We are already on the verge of critical mass in order to maintain a high culture in our own language in continental Europe. 600,000 do not allow it." I've used Rein Taagepera's graphic example of a demographic toilet, and I did it again. It's just so clearly and well described. These are processes that have taken place in Estonia in the last nine years. We fall gradually, sorry for the expression, but as the professor says, down the toilet and flush ourselves. You may think that the politician, of course, is demagogueing again. That's not how the numbers speak for themselves. Ladies and gentlemen, you know very well that as members of the Riigikogu, representatives of the people cannot have any more important task than to stand up for the Estonian state, language, culture here in Estonia to remain and develop, so that we can be here in decades, hundreds and more years. We very often hear the saying that we cannot deal with people now, with children, before the economy needs to be repaired. The economy has been repaired for the last nine years since the professor warned us. However, economic order has not been achieved. The Estonian economy fell in the last quarter of last year, in contrast to the rise of our neighbouring countries, Latvia and Lithuania. Does this not show eloquently that the economy cannot be repaired if there are no "good" people? If we do not invest in people, we do not care about them, we do not wonder whether there are jobs on the ground, whether families have confidence that they can have children, then the economy will not develop either. Very often we hear people say that there is nothing we can do if people do not give birth and love cannot be bought, but children are born out of love. Yes, it's true, children are born of love, at least that's how it should be. But isn't the same economic and social policy that forces people to leave Estonia so that daily bread is on the table an obstacle that love can also be rewarded with the birth of children? Officially, more than 30,000 Estonian people already live in Finland. Does that not mean that in these families, children are either not born or are less than desired? Because there is no confidence that the family father will return from Finland tomorrow. Families live apart, and this, of course, does not contribute to family security. And it must be taken into account that these more than 30,000 people, and I am only talking about Finland, the other countries not yet, are largely women in childbirth and the best-viable men. The country can also contribute to love. We are asked why children are still not born, although the desire to have more than two children still exists in Estonia. It is relatively unique in Europe that families want more than two children on average. In many countries of southern Europe, and also in Russia, there is no longer any such wish. It is difficult to contribute to the desire, but if there is a desire, it is relatively easy to help make it happen. There's just gotta be good will. In 2008, the Office of the Minister of Population commissioned a study "Estonian factors influencing the birth." Since then, no study has been carried out on this subject, and the situation has not changed much either. When people were asked what are the factors that would affect them to have children or to have them more, three key factors were clearly identified. 50% of respondents said that the biggest obstacle is too little material support from the state. Secondly, there was the fear that there were not enough kindergarten places. People also want to reconcile work and family life in Estonia. And thirdly, the fear of not being able to provide children with adequate education was highlighted. A few weeks ago, in Question Time, I told the Prime Minister that these factors are an obstacle and that the Estonian state could quite simply contribute to increasing the birth rate. The Prime Minister only took hold of the third reason. He said that he did not believe that it could be an obstacle to people's fear that they would not be able to provide a good education. We have such good results on the PISA test. Didn't the Prime Minister want to understand or doesn't he really understand? Either way, it's bad. This isn't about PISA tests. It's about whether a person senses that yes, I can guarantee my child the best, he can go to the circle of interest. Hobby education is part of education, but it is now largely on the parent's wallet. Does the kid get fed up at school? Can I get him some clothes and stuff to go to school? Can he and his classmates go on birthdays and tours? This is all a package when it comes to education. The second argument referred to in Estonia is that there are not many children born elsewhere. It's like it's an excuse. And that's not true, or it's half true. Yes, the countries of southern Europe, the republics of the former Soviet Union, also have a low birth rate. But if we look at what the family policy measures are and if they exist at all, we will see that they are the way we are going here: the whole society is not in favour of reconciling work and family life. However, there too, women want to work alongside their children. It is paradoxical that in countries where female employment is higher, on average more children are born per woman. A simple explanation: women want to link work and family life, and if they cannot do so, then the second or third child, perhaps the first child, will not be born. I'm coming back to the kindergarten places. In Estonia, only 10 million euros per year would be needed to restart the "Children's Centre for Every Child" programme. Ten million! Our budget is $8 billion. I ask whether we do not have the means to do so or whether we do not have the will. We found an opportunity in Estonia to increase defence costs to 2% of the total production of the economy, because we had this will. However, we do not find money to increase child support. At the moment, one child receives EUR 19.18 per month. This amount has lasted the same ten years! Even Santa was joking about it at the end of the year right here on the speaker's desk, saying that it's nice that there's at least something in life that doesn't change at all. But of course it was irony. In Estonia, support for families accounts for half a percent of the total economic output, compared to 0.5%. If we put in more parental benefits, which are not classic family benefits, we get 1.5%. At the same time, in countries with a much higher birth rate than in Estonia, such as the Nordic countries, Finland, Norway, Denmark, Sweden, Iceland, France and Ireland, the share of family benefits in GDP is 3%. Depending on the country, it is either a little less or a little more than 3%. But what have we done in the last nine years since Professor Rein Taagepera warned us? It is true that all these nine years have been high in women of childbearing age. Also, the desire to become a family of over two children exists. It's not too late! But soon these women will be out of fertile age, and the generations who were born after the 1990s will be 10,000 smaller each year. Let me name some numbers. Before the 1990s, 23000 to 24000 children were born each year. After the 1990s, it began to shrink. At present, nearly 10,000 fewer children are born each year: about 14000. For those who were born before the 1990s and still have a childbearing age, state policy could still have an impact. What have we done in nine years? We have lost the old-age pension, while in the event of a child's illness 80% of the parent's salary will be reimbursed instead of 100% of the previous one. Upper secondary school children still cannot eat free of charge at the expense of the state. The "Children's Place for Every Child" programme has been completed. In spite of promises, there has been no return to education in the field of interest. Child benefit still stands for the first and second children of the family. And child support is essentially transformed into poverty support. To get a little more than EUR 19 per month for the first and second children, the family must first fall into poverty and then prove it every three months. Then we'll get a little more, like, nine euros. I'm afraid we can't talk about any certainty here. For this reason, the Social Democrats in their draft law propose that the planned reduction of personal income tax next year be avoided by 1%. As a result, we could win the circa 80 million euros into the state budget. This is the solution for all those who say that they really want to support children, but there is no money. Money has not run out of the world or Estonia. There are other ways to improve measures aimed at children. I have calculated that if we do all of this, triple the child benefit, pay a cartoon allowance to a single child, restore the kindergarten program and pay for school food until the end of the upper secondary school, the country would need an additional EUR 150 million a year. 150 million at an 8 billion budget! I'll come back to our bill. So I propose that the income tax should not be reduced by a percentage so that the same money can increase the allowance for the first and second children from EUR 19.18 to EUR 42.48 per month. With a 1% reduction in income tax, the recipient of the minimum wage wins 1 euro, teacher circa 6 euros, member of the Riigikogu on average 31 euros and prime minister 48 euros per month. Do you really need this extra income for a member of the Riigikogu and the Prime Minister? By lowering income tax, we give gifts primarily to high-wage earners, as can be seen from this work. By paying child benefit, we support all children equally; all families with children win in the same way. In particular, high-income people will benefit from a reduction in income tax. An increase in child benefit to 48 euros per month would bring more than 57 euros per month to the family of two children compared to today. In total, the budget of a two-child family would be increased by nearly 700 euros a year. Dear Members, Child benefits have increased for 10 years, not because there is no money, but because there has been no will. Please show goodwill and support this bill. As a result, EUR 80 million could be devoted to improving the well-being of families with children. As I said at the beginning, there should be nothing more important for the ambassadors than the good performance and viability of the Estonian state in the coming decades, but without the people there is no viability, the economy will not develop. I propose not to lower the income tax on the individual in 2015 and, as a result, to channel the money saved for the benefit of families with children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U43	Thank you. We're going to ask questions. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U44	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, You can't imagine how deeply I feel for you, but one thing is distracting me from being with you to the end. I'm looking at this bill. It consists of two pages, the second is an explanatory statement. The explanatory memorandum is about increasing family benefits, I see a schedule here and so on. But the only thing that matters is this first page. When the vote is adjourned, the second page goes into the trash. The first page, however, goes to law if approved, the government receives EUR 80 million and decides what to do with it. Why can't I see the law of child love or the law of naughty growth or anything else that would prove that the money really is going to be what you were talking about? That's not what's in it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U45	I believe that the draft law on love of children or a positive draft law can be presented by a respected MP, you have the opportunity to do so. My support will probably be on it, but of course I need to get to know it first. As far as our group's draft is concerned, according to the law, it is simply that it cannot be written down here where the money is directed exactly. You can say that in the explanatory memorandum.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U46	Thank you. Please, Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U47	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Allowances for families with children are undoubtedly an important part of the cost of the state budget, and keeping them at the current level must be considered important and, if necessary, increased. But I have a question for you. The Social Democratic Party Group proposed to increase the tax-free minimum. This would have cost EUR 70 to 120 million depending on the year, and you saw the same loss of income tax as it is currently on the agenda as a source of cover. I have specifically asked you about this before, and you have shunned the answer. Let me ask you again: have you decided where you want this so-called income tax money to go?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U48	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U49	We are currently dealing with the draft law amending § 4 of the Income Tax Act and the explanatory memorandum states this objective very clearly. We want individual income tax to be left behind by 1% and so the money generated will be directed towards improving the well-being of families with children.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U50	Thank you. Like I said, this other part of your wish is not going to cost anything. To offer your colleagues in this Chamber that if you want to do what we want you to do, make a law like this, it's some kind of strange logic. I'm not going to discuss this, there's not much time. I would like to ask you whether you knew this or whether it is news to you that it could have been arranged in such a way that a draft amendment to § 4 of the Income Tax Act, to the Social Security Act, to the Family Benefits Act and to other laws was submitted. That's the chance you had. Then I wouldn't have climbed out with my questions. Everything would have been clear. Why did you come up with a bill that doesn't even answer what you said in your speech here in 15 minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U51	First of all, thank you for being in the hall and listening! I am very grateful for this! As you can see, most of the right-hand part of the hall is empty. You listened very carefully, I noticed. I am very grateful for this and for your tips! Now it's only the first reading of the law. Everyone has the opportunity to propose improvements and this could be one of them.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U52	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much, Urve Palo. I would like to ask Aivar Sõerdi, Member of the Monetary Committee for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U53	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee discussed the draft amendment to § 4 of the Income Tax Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group at its meeting on 11 February. At the meeting of the Commission, Eiki Nestor presented the draft as the representative of the initiators. He explained that the aim of the draft was to abolish the planned reduction in the income tax rate from 2015 and to increase family allowances with the resulting national budget. The opinion of the Government of the Republic was presented and the questions about the position of the Government were answered by Elo Madiste, chief specialist of the tax policy department of the Ministry of Finance. I will now give an overview of the Commission's debate. First of all, Elo Madiste presented the decision taken at the meeting of the Government of the Republic of Estonia on 19 December 2013 not to support this draft. The government's main arguments are as follows: The reduction in income tax has been a long-term tax policy objective, which was already enshrined in the Income Tax Act in 2006. This promise has had to be postponed because of the economic crisis, but it would be a word-breaking withdrawal in the current situation and could mean going against the principle of legal certainty. Secondly, lowering the tax rate will reduce the tax burden on all taxpayers and thus also help to cope with families with children. The need and opportunities for increasing public family benefits will continue to be assessed and increased if appropriate sources of coverage are available. During the Commission's debate, the following topics were discussed: First of all, the question arose of how it would be possible to increase family allowances if this draft did not specifically provide for these changes. This is basically the same question that has just been put here by my colleague, Mr Stalnukhin. The originator explained that they were intended to be introduced by a separate law. The Commission also addressed the principle of legal certainty and legitimacy. At the heart of the debate was the question of the conditions under which it would be possible to change the regulation already proposed, without it seemed to be a word-writing with regard to the norm address. The practice of the Supreme Court in this respect was also briefly discussed. The speaker asked the question that our neighbouring countries have recently strongly reduced income tax and how this development could affect our competitive position. It was also a question of how the budget impact of EUR 80 million has been calculated. Following the debate, the Committee on Monetary Affairs proposed to put the draft on the plenary agenda today and to appoint a rapporteur here. Both decisions were consensual. Third, the Committee on Monetary Affairs proposed to reject the draft. There were 5 members in favour and 4 members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs against it, with no abstentions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U54	Thank you. Let's go to asking questions. Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U55	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I have a question for you as a renowned finance expert. You asked Urve Palo earlier about the financing of child benefits and said, among other things, that these allowances could be increased. We will look at the development plan for children and families until 2020 and look at the green books that have been made on this basis! My question is based on the country's budget strategy for 2014‐2017. The draft law on child protection is now coming into the procedure of the Riigikogu. The Minister of Finance did not coordinate this by adding a note that there is no money for this. Where, then, will the children receive money if there is no more money for children in the state budget until 2017?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U56	The country's budgetary strategy will be updated every year, and this will also be done this year after the spring forecast has come up. But money to increase both family benefits and other benefits comes from the economy, as do other social costs. The author of the bill here earlier said that the economy is not, like, at all important, that we are only talking about spending. But it can't be that money just comes from somewhere. Money still comes from taxpayers, comes from our economy. And the costs can be increased due to the development of our economy and the added value and opportunities created by it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U57	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U58	Thank you, Madam President. The rapporteur from the Commission. The one percent reduction in personal income tax from an entrepreneurial point of view has no impact on the financial situation and the business environment of companies. But I ask you, Aivar, would your worldview match such a decision not to make that tax percentage and at the same time raise the rate of taxable income, which would amount to about 80 million? Is that okay with you?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U59	My understanding of the global economy, as well as of our economic prospects, is that we need to take into account the competitive situation in which we are in. You argued that reducing the tax rate by 1% means nothing to businesses. Yes, it does! And I am very concerned about the developments that have taken place in the countries that we often set an example for ourselves. I am thinking of our closest neighbours Sweden and Finland. These are the countries in which the decision was made, and I am quite sure that, precisely with the aim of reviving the economy, the rate of corporate tax will be reduced by a strong, even 4% reduction. This is certainly the argument that we should stick to the earlier decision to lower the income tax rate from 2015 onwards.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U60	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U61	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! You have mentioned the legitimate expectation, even several times, of legitimate expansion in English. This probably means that the parties to proceedings invest and direct their economic activities in good faith in accordance with their expectations. And their expectations should not be violated, as in a reasonable time. We are now in February 2014. Would it be a very unreasonable time for us not to lower this rate of income tax from 2015?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U62	Thank you for your question. I mentioned legitimate expectations because I am a rapporteur from the Commission and this issue was addressed in the Commission. But I can refer to one of the Supreme Court's judgments, which states that "the principle of legitimate expectation also extends to the regulation adopted and published without reservations, but not yet applicable. The principle of legitimate expectations does not merely mean a restriction on the power of the State, but allows it to be linked in such a way that individuals are given a promise and certainty about the rules that will be in force in the future and that they are directed to plan their activities in the long term, including by encouraging investment. " This is the Supreme Court ruling 3-4-1-27-13. It is available on the website of the Supreme Court and I would advise you to examine it if you are interested in this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U63	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U64	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Indeed, you mentioned a contradiction with the principle of legal certainty that would arise under this law. However, this was not an obstacle when compensation for student loans was stopped. But here's my question. How do you personally feel about whether the principle of justice and solidarity coincides with that we members of the Riigikogu are about to receive 40 euros per month more? Was that what the Commission was talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U65	Thank you. Please, Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U66	When I once asked Urve Palo about a source of cover where they were taking money for another great thing, Urve Palo replied that we were not discussing the state budget here. I will also answer you in such a way that we are not currently discussing issues relating to these fees.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U67	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good performer, first of all thanks for quoting me, I feel more important. But that's the kind of thing I'm asking. Your product and government provide one reason why child support cannot be increased and income tax cannot be reduced by a percentage, that we have high labour taxes in Estonia. It is true that the income tax rate in Estonia is not high for an individual, but high for a social tax. And if we do not invest in children and if children are not born, is it not the case that, in future, we will have even less money for pension payments and the social tax rate will increase instead? Isn't that right, before the egg and then the chicken?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U68	Thank you. Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U69	Thank you for this question, but the answer to it comes out of the format of my report. I cannot rely on the Commission's debate here because we did not deal with your draft from this point of view. But we really do have high taxes on labour. This is a problem and a serious concern for our competitiveness. Once again, a 20% reduction in income tax reduces the tax burden on labour and solves this problem a little.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U70	Thank you. You said that if the added value created by the economy increases, you could start thinking about increasing universal child benefits. Since then, I am sure that many Estonian families have gone to Finland with their children. Do you know that the Finnish state currently also pays child benefit to Estonian children to a large extent? For example, if the father works in Finland and the mother does not work in Estonia, the family benefit is paid from Finland. And there is another model where the difference between Estonian child benefit and Finnish child benefit is paid. If we don't act now, maybe after a while we won't have the space to operate in.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U71	Thank you. The question was multiplicity, I'd start from the beginning. Your introduction was misleading, I have not promoted universal child support. But yes, as a member of the Committee on Social Affairs, you certainly have a good idea of the child benefit systems and rates in our neighbouring countries, including Finland. So you can compare systems from different countries. The Estonian state pays family allowances according to its own possibilities. Certainly, the adequacy of these grants must be assessed on an ongoing basis and, if necessary and possible, increased, there is no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U72	Thank you. Dear colleague Aivar, maybe you're educating me a little bit. Please specify how a percentage reduction in personal income tax will affect the financial position of the company! Is there any way you can comment on that? I think it would be much more effective if we reduced the corporate tax rate. For example, the neighbours of the Latvians have 15%, and the banks are also paying for it. Wouldn't that be much more effective?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U73	Thank you. Please, Rannar Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U74	Thank you, good questioner! This draft, which we are currently discussing, actually recommends increasing both the personal income tax rate and the corporate tax rate by 1% from 2015. In any case, this affects businesses. We compare our position with that of neighbouring countries in a situation where Finland reduced the corporate tax rate to 20%, or 4%, and Sweden also to 4% to 21%. This is in any case a fact that we need to take into account when designing our tax policy if we want Estonia to be an attractive country where it is appropriate and advantageous to make investments and create jobs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U75	Thank you. I understand that the position taken by the Government of the Republic on this draft law set out the principle of legal certainty. How do you feel, good Aivar Sõerd, how has the Government of the Republic, who is very clearly trying to play the role of defender of fundamental rights, managed to follow this principle over the years?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U76	I do not at all question this argument, which refers to a contradiction with the principle of legal certainty. If your bill were to pass through the Riigikogu, it would certainly be a problem. There is an obvious contradiction with the current Supreme Court rulings. So much for the legal part. As far as the content is concerned, you are a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs and you are communicating with businesses and you know that businesses have business plans. Suppose the company operates here on the Estonian market and has taken into account that the tax rate from 2015 is 20%. If the state suddenly changes the rules of the game, the company's business plan will not be realised. This is a substantive problem and you should understand it as a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U77	Thank you. Please, Jüri Morozov!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U78	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! You explained in your presentation that the percentage reduction in personal income tax is long planned, that people expect it and that these expectations need to be met. Neither you nor the Reform Party have been just as principled when it comes to raising taxes. It's been done overnight. Let me remind you, for example, of the increase in VAT. Does this kind of rape and total inconsistency in politics indicate that you are out of your mind how to organise taxation in Estonia? Or what's the problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U79	There is no point in starting to compare different tax laws, decisions taken at different times and in different situations. This debate and clarification of these decisions would go well beyond the format of the Commission's report. However, in any case, the draft 548 that we are currently discussing runs counter to the principle of legal certainty. This is one of the problems we addressed in the Commission, and also one of the reasons why it has been decided not to support the draft. But the reasons why this bill is not supported are far more than this legal argument.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U80	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U81	Dear Co-Rapporteur! If you read these decisions of the Supreme Court, it states that legitimate expectations should not be violated by a tax amendment that has been made at least one year before its entry into force, but in certain specific cases this period could be at least six months. Does the co-rapporteur have any other decisions of the Supreme Court that differ from them? If this law is passed in the spring, it fits exactly under the legal decision of the Supreme Court, so that the taxes can be changed six months before the date of entry into force.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U82	Honourable questioner! I suggest you better analyse these Supreme Court decisions. It's not exactly what you said. In any case, this would be an obstacle to legal certainty, I am quite sure of it. Once again: it concerns businesses in particular, but also all individual taxpayers, of course. However, from an entrepreneur's point of view, if the business plan is still made by calculating that our tax rate will be 20% from next year, the business plan will no longer work in practice once the tax environment has been changed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U83	Thank you. Please, Rannar Vasiliev, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U84	Thank you. I will move on to the very subject of legal certainty, which must not be affected in any way by tax changes. You mentioned the business plan for entrepreneurs. In fact, the income tax at issue is relatively limited to the business plans. This affects them much less than, for example, VAT. And very many companies are subject to a wide range of resource charges, as are input VAT on passenger cars. Income tax only comes into play in the current tax system when dividends are distributed. There's no way to put this fundamental trick into business. But my question is about the time frame within which the principle of legal certainty would not be violated by changing taxes. It doesn't mean everything that's in the law has to stay the same forever, does it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U85	Thank you for your question. I do not agree with you that a reduction of 1% means nothing. Yes, it does. And the dividends you mentioned, we have been taxed higher than our southern neighbours. In Latvia, as far as I know, the dividend tax rate is 15%, which is much lower. Today, according to the current law, we still have a situation such that the 20% tax rate would also have an impact on the amount of dividends. As far as this comparison is concerned, you have made a comparison with VAT and car taxes, I would still rely on the authoritative OECD estimates that high income taxes are the most detrimental to entrepreneurship. On this scale, labour taxes will come next, then indirect taxes and environmental charges. The ends of this scale are not of the same weight and income tax is considered to be the most disincentive to business and to the economy at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U86	Thank you. Please, Urve Palo, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U87	Thank you. Good waitress! Listening to you gives the impression that our government coalition is selectively principled. You say that it is not possible to exclude income tax by 1%, because it has been decided and decisions are not changed. At the same time, the government association had written in the coalition agreement that from 2014 money from children's interest groups would apply. However, when it was put together in the autumn of last year, it was decided that no round money would be allocated. How do you comment on that? You're principled on one thing, there's no other thing. What's it coming from?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U88	Unfortunately, the figures against the draft you have submitted are a rather long list of arguments that do not support your draft. The earlier decision in question is enshrined in the law and the taxpayer proceeds from it. We can talk about round money separately, this is not the subject of this debate. But I repeat: the arguments for not supporting your draft are more than one single point. I would add to this the whole global context: it is direct taxes that are currently being humiliated by countries to maintain and strengthen their competitiveness; the state budget is rather being offset by indirect taxes. We need to take this general background into account if we want Estonia to be competitive, so that there are investments here and there are jobs that can be increased by taxes in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U89	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U90	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, I'm coming back to corporate tax. You stress that the reason for objecting to the draft is, above all, that the possible failure to reduce the corporate tax rate makes it difficult to implement business plans. However, it is known that neither Sweden, Finland or Latvia, which we have been talking about here, has been exempt from income tax on reinvested earnings. This is only the case in Estonia and this means that the company only pays income tax if the income is transferred from the company, it is not used to implement the company's business plan. How can you say that non-loss of income tax will worsen the company's ability to carry out its business plan? After all, this is a completely different business plan for the company and the company owner's personal profit plan is two different things.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U91	Thank you for your question. We need to look at the whole chain from investment to profit distribution. In any event, the reduction of the tax rate by 1% also affects the taxation of the profits distributed. If Finland and Sweden lower their overall corporate tax rate, this will also make it more favourable to tax dividends. This is, in any case, an important aspect that we should take into account. This will also have an impact on business plans. It's obvious.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U92	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U93	Thank you. There's such a sport as athletics, there's both distance and pole jumping. To claim that a good man jumped 5 meters and 10 centimeters away, and that a silly man jumped only 5 meters from a pole is clearly stupid. Here's my question. Does it make sense for us to compare the tax rates for corporate income and the tax rates for other systems? It's as stupid as the comparison between the distance jump and the pole jump. I mean, the systems are different, so why even compare these percentages?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U94	Unfortunately, we have to compare. These comparisons are relevant and necessary, and they are compared. I'm absolutely sure of it. This is about the overall tax burden on businesses. Once again, if Sweden and Finland have decided to significantly lower corporate tax, this will also make it more favourable to tax dividends, or distributed profits, in these countries. You are proposing to increase the overall tax rate by 1%. This makes it more costly for us to tax the profits we distribute. This increases the tax burden and, in particular, in my example, the tax burden on dividends. So comparison with distance jump and pole jump isn't exactly appropriate.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U95	Thank you. Please, Jüri Morozov, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U96	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! The main content of the draft we are currently discussing is how to ensure the development of the Estonian population as well as the development of the Estonian economy. This debate, however, has become demagogic. You're trying to hide behind all kinds of numbers and just demagogic techniques. I have a feeling that you are seriously opposed to the Estonian population and economic development, or that you simply hate children.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U97	Your question is a model example of demagogy. Once again, child benefits are an important part of the budget expenditure and are also increased according to the state's capabilities. However, the draft that you have tabled does not foresee that these EUR 75 or 80 million in particular will be diverted. You're just raising income tax, that's all. Given that our economic growth is not exactly what it might be, the effect of raising income tax on the economy is exactly the opposite of what needs to be achieved. We need to promote the economy. The reduction in the income tax rate can be seen as one of the measures for economic recovery.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U98	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U99	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, I would now like to ask a substantive question concerning the procedure of the draft within the Commission. When the Committee on Monetary Affairs discussed this, was it also mentioned that such an important draft that actually affects Estonia's life, both socially and economically, could also be sent to committees such as the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Social Affairs Committee? Or was it simply decided that it had been presented by the Social Democrats and that we would vote him out, that there was no point in dealing with it in substance?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U100	Such a proposal was not proposed by the Commission to refer the draft to other committees. But today it is possible to vote in favour and against the bill and there are representatives of other committees in the Chamber. However, the Committee on Monetary Affairs did not make such a proposal to direct the draft to a wider debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U101	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U102	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I am very tempted to extend this principle of legitimate expectation to families with children, even though it is not exactly in line with the rules. But I'm still trying. You see, a party in power promised free school circles or hobbies for families with children, but for some reason that promise was broken. Do you think this is a violation of legitimate expectations? And how could one family's legitimate expectations in today's Estonia be characterised by a formula? What can they expect if we continue such a policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U103	We did not discuss round money and other such subsidies in the context of this draft. So, as a representative of the Commission, I cannot help you now because of my position.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U104	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U105	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I am also talking about legitimate expectations. I think that if this bill goes through in this Chamber, you and the Social Democrats will be happy too, because the revenue from the state budget will increase, and not just a small amount of EUR 80 million. This money would be directed towards increasing family benefits, as has been said in this Chamber. Let me give you an example. Today my granddaughter went to school and put 0.5 liters of milk, canned tuna, parsley, package butter, grilled bread and something else in his school bag, because he had a cooking class in the course of work. I would like to say that in Estonia, you can no longer talk about school education for free. In other parts of the world, the rate of income tax may be reduced, but there is some guarantee that children and families will be able to cope. Do you not think that the expectations of the people are rather that the reduction in the rate of income tax will still be abolished?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U106	No, I don't agree with you. A general reduction in the tax burden is in the interest of all taxpayers, both businesses and individuals. Lowering the income tax rate leaves more money to people. I disagree with the assessment that the state would gain a great deal from this. Forecasts can be made by multiplying the tax rate by a corresponding number of tax receipts, but it is quite difficult for forecasters to assess the impact of such changes on the economic environment as a whole. If we still lose jobs and investment as the environment deteriorates, then in the long run, we may be more losers than we currently seem when looking at these specific figures.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U107	Thank you. Please, Mr Luigas, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U108	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I fully agree with you that more money will be left to the people. I repeat here: the recipient of the minimum wage will have 1 euro more, the people who receive teachers' salaries more or less will have 6 euros, the member of the Riigikogu will have 31 euros and the Prime Minister will win 48 euros. Now, if I come back to what my granddaughter put in my school bag this morning, I'm sorry, but the teacher's kid couldn't take an active part in work classes. The Prime Minister and members of the Riigikogu could send their children to school. Don't you think such comparisons aren't quite appropriate?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U109	But you make those comparisons! These comparisons may, of course, be made, but we are speaking in different languages right now. You think money just comes from somewhere and it can be distributed. But no, he's not just coming, he's coming from the economy, he's coming from the taxpayers. The money you want to redistribute must be from business. You are only looking at where money can be spent or how it can be reallocated, but I also suggest that you consider how to improve the economic environment and create the conditions for the country's revenues to grow so that there is money to share around.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U110	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Aivar Sõerd! I'm opening negotiations. Please, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, Mrs Vassilyev. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U111	Ladies and gentlemen, This reduction of 1% of the income tax that has not yet been paid can be called a gift to the wealthiest. Why do I say that? One thing is, of course, how this EUR 80 million is expected to be distributed in society, who and how much it will benefit. It has been said about this remote control, but perhaps it is appropriate to repeat that the recipient of the minimum wage wins 2 euros a month, much more prosperous: some of us here are 40 euros or a little more, Prime Minister 48 euros. In any event, this distribution is disproportionate. Aivar Sõerd has said on this platform and, in fact, the whole Reform Party and its coalition partner, IRL, have referred to the aspect of this change, in particular, that it will significantly improve our economic environment and that labour taxes must certainly be lowered. People still have different opinions and are often subjective, especially if they are not put in an objective context. I'm trying to reflect this a little more objectively. If we look at our labour taxes and income tax from the point of view of the employee, then Estonia is not a big income tax, but a social tax. And what does that lead to? Above all, since we have a low rate of income tax-free minimum, because we know that we have proportionate income tax and that social tax does not progress in any way, but applies proportionally to everyone, then our labour taxes are not high for the wealthier, but for the people with lower incomes. In view of the social and economic context, when deciding where the EUR 80 million that could be invested, it would undoubtedly be more reasonable to use this money to raise the tax-free rate of return to address the labour tax problem. This would do much better to solve problems that are topical in Estonia in the context of Europe. So we cannot talk about a 1% reduction in income tax as an idea that could lead to a solution to the problem of high taxes on labour. In particular, it is worth pointing out that, as we know, we already have hidden income tax in Estonia for some time, with the active support of the IRL and Reform Party. What am I talking about? The fact that unemployment insurance is kept unduly high. This tax does not finance the unemployment fund in order to pay unemployment insurance benefits to people in worse times, but instead to balance the state budget. In other words, it is like income tax, which has no direct link to the distributions or to the reserves of the unemployment fund. In fact, it seems that the IRL and the Reform Party are hostages. In the case of the Reform Party, we can talk about the so-called hostage drama because of his previous election promises, and in the case of the IRL, the hostage drama, where the hostage keeper or Reform Party itself is a hostage. In fact, there are no convincing arguments for a tax change of EUR 80 million. When it comes to the taxation of corporate income, it is true that in the case of the Estonian tax system, a reduction of 1% in the rate of income tax also affects companies, since the tax on distributed profits is somewhat lower than so far. Of course, in the context of a company, there is a certain carry-over effect on employee tax, but here I would like to remind you of what has already been said today that many companies actually perceive their competition problems. It certainly depends much on the chain in which your labour costs are. There is probably a greater concern for companies offering products or services where wage costs are rather low and which are more taxed than in other countries. However, as my colleague Eiki Nestor mentioned, it is not right to examine only tax rates for companies. Indeed, if we look at the northern neighbours, as Aivar Sõerd pointed out, their share of corporate tax in GDP is twice that of Estonia. The fact that we are taxed only on distributed profits, but also on accounting profits, from which deductions can be made for certain investments, makes the picture quite different. Thus, just by comparing the figures, it is clear that Finns reach below us in the distribution of profits at the rate of income tax, i.e. their companies have been taxed at a lower rate of income, is certainly extremely shallow and simple. How much time do I have left?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U112	You have 55 seconds.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U113	Okay, so I've almost spent my time. To conclude, when we talk about the logic of tax collection, I think it is very reasonable that taxes are collected according to income, but the money thus collected is distributed not only on the basis of income but also on the basis of objective needs. I mean the number of children. For example, if there are two people who earn 3000 or 2000 euros, which is a very decent salary in the Estonian context, and one of them has two children, the other has no two children, then I think it is very reasonable that their income tax is the same, but some of this money is paid back according to the number of children. This is particularly sensible if it does not increase the administrative burden and costs for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U114	Thank you. Please speak on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union Lauri Vahtre.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U115	Ladies and gentlemen, Although I was not in the hall, I listened carefully to the waitress. The talk was from the heart, and I fully share Urve Palo's concerns about the Estonian people's growth. But to a large extent I did not understand the connection between all this right or at least heartfelt talk and this draft. Now we have heard the representative of the Socialist Group speaking about the economic environment and the movement of money, and this is indeed linked to this draft. However, if we simply declare that we intend to use this money to increase child benefits, this is not a regulatory issue. It might as well have been said that you intend to channel this money into the development of ski sports in Estonia, and then we would have discussed here at length and widely whether skiing is important to Estonia and, if so, to what extent and for what money it must be developed. I came to the remote because they were talking about naughty. As some may have noticed, I will never miss the opportunity to speak of a child, and I will do so now. In doing so, I do not just want to talk about the issue, but I came to the board because it is not right for those who are critical of this bill to appear in the Chamber to be against the Estonian people. Secondly, I do not want to make it sound like ivet could be greatly improved by means of money. For the first time in the history of mankind, there is a situation in developed countries where childless families are in a better situation than children. Mankind's history is several million years long, and all the time it has been an advantage for those who have children. Children have not been obtained because somewhere in the Stone Age there were excellent governments who distributed so much child support that parents were able to acquire children. No, I needed to have kids. Those who didn't have children weren't quite a full member of society. Time was cruel. And it was cruel until quite recently, when this attitude has begun to be revisited. And now we have come to a qualitatively completely new situation - it started some 50 years ago - where you can also not have children and still live happily. You can also travel abroad from old age and have a fine laugh at those who race with children or grandchildren. It is not possible to mistake this state of affairs with money. Money can alleviate that, I admit. Money can buy many things, it can build kindergartens, and it can reduce the burden on parents. However, we must always remember that when dealing with this problem, a child needs not only money but also time and effort. No matter how well we pay for a parent, it does not take pleasure and responsibility on his part to get up at night to shush his crying child or change his diaper. Let's just say it's the easiest way to father a child, it's a lot harder to give birth, but the biggest job is to raise a child. And it doesn't just happen with money. I'm asking for a little extra time!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U116	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U117	Rather, we need to consider how we can give parents time. The entire human race is designed in such a way that mothers and fathers of fertile and able to work do not spend their basic time on children. They are helped by many grandparents to raise their children, leaving their parents with more time to work alongside their children, to do their own work. We have to admit that our people will not last any other way than if the principle fails: if you do not raise your children, you will raise someone else's. And if we lose the chance that I won't have kids because I'm more comfortable this way. We should sit down and discuss how to find people who could help, not financially, but families with their own other contributions, with two children, three children, or four children. Where are the grandmothers? Where are the grandfathers? Where are the volunteer grandmothers and grandfathers to help? Kindergartens, yes, the development of kindergartens is, I don't disagree, very important. But that's not all there is. I believe I am not saying anything new here, but I think we have fallen back into our old illusion, our old trap, that we are discussing some specific amount, 70 or 80 million, and we are arguing whether it will save the Estonian people from extinction or not. There's no way we're gonna save our people. Or if you use the English word, we'll bark under the wrong tree. But maybe it's not too late, and we can find ways to make our poor number better. By the way, the experience of France, for example, shows that it is the time given to mothers, not so much money, that is very good for a child. So much for the tax rate this time. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-18_U118	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The Commission's proposal was to reject the draft at first reading. We need to vote on this. Let's get ready for the vote. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting to reject the draft proposal by the commission at first reading 548. Please take a stand and vote. 41 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 30 against, no abstentions. The commission's proposal has been adopted and draft 548 has been rejected at first reading. Ladies and gentlemen, today's agenda is exhausted. Thank you very much for your active participation! Have a nice day, see you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 11.54 a.m.
