ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the Monday session of the 18th working week of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. The representative of the Government of the Republic, Mrs. Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U2	Mr. Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is today initiating a draft Act amending the Social Welfare Act, the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and other laws. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Social Affairs Helmen Kütt.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U3	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U4	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I am giving the Riigikogu procedure a draft law amending the law on the restriction of the acquisition of immovable property, offering for the third time to the current composition to discuss whether or not we grant a natural person living in Estonia on the basis of a long-term resident's residence permit the right to acquire up to 0.2 hectares of land in the border zone of Estonia. Let me briefly remind you that I am the third time before you on this subject. On the first occasion, the year before, this amendment was a draft of the Government of the Republic, which happily reached the third reading, but then, on the order given from Stenbock's house, it didn't work. Last year we also dealt with this draft and remained there that the Ministry of Defence promised us by 1 May this year an analysis of national defence restrictions. This has not been done to my knowledge, so I have a natural desire to discuss this issue again. Maybe this analysis will come, maybe your mind will change. But anyway, thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U5	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U6	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the delegates of the Centre Party Group, I have the honour to address an inquiry to Mr Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Education and Science. Upon completion of comprehensive school, 9th grade students must complete a compulsory mathematics exam. That year, the exam took place on June 6. Last week, it turned out that for many middle school graduates, mathematics exams could become a major obstacle to graduate school. In several schools, such as Väike-Maarja Gymnasium, Tallinn Nõmme Gymnasium and Tallinn Art High School, nearly half of the students in the ninth grade failed at the exam. The high number of failures is considered to be due both to the attitude of students and to the inadequate and quality work of mathematics teachers. It has also been resented that the examination tasks were not directly related to subjects covered by the curriculum. It is also pointed out that the solution of the exam assignments was unfamiliar to the students and that the exam assignments were more difficult than usual this year. The task of the so-called flower beds was a major problem at the exam. Students are usually accustomed to calculating circle and square area and circumference, but the solution of this task proved too complex for many students. Therefore, we have five questions for the Minister of Education and one of them specifically about the fact that, according to international PISA tests, our students are as if they are very successful and smart. What does Mr Ossinovski say? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U7	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U8	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of 12 delegates from the Social Democratic Party Group and Lembit Kaljuvee, I have the opportunity to address an inquiry to the President of Eesti Pank, Mr Ardo Hansson. The inquiry concerns the circulation of cash and the organisation of payment services. According to § 34 (8) of the Emergency Act, cash circulation and payment services are vital services, the continuity of which is ensured and organised by Eesti Pank. Paragraph 35 of the Emergency Act provides that the authority that organises the continuity of vital services coordinates the continuity of vital services and advises the providers of vital services, carries out itself or appoints its subsidiary to supervise the continuity of vital services. In its regulations, Eesti Pank has set minimum performance requirements for these services, which address the requirements for four major banks to ensure the continuity of central information systems and devices. On this basis, we are asking why, apart from technical requirements, minimum requirements for cash circulation and the provision of payment services have not been regulated. The decline in access to banking services in rural areas continues and has already reached regional centres. We therefore ask what solutions Eesti Pank has discussed to ensure uniform access to cash and payment services across Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U9	I have adopted two draft laws and two inquiries. The draft laws shall be decided upon if they comply with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act and shall also be sent to the addressee if they comply with the same law. Requesting presence check! Currently 82 members of the Riigikogu are present, 19 members of the Riigikogu are missing. Adoption of the agenda. On the basis of the proposals received from the committees, the Riigikogu Board has drawn up this week's agenda. There is currently one clarification made by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. In particular, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has proposed that agenda item 4, i.e. the second reading of draft law amending the status of a member of the Riigikogu and other laws, be deleted from Thursday's agenda. But the word is Tarmo Tamm. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U10	Thank you, President of the Riigikogu. Chancellor of Justice Indrek Teder did s. a On 9 June, Parliament to bring proposal No 28 into line with the Constitution, § 1165 (1) 6 of the Pharmaceutical Act. Paragraph 150 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu provides that the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice is to be placed on the agenda of Parliament's plenary as soon as possible on a proposal from either the Bureau or the Chairman. However, this week's agenda does not include the chancellor's proposal 28. What are the compelling reasons why the Board of the Riigikogu did not put the Chancellor's proposal on the plenary agenda as soon as possible, as provided for in the law? When will it be placed on the agenda? This week will be the last of this session. Will it be placed on the agenda of an emergency session, or will it be pushed into the autumn? Pushing into autumn is certainly not a debate as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U11	Thank you for your question. As far as I know, the committees had the opportunity to discuss this proposal by the Chancellor of Justice last week. On Thursday, when this week's agenda was approved, the committees had not yet discussed this proposal. Discussion of the proposal is sensible, necessary and possible when the committees state their clear position on it. So as the committees are able to discuss the letter of the Chancellor of Justice, it will also be on our agenda. As far as possible extraordinary sessions are concerned, everything also depends on what the conveners want to discuss. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U12	Paragraph 150 of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act makes it clear that the proposal will be placed on the agenda either on the initiative of the Executive Board or on a proposal from the Chairman, and this is not about committees.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U13	I repeat, the Bureau considered it necessary to give the committees time to discuss this proposal. The Commissions did not do this last week. On behalf of all three Bureau members, I hope that the committees will be able to discuss this during this working week. Honourable Riigikogu, with the Constitutional Committee... Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U14	Thank you, Mr President. We have important drafts on this week's agenda, some are reasonable, some are less sensible. On behalf of the IRL Group, I propose that the 6th item on the agenda of this working week, which provides for the postponement of parental pensions, be deleted from the agenda for this working week. We believe that this is not a sensible initiative and should therefore not be discussed in this House. We propose that this item be deleted.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U15	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U16	Thank you, Mr President. On behalf of my group, I protest against the deletion of this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U17	Paul-Eerik Rummo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U18	Thank you! As a procedural question, I ask whether the procedure does not provide that the detailed justification for making such a proposal is that no one considers it to be a sensible draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U19	The Home and Working Procedures Act does not regulate which draft laws are reasonable, which ones are not, nor which proposals are reasonable and which ones are not. As Urmas Reinsalu's proposal was protested, the agenda for this working week could already be voted on. But Urmas Reinsalu has another suggestion or question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U20	If Paul-Eerik Rummo maintains his position, I can well justify and explain my proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U21	Dear Andrus Ansip, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U22	Can we start using green and red buttons for the procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U23	It is possible to vote. Does anyone else have any procedural questions? Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U24	Thank you. I have a procedural question. Can you use yellow buttons?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U25	They can also be used in the vote. Any more procedural questions? Looks like there's no more. With the amendment of the Constitutional Committee, honourable Riigikogu, I will vote on the 18th working week agenda of the VII plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. There are 55 members of the Riigikogu in favour of approving the agenda, against 28. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U26	Let's get to today's agenda. First, there are answers to questions. Members of the Riigikogu Aivar Riisalu, Enn Eesmaa, Kalev Kallo, Lauri Laasi, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Peeter Võsa, Tarmo Tamm, Valeri Korb, Viktor Vassilyev and Vladimir Velman have submitted an inquiry on 8 May concerning the suspicion of corruption in the establishment of Viimsi pier. Andres Anvelt, Minister of Justice, must answer that question. Tarmo Tamm, on behalf of the heirs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U27	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The inquiry is for Minister of Justice Andres Anvelt and the content of the inquiry is the suspicion of corruption in the establishment of the Viimsi pier. Minister of Justice! On 9 April of this year, the popular public dissertation "The Spectator" in Viimsi described a situation where the local government of the IRL that had left power may have been involved in the corruption scandal of the construction of the Leppineeme port pier. In short, the municipality paid a total of EUR 13000 for the dismantling of the previously established but unfinished technical centre of Kirov's Fisherman Colony at Kaluri tee 5, allegedly owned by Toomas Tool. The construction residues resulting from the demolition of the building were sold by the scrapper for EUR 10000 to the pier builder and were used to fill the new breakwater at the port. Originally, limestone was to be fulfilled, but according to Haldo Oravas, an ex-wife of IRL, everyone acted on the conviction that crushed concrete would be better preserved in seawater than limestone. However, the designer's analysis commissioned by the builder showed that the concrete fill will halve the life of the facility planned for 100 years. In the middle of November last year, a new management board of the municipality took office, and on the table came the Act of Works with the signature of former Deputy Governor Endel Lepiku, which stated that the pier had been placed in limestone for EUR 71200. The misunderstanding revealed an act of the same date, which also bore Lepiku's signature on it, marked with material that actually filled the pier and at the same price. According to this paper, the municipality therefore bought back the same construction residues resulting from the demolition, which the scrapper had sold at EUR 10000, at a price of more than EUR 70000, or seven times the price. The new parish government issued a report on the possible embezzlement of corruption, counterfeiting, breach of public procurement requirements and abuse of influence, but the police and the prosecutor's office refused to initiate criminal proceedings. We have three questions for the Minister, perhaps a good minister, to read them out, so it is better to point out why the prosecutor's office and the police did not initiate proceedings in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U28	Thank you. Andres Anveltil, Minister of Justice, must answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U29	Mr President of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will answer your question, and as the previous waitress asked, I will read your questions in front of my answer. The first question: 'According to the data provided, there is a clear suspicion that the former rural municipality government, led by IRL, wanted to divert EUR 70000 from the rural municipality's budget. The second question has been raised as to why the municipality paid thousands of euros to Toomas Tool for the destruction of an irresponsibly neglected building. Do you believe that this is a possible corruption and whether and how you believe that this case should be further investigated in a situation where the police and the prosecutor's office have abandoned the case? " First, of course, let me thank you for the question. Although I very much appreciate investigative journalism and investigative journalists, the Ministry of Justice does not have investigative journalism resources. And since the political level of the government must not be confused in the rule of law with the administration of justice and preparation for this in the pre-trial proceedings in criminal matters, I have no information to assess whether there was a transfer in Viimsi. I agree that this case raises questions, but the legal assessment is a matter in itself and there are certain procedural rules for it. The police and the prosecutor's office are competent to deal with the suspicion of a crime. In order to ensure the objectivity of this task and the lack of political influence, the prosecutor's office in charge of pre-trial criminal proceedings is independent and subject only to judicial supervision for this task. I quote from the law: 'The Public Prosecutor's Office is independent in carrying out its duties under the law and acts on the basis of [... ] the law. [---] The Federal Ministry of Justice's supervisory function over the prosecutor's office does not extend to the activities of the prosecutor's office in the planning of surveillance activities, pre-trial criminal proceedings and representation of state prosecutions in court. " Therefore, the questions I may have do not have the meaning that the prosecutor's office or the police should definitely deal with this matter. The initiation and execution of criminal proceedings must be based on the terms and conditions agreed in the Code of Criminal Procedure, in which case and how they must act. Then the court will finally be able to decide whether or not it was a transfer. The law also provides for specific procedures for challenging the decision of the police or the prosecutor's office not to open criminal proceedings. To this end, the victim has the right to appeal to the circuit court. Even if the municipality considers that a crime has been committed against it, but the police or prosecutor's office does not start criminal proceedings, the municipality will also have the opportunity to have the court review of that decision. Therefore, the control of compliance with the principle of the mandatory nature of criminal proceedings is the jurisdiction of the court given by Estonian law and only of the court. The question of the amounts paid for the demolition of a building is another matter. The local government must stand up for all kinds of local life issues. And they include the good-looking of a parish or a city. Getting out of sight of the ugliest buildings of the parish, as they were called in the press, is one of the goals that the municipality is trying to achieve legally. If subsidies are needed to ensure this and there is money, there is no need to see anything corrupt about it. However, as has already been said, the knowledge on the basis of which I can shape my current assessment is by no means complete and, if there are doubts as to the commission of an offence, it must be investigated by law, if there are grounds for the offence procedure, so that an objective right can be exercised. Here we come again to the issue of the independence of the offence procedure. If any act of punishment has not been identified, but people find, for example, the work of the investigative press that something has been done wrong, then the local authorities are still responsible, at least politically, for their choices. It is rather a matter of credibility. The second question: 'If the prosecutor's office does not investigate suspicions, the press seems to have to do the work of the prosecutor's office. If the D.A.'s office doesn't take the obvious suspicions of corruption to investigate, can you see the bias of the D.A.'s office here? ' I am of the opinion, however, that the press cannot do the work of the prosecutor's office or vice versa. Both have different tasks, even if they investigate the same case or if one investigates and the other does not do so for some legitimate reason. It is similar in both cases that both must be objective and outside the political influence of the government in the performance of its tasks. I believe that the Estonian prosecutor's office is not biased or political. Specific cases show that suspicions and accusations have been brought against alleged corruptions and criminals of several political parties, some of whom have been found guilty, under the direction of the prosecutor's office. I am sure that, unfortunately, this will continue to be done in the future. Unfortunately, because it would be better if these cases didn't occur at all. However, there is nothing to suggest that the prosecutors were in any way biased in the performance of their duties. If so, this would not only be a violation of the principle of independence previously referred to, but also an act whose legal consequence is the imposition of a penalty. In so doing, I call on all of you, who have specific information that one or the other of the prosecutors' offices is affected by one or the other proceedings, to make this known. Such a statement could be made freely to the Defence Police Department, which investigates offences related to the prosecutor's office. In 2011, the law of the prosecutor's office was supplemented by a provision that allows the state's attorney general to report to the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu, after a regular report, on the significant, extensive or urgent problems encountered in the course of the activities of the prosecutor's office. These problems also include a hypothetical external political influence. And as far as I know, the Attorney General has such a report before the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu tomorrow afternoon. The third question: 'If even such cases do not attract the attention of the prosecutor's office, how certain can the Estonian people be that corruption cases are still not dealt with selectively or are not dealt with at all, because the people who should deal with them see possible violations simply as ambiguity due to incorrect compliance with documentation obligations, as in this case? ' Dear former colleagues! A few months ago, I was in charge of the Special Committee on Corruption and I assure you that, while in government, anti-corruption action remains one of the government's priorities, as well as mine. I am also aware that both the Police and Border Guard Board and the Public Prosecutor's Office consider corruption cases to be a priority area and have systematically contributed to the capacity to deal with these cases. Against this background, it is unlikely that these law enforcement authorities would selectively fail to deal with a manifest case of corruption on which there is a basis for criminal proceedings. Once again, I stress that there is always a possibility of judicial review in these same cases, for example, in addition to the negative procedural decision of the prosecutor's office. The people of Estonia can be sure that both the government and law enforcement authorities attach importance to preventing corruption and responding to corruption cases. It is also worth paying attention to the statistics on corruption crimes in recent years, according to which these cases have grown strongly. I think that the fact that the working line of both the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice has provided the police and the prosecutor's office with additional resources has played a very important role, and this has also been prioritised in meetings between the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice. These cases are not treated biasedly or superficially. At the same time, undue suspicions of an offence must also be avoided objectively and in an inclined manner. The complaint against the offence is the most intense complaint that the law allows. Where there are no signs of an offence, other types of liability, such as civil or political liability, may be relevant. But there's good reason to be cautious about suspected crimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U30	Questions to the answer to the question. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U31	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you for your answers. It is basically a question of how to better explain and understand to the public why the police or prosecutor's office does not initiate proceedings in one case or another. Could this be part of their work to indicate in any way why proceedings are not initiated in one case or another? That may be justified, but still. How can you communicate better with the public?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U32	Thank you. I agree with this question. For example, some of the texts of the Regulation refusing to open criminal proceedings may sometimes be very complex in law, as it is actually written to lawyers , which is designed to enable an appeal to be made from there. Often there may also be a problem of pure communication. I think the communication sector is developing in every office and ministry. I also hope, and I also contribute, that in the future such explanations, which are not directly legal, but are based on a legal text, will be clearer and easier for citizens to understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U33	Andrus Ansip, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U34	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I saw the Spectator show, too, and I had the impression that this was a very serious corruption case in Viimsi. Knowing that in the past, the prosecutor's office has refused to investigate the case until the decision of the district court obliged the prosecutor's office to investigate one of the cases, but in doing so, it was so frustrated that some evidence, such as the distinctions of telephone calls, expired because it was stored only for a year, it would be the same feeling as my good colleague in the Riigikogu that corruption cases are dealt with selectively. Do you share this many times that the study and trial must not only be fair but also appear righteous?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U35	Thank you. Essentially, once again, it is often a question of communication. I want to state, or I don't even want to say, I am more than certain that the prosecutor's office will rely on the facts that it has in place before the proceedings are opened and, as a result of these circumstances, will make its own decisions when making its decisions. As I emphasised in the previous reply, any such decisions can be appealed. In this case of Viimsi, a non-existent criminal case, one party did not exercise its right to go to the district court to order the criminal proceedings. I do not know why this was not done, but I have always recommended it to people who are not satisfied with the basis of the prosecution's activities. Only such influence, legal influence, can be the basis for changing positive or negative decisions of the prosecutor's office. However, this certainly cannot be done by the Minister of Justice, because in that case it would be the same political influence that I spoke of in my replies.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U36	Thomas Tõniste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U37	Thank you, good manager. Good answer to the questions! Do you think that the publication on the "Spectator" broadcast ordered by national broadcasting always meets the criteria of absolute truth and is the information published there balanced? Has both sides still been given an equal opportunity to defend themselves, and that is how things are passed on to the people? Is it possible, for example, that what is published there may be deliberately tilted in favour of a party? What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U38	Thank you. It's the ERR and it's what he's doing. It is more within the sphere of another organisation to determine whether what has been published there is real and whether it has behaved according to the code of ethics of journalists. Therefore, as Minister of Justice, I cannot and cannot judge this. I just hope that the journalists, especially at the ERR, will come from all the principles and foundations they have acquired by studying the press and working as a journalist. Estimates of one or the other section of the programme can be given through legal proceedings, for example if someone feels that his or her rights have been violated by this programme.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U39	Lauri Laasi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U40	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You said the DA's office was independent, and so was the countless IRL corruption cases in Viimsi. Here's the question. Is it because the independent Attorney General was not so independent that you suspended him before the end of his term of office?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U41	Thank you. I do not think that terms such as 'withdrawal' and 'withdrawal', or so on, are in any way compatible with the content at least in the ministry that I manage. The term of office of the current state's Prosecutor General was coming to an end and he himself expressed his wish to resign. Now this wish has already been confirmed by the Government of the Republic, and the current chancellor also wishes to change his job. Therefore, if there is a quack, it is important to consider how to find a good civil servant with a very good long career in this position. And I will not hesitate for a moment to doubt that this is the case with Norman Aas, which is why I proposed to him several weeks ago.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U42	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U43	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! In one of your previous answers, you said that the prosecutor's office would decide whether or not to initiate criminal proceedings on the basis of information they would receive from the media or elsewhere, and that is certainly one reason why criminal proceedings would not be initiated very lightly. But sometimes this criminal procedure is necessary in order to find out the facts, because the direct purpose of criminal proceedings is not to crucifix or bring anyone to justice, but to clarify the facts. What is your opinion? Perhaps we should try to change the view that someone has already been convicted in criminal proceedings and instead move towards the fact that criminal proceedings are precisely designed to identify the facts.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U44	Thank you. I think it is actually a process that is full of causal links. Certainly, criminal proceedings are not a process of convicting anyone. Criminal proceedings, when this procedure is brought to an end, also have some sort of outcome. But I'm gonna come round again to the same sentences I said about a dozen minutes ago from this remote. In fact, the prosecutor is the independent official who has to make his assessment of the material he has received about the possible circumstances of an event, incident or crime, and he is free in this conduct. But I would like to stress once again that his decisions may be challenged by a court of law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U45	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U46	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! You have said many times today that the court and only the court. In fact, we know that a person may be shaken for seven years or sometimes longer in that judicial system and maybe he will finally get his right, but by then the same media or general opinion has already done its job. Does the Minister of Justice really see no alternative but to sloping in a seven-year-old judicial system? Could it not be that people feel and see the initiation/disengagement of proceedings and the questioning/failing to be fairer?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U47	Thank you. I think most people see this process as quite fair. For some reason, I do not believe that the attitude of the prosecutor's office as an unfair institution is very massive. There is also a need to look at trust in the prosecutor's office, which, although subjective, is certainly not so small that we should be very concerned. Although, yes, I am also very concerned about long trials. Over the last few years, the Ministry of Justice has made a number of very important legislative improvements that have reduced the average statistical time of trial. A full process has been launched at the Harju County Court, where an Advocate General has also been assisted by the judges. This institution will expand exactly as much as our country's budget allows. For example, in the autumn, we will come up again with amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure, which would increase the protection of people from so-called arbitrary criminal prosecution. I don't really want to use such words, but often certain activities may seem unfair. There are quite a lot of such activities in the Ministry of Justice, and certainly the current coalition agreement also states, for example, that the new coalition makes proposals and brings here changes to the procedural laws of the large hall, which are intended to protect citizens' fundamental rights and freedoms.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U48	Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U49	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. If there was a transaction in your administration that you know that the price difference is seven times, i.e. a purchase of EUR 10,000 will become a sales price of EUR 70000, wouldn't that alone raise a lot of questions for the Minister? Is there no reason to examine such facts by looking at the limits of public procurement, etc.?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U50	Thank you. Certainly, as I mentioned in my first or second reply, regarding the sums paid to dismantle a building, there may be doubts. But to sum up the decision as to whether or not to open the proceedings, I would emphasise once again, the prosecutor will make the decision, not the Minister of Justice. If the Ministry of Justice, or any other public institution, were to bring such a thing up and there were no grounds for believing that this could be an offence within the meaning of the Penal Code, certain methods of internal control would be helpful, for example, in the Ministry, the Internal Audit Department and the Audit Committee in the local government. They should make an initial assessment of what has been done with taxpayers' money either in a public institution or in a local municipality. In this case, it is very difficult to speculate in front of the honourable assembly, because we know only a few pieces of information, not all the sources and circumstances that the prosecutor knew when he made his decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U51	Cameron Maruse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U52	Thank you! Good minister! I'd like to come back to what Kalle Laanet said. The preliminary investigation is, by its very nature, not intended to condemn anyone immediately, but to find out the situation, both by pros and cons. Therefore, the criminal investigation should not, as such, be intimidated or excluded in any way. I am sure that the Minister will also have the opportunity to find out what information the prosecutor has drawn from. For no reason can the prosecutor's office be regarded as an independent body within the executive, until the Minister has the right to oversee the ministry. There's a connection between these things, too. What concrete steps have you taken in this regard?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U53	Thank you. I return to the text of the law: 'The Public Prosecutor's Office is independent in carrying out its duties under the law and acts on the basis of [... ] the law. [---] The Federal Ministry of Justice's supervisory function over the prosecutor's office does not extend to the activities of the prosecutor's office in the planning of surveillance activities, pre-trial criminal proceedings and representation of state prosecutions in court. ' I think that these few lines describe very well the will of the legislator in this relationship, which concerns executive power as a ministry and executive power as a prosecutor's office, which, as we all know, is actually the hallmarks of the judicial authority. In fact, he is dealing with justice in very many situations when we are talking about settlement procedures, where the judge is essentially only playing a binding role. Whether it's right or wrong, I don't want to talk now without relying on deeper analysis. However, I think that since the prosecutor's office has a bit of a state body in a different format from the ministry and certainly something other than a court, I think that our legislator, our honourable parliament, the Riigikogu, could have more instruments through which it would be possible to ask for clarification on the decisions of the prosecutor's office. I am sticking to my opinion here that it should not be so much about ongoing procedures, or, if it is, under any circumstances. There could also be some kind of vision for the future here in our joint discussions. I would like to stress once again that the prosecutor's office, as an executive, still does not carry out the tasks of the Ministry of Justice or the Ministry of the Interior, for example. At the same time, if you look at the relationship between the prosecutor's office and the legislator, which concerns a much wider political community than the power parties, including representatives of the opposition, the Riigikogu could perhaps have greater legitimacy in supervising the prosecutor's office. To some extent that is the case, and if I am not mistaken, tomorrow the Attorney General will be before the Constitutional Commission with his annual report.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U54	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Do the inquisitors wish to perform? No, I don't. Andrus Ansip, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U55	Mr President! Dear Minister, Good Riigikogu! I do not share the view that only the court can give an opinion on the investigation or failure to investigate a problematic criminal case and that the Ministry of Justice or the Minister can completely distance himself from making assessments. Moreover, I do not think that making assessments by the Minister or the Ministry would be inappropriate in any way and contrary to the meaning of the law or to the letter of the law. In the case of systematic deviations, the Ministry must take the legislative initiative. For this very reason, the Minister of Justice and the Ministry of Justice should certainly pay very serious attention to matters that have created a very strong resonance in society through the media. In the case of a one-off gross infringement, official supervision must be initiated. Yes, there must be a direct infringement in order to initiate official supervision. However, if the Minister or the Ministry distances itself from these problematic cases and does not attempt to establish the existence or absence of a direct infringement, then this official supervision makes no sense at all. Unfortunately, at the moment, this issue of bias has indeed come up acutely. Someone is being investigated without damage and money being moved on the basis of mere suspicion that a person might have been intent on committing a corrupt act. There are obvious indications of widespread corruption on the other side, but there will be no investigation. Once again I repeat this very much multiplied truth that justice, judgment and investigation must not only be objective, transparent and honest, but they must also seem honest to people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U56	Thank you. There's no more calls. Would the Minister of Justice like to make a speech? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U57	I'm afraid to bring up a few remarks. I want to emphasise once again that this hall is the legislator. And the legislator has very clearly established by the law of the prosecutor's office the competence of the Minister of Justice to supervise the prosecutor's office in a professional capacity. A good member of the Riigikogu, a former Prime Minister, stressed here that the official supervision of the company.. I am very sorry, I have not been able to verbatimize... could extend to the prosecutor's office even if it can be seen that something has been done illegally. I would like to emphasise once again: the legislator has made its will very clear and entered into the law that the supervision of the prosecutor's office by the Ministry of Justice does not extend to the activities of the prosecutor's office in pre-trial criminal proceedings. Maybe what I'm trying to say is that there are possibilities. First, how do we challenge this decision? Through court. Secondly, I am not arguing at all (I also highlighted this fact in reply to the last question) that we could open negotiations here with the legislator and also with the Ministry of Justice on the issue of the legislator's wider possibilities for supervision. For this reason alone, it concerns both the opposition and the coalition, that we have expressed the same will in relation to our special service. For example, a special committee on the supervision of security authorities has been set up for this purpose. Service supervision can touch a little on other subjects of administration, incorrect administrative decisions within the organisation, after all budgetary issues and waste of money, but not pre-trial decisions. I wouldn't want to live in a country where the Minister of Justice determines the decisions to be taken by the prosecutor's office in criminal proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U58	I will stop dealing with this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U59	Eldar Efendiev, Enn Eesmaa, Heimar Lenk, Jüri Ratas, Kadri Simson, Mailis Reps, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Tarmo Tamm, Urbo Vaarmann, Viktor Vassilyev, Vladimir Velman and Yana Toom, members of the Riigikogu, have submitted the following question and it deals with the quality agreement of state secondary schools and the workload of teachers. On behalf of the heirs, please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U60	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu and ministers! Our inquiry is driven by a number of issues and one of them is the quality agreement between state secondary schools, which the Minister of Education and Research concluded on 25 April with the directors of six state secondary schools and with the representatives of students and teachers. But the range of questions is a little wider, it also concerns the workload of teachers and the positions of the new minister. More specifically, on 25 April, the Minister of Education and Science Jevgeni Ossinovski, the directors of six state secondary schools and representatives of students and teachers signed a quality agreement for state secondary schools, which for the first time lays down the responsibilities of the parties at upper secondary school level as well as expectations for each other. In the light of the agreement reached, the issue of teachers' workload also arose. In particular, during the major disputes of last year in the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, the part concerning contact hours was abolished, i.e. how much must the teacher be in front of the class in the event of a full load. The 35-hour working time is currently in force, and despite the strong opposition of the teachers' representative organisations, the majority of the Riigikogu of that time decided that 18 to 24 contact hours would no longer be regulated by law and that teachers themselves would have to agree with the management of their school. The reform of education also abolished the level of qualification of teachers. The former youth teachers, educators, senior teachers, and methodological teachers have become teachers. The quality agreement of state secondary schools states that the teacher is a professional in his field, who meets the qualification requirements and constantly develops his professional skills. Of course, the teacher is the key to everyday life and development at the upper secondary school. At the same time, teachers' own concerns and views have been sidelined. That is why we are asking the new minister for his views. Firstly, how and to what extent Mr Ossinovski will continue to work with state secondary schools and whether new agreements are to be concluded. We want to know what happens to upper secondary school education in counties, whether there is an agreement on the establishment of state secondary schools in all counties. Of course, the quality indicators of the learning environment should also be looked at how the weekly workload and contact hours of teachers are fixed. We are also interested to see whether the Minister considers, in the same way as the Social Democrats at the night hearing, that normative burdens should be laid down again by law. What, then, is a reasonable teacher's weekly hourly load, and what must be the qualifications of teachers when the levels of accreditation have been abolished?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U61	Please respond to the inquiry by Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Education and Science!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U62	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! First of all, I will comment on the statement in the introduction that teachers do not have any confidence that they will not have to give 35 subjects per week, or full-time "contact hours." Here I say that the headmaster cannot advise the teacher to give 35 hours instead of the current contact hours, such as 18 to 24 hours. Such a fundamental change of duties requires a change in the contract of employment, which is possible only by agreement between the parties to the contract, in accordance with § 12 of the Employment Contracts Act. But let's get to the questions. The first question: 'You have said that you will continue to work with state secondary schools from where agreements on the opening of state secondary schools have been concluded or concluded. The quality agreement of state upper secondary schools states that students are guaranteed a selective and high-quality upper secondary school education in all counties. Does this mean that, for all Estonian counties, an agreement has already been concluded or is being concluded for the establishment of state secondary schools? ' The idea of a quality agreement was born in schools themselves and its content was agreed in cooperation between pupils, teachers and school leaders, school managers. This is the vision that we are moving towards together and where we want to go. The aim of state secondary schools is to provide students with a choice-rich and high-quality upper secondary school education and its availability in every county. According to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, the state undertakes to hold at least one upper secondary school in each county. I would stress that state secondary schools are created only in cooperation with local governments and on the basis of agreements. In this academic year there are five state secondary schools in four counties: two state secondary schools or the Nõo Realgymnasium and the Noarootsi Gymnasium and the Viljandi Gymnasium, the Läänemaa Common Gymnasium in Haapsalu and Jõgevamaa Gymnasium in Jõgeva. In the academic year 2015/2016 Jõhvi state gymnasium, Pärnu state gymnasium, Tartu state gymnasium and Võru state gymnasium start their activities. In the 2016/2017 academic year, the state gymnasium of Hiiumaa, the state gymnasium of Põlva and the state gymnasium of Valga begin work. An agreement has also been concluded for the years 2017/2018 or 2018/2019, depending on the progress of the project, for the establishment of the state gymnasium in Kohtla-Järve. The local government council has also proposed the establishment of the state gymnasium by Viimsi, Paide linn, Saue city, Saue municipality, Harku municipality, Saku municipality, Keila city, Koeru municipality, Kadrina municipality, Haljala municipality, Kuusalu municipality, Maardu city, Rapla municipality and Elva city. On my own initiative, I have also proposed to negotiate the creation of state secondary school in the towns of Tallinn and Narva, but agreements have not yet been reached. The second question: 'The agreement between the Ministry of Education and Research and state secondary schools set out quality indicators for the education and learning environment of state secondary schools. As the quality agreement provides for the teacher's full participation in school life, is it also intended to fix the number of weekly contact hours for teachers in state secondary schools or what workload does the agreement provide for teachers? ' State secondary schools provide contact hours according to the law. The number of contact hours can be agreed between the teacher and the school manager and fixed in the contract of employment. The teacher's post is based on state secondary school as a whole, as well as municipal and other schools. This method values all the components of teaching work, including full participation in school life, and introduces an understanding that a teacher is not just a tutor. The third question: "Do you think that the standard burden on teachers should be regulated at the level of the law? What do you think is a reasonable week's time spent by teachers so that the teacher can also devote himself to supervising research, preparing selective courses, improving the work, etc.? ' With the Government Union agreement, we have planned discussions between partners to find out what are the concerns of teachers about the organisation of their work due to these changes. The general working time and workload of teachers are currently regulated by law on a full-time basis of 35 hours per week. It must include all the duties of a teacher. Continuous overtime, which has also been discussed from time to time, is not in line with the meaning of the Employment Contracts Act. We have the relevant authorities to monitor compliance with the Employment Contract Act. The current legal framework also allows the parties to the employment relationship to agree on the number of contact hours in the employment contract. The weekly limit of contact hours laid down by law is certainly associated with its own dangers. In practice, where the employer assigned a fixed number of hours of study and education to all teachers in full-time employment at school, it was unreasonable because he did not take account of the freedom of agreement of the parties in the employment relationship and did not in any way guarantee equal treatment of workers, since the tasks other than teaching and education hours were not taken into account when the workload developed. A single threshold also hampers the integration of substances and makes it difficult for teachers to use all their strengths in their work and to produce additional skills. This was also the view expressed by the school leaders' association I met a few days ago. Of course, the functioning of this whole system requires good, competent school leaders who can value their teachers, and we should definitely move towards ensuring that all Estonian school leaders meet this criterion. I will also bring in information about the actual number of contact hours of teachers in different schools from the Estonian Education Information System. In most cases, the teachers' standard load in Estonian schools is between 18 and 24 hours, 21% of teachers have it less than 18 hours per week, 21% have it 25 to 29 hours, and then there are a few anomalous cases where some teachers work in several schools and several jobs. For the most part, they have wanted to get so many lessons on their own free will. Based on these data, there was also a clear message from the school leaders that the problem is in individual schools. However, this means that specific cases of problem should be dealt with, there is no reason to re-establish these requirements in the law. The day after tomorrow, I will meet representatives of the Estonian Federation of Educational Workers to discuss the same issue with them. At our first meeting with the Union Chair, we came to the understanding in the debate on this issue that there is no screaming problem in schools. Some educators are afraid that the director may send him to class for 35 hours, but generally this has not come true. In the event that the Estonian Association of School Leaders, the Estonian Educational Workers' Association and local authorities reach the conviction that a recommended standard burden should be agreed, I am prepared to discuss these proposals in every way, based on the agreement of the Government Association. But first we need to find out what the problem is and how extensive it really is. Question 4: 'The quality agreement of state secondary schools states that the teacher of state secondary schools develops his or her professional skills. Until now, however, there has been talk of creating a professional system, but until now there is no more accurate knowledge of the nature of the new professional system. Please explain what will be the skills system for teachers! ' This is a rather broad and important subject, and I believe that this could also be discussed in greater depth in the Riigikogu Committee on Culture. Here I can say some of the most important aspects of this. From 1 January 2014 onwards, it will no longer be possible to assign grades to teachers, as they have moved to a professional system that is part of Estonia's general qualification system. The Professional Council for Education has approved four professional standards for the teaching profession. The professional standard document describes the professional activities and the competence required for a particular profession, i.e. a set of skills, knowledge and attitudes needed to make the work a success. At present, you can apply for a certificate of qualification at teacher level 7.1 and 7.2, which is a senior teacher. Invitations are given by the Estonian Teachers' Association, who was granted this right by the Education Professional Council. At the meeting of the Education Professional Council on 22 May, the Estonian Teachers' Association was also chosen as a professional teacher at level 6 and a master teacher at level 8. All teachers have the opportunity to apply for an invitation if they so wish. Professional examinations are taken twice a year by the professional in April and November. The professional has developed an invitation procedure, an assessment standard and a working guide to the evaluation committee. All the above documents have been drawn up for each professional standard and have been approved by the professional council. The evaluation will take place in two stages: the first will assess compliance with the invitation on the basis of documents and the second will be interviewed. The assessment standard provides, for example, that an hourly survey is to be carried out if necessary. One of the documents to be submitted in the first round of evaluation is the teacher's portfolio, which should provide an overview of the practical implementation of the competence described in the professional standard in the work to date. All of this will be assessed by the evaluation committee. The Ministry of Education has allocated EUR 37000 this year to support the implementation of the professional system. The Estonian Teachers' Association has received EUR 7000 from the HTM for outreach and training. In addition, the professional can apply for funding for training, information and other relevant activities from the Innove Foundation, to which HTM provided an additional EUR 30000 for this purpose by contract. Universities will bring teacher training and curricula into line with the teacher's new professional standard by 2015 at the latest, after which they will be able to give graduates a first-time qualification, i.e. teacher level 7.1. The competence described in the professional standard is also the basis for continuing education for teachers. Support material financed by ESF resources has been created to implement professional standards and to support the assessment of the professional development of the teacher. The whole system is currently in operation. In the first round of applications, the number of applicants was not excessive. One reason for this is certainly that there are still old grades with pay differences. There will certainly be a growing interest in qualifications over time. At the same time, since the development of professional skills also requires, of course, financial expenses for the acquisition of a profession costs.., it is an important question to maintain the motivation of teachers to develop their skills. During the meeting with the school leaders' association, the message remained clear that the school leaders are fully prepared to provide motivational systems in the organisation of their school. State schools, i.e. state secondary schools, link professional certificates to the principles and procedures of remuneration. With state secondary schools, we also try to set an example for all the rest of the schools and motivate teachers to improve their professional skills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U63	Thank you. This is certainly one issue that has already been discussed and will continue to be discussed. I do not think that a unilateral solution can be found. I myself am in favour of compulsory certification of school leaders in cooperation between the Ministry, the local government, the Federation of Educational Workers and the School Leaders Association. In other words, in the current situation, where the contracts of our school leaders are timeless, it is actually very difficult to guarantee the quality of school administration and I think that compulsory accreditation, as in some other educational sphere, could be one solution. But I also think that this solution requires a little more in-depth discussion in both the Riigikogu and the educational public so that it can be reasonably applied.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U64	Andrus Ansip, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U65	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, In your reply, you said that the coalition would continue to establish state secondary schools. I'd like to know what your attitude is towards state secondary schools. Will you continue to set up upper secondary schools because that's what was agreed and it's kind of embarrassing to quit? Or are you convinced that this is a good and right thing that will help young people to acquire quality education close to home?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U66	I think that sometimes it is not worthwhile to continue the things that were never done if they have not proved reasonable. But this particular thing, however, is usually reasonable. When we talk about large cities, i.e. the integration of upper secondary school education into a single school, then it is possible to provide age-appropriate and selective education, with a clear goal, say, academic education after graduation, or preparation for university. I think that the examples we now have in Viljandi, in particular, but also elsewhere, suggest that the direction towards larger cities, or county centres, is actually the right one. In smaller places, I'm sure it's a little different. But I think that in large cities, the creation of state secondary schools, i.e. the separation of upper secondary school from basic education, is generally reasonable. Above all, not in terms of saving money, which has been well spoken about, but precisely to ensure the quality of education. The more upper secondary school students are together in one school, the greater the school's opportunity to ensure a diverse upper secondary school education, the ability to offer more electives, study courses, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U67	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U68	I will stop dealing with this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U69	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. My question concerns the state gymnasium that will be created in Pärnu. You yourself have just visited Koidula High School. The financing of the construction of this state gymnasium was accompanied by certain conditions for the city of Pärnu. One of the conditions was the promise by the Mayor of Pärnu that the Koidula Gymnasium, which covers upper secondary school classes, will provide education to 648 students in the first year of activity and to 720 students in the future. The agreement with the Ministry stated that the city of Pärnu must ensure that this number of students come to the upper secondary school. There is currently a process of formalising the admission documents and it can be seen that there is not too much penetration of this upper secondary school in the first year. Do you confirm that if the state gymnasium that starts in Pärnu creates four parallel classes, for example, as it is at the Treffner gymnasium in Tartu, there will be no sanctions and this state gymnasium will receive all the funding even though there are fewer students than were originally planned?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U70	Questions for the Minister. Jaak Aaviksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U71	Thank you. Mr. Minister! I am pleased that you made quite clear the importance of the institution of school leaders in implementing all the necessary reforms. As we know, the competence model of the head of school has been agreed and partly introduced. Can you say as specifically as possible what is still meant to strengthen the institution of school leaders, including the replacement of municipal school leaders who do not fully meet the requirements of their profession?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U72	Such agreements with local authorities as I said, state gymnasiums are still created only in cooperation with local governments and on the basis of agreements, I believe that the changes concerning the rest of the school network, which are directly related to the establishment of state secondary schools, should also be included. I don't know what to say right now about the decision to sign up for a specific number of students. But basically, when this school is finished, it's a state school, which the state also finances a hundred percent. In this sense, I do not see the possibility of imposing any sanctions on Pärnu City Government, unless the students want to come. But I hope the students come.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U73	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Rules of Procedure allow one question to be asked here. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U74	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! You spoke of the teachers' standard burdens in this key that you have not now received information from school leaders or elsewhere, as if there were a large number of schools with on average much more than 18 to 24 hours in operation. I'll ask you the other way around. There is one concern that was raised during the procedure. In the past, the teacher's normal load, such as 18 hours, was taken into account as a full load. But now, for example, this teacher is considered to be worth only EUR 400 or EUR 500, saying that he does not have a full load. Has this been the case with the Ministry of Education, through school leaders, the Federation of Educational Workers or other trade unions, with the information that teachers are under an incomplete burden because they believe that they do not give enough classrooms?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U75	In this particular aspect, I should clarify whether there have been complaints in this particular key. But there have certainly been complaints that the full burden on teachers has been reduced to some extent before the school year began, and teachers have therefore started to receive less pay. Unfortunately, these teachers have not turned to the relevant institutions, but have seen it as something which they must sign in any case. It is worth stressing here that the contract of employment is a bilateral document and that all major changes must be bilaterally agreed. Yes, indeed, there are municipalities where there have been such problems. Teachers are told to take it or you can't have it. But I don't think that's a systemic problem. Where there are particular concerns, they should be dealt with. If our ministry has been approached with specific complaints, we have asked our external evaluation department to investigate the matter and, if necessary, to monitor it, to assist with communication with the Labour Inspectorate, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U76	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U77	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. In my opinion, for the first time in this Chamber, the idea was that the state could begin to squeeze the principal of municipal school, to put it mildly. I have a question, do you have any information on how many directors have been released in recent years because of incompetence?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U78	Thank you. These decisions are not, say, public. We can give some statistics (I don't have it at hand) about public schools. But in the case of local governments, as a schoolmaster, the municipality can decide to replace the director. The basis for this is not always quite clear. The Director may leave with the agreement of the parties, but on which basis, in particular, we do not see this as a purely decision. So this is the problem right now, because there is no accreditation system, we do not know to what extent the problem really is. When dealing with different schools, e.g. by looking at the quality of education, the achievement of learning outcomes, the approach of teachers to the ministry, the trade union, etc., we understand when there is a problem with the headmaster. However, since the Ministry essentially does not have the opportunity to say anything about this, except in the event of a specific breach of the law, we do not have a full picture of it at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U79	No further questions. Do the heirs want to negotiate? They do. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U80	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! First of all, it is a pleasure to have another discussion on matters that have been part of the last Riigikogu and must say that during the previous Riigikogu, too, it is quite a matter of debate. However, it is interesting to observe the softness of the Minister of the Social Democratic Party on quite a number of topics, which his attitude during the night sessions, last June, at least on state secondary schools, was very black and white. So it is not justified to ask the former Prime Minister whether you will continue the current course simply or because the agreements have been concluded and cannot be better. As far as state secondary schools are concerned, the positions of those counties which have made their decisions and have also entered into negotiations are, of course, justified. The expectation for the new coalition is that we must continue in the current direction. The decisions taken by these regions are mainly based on concerns about investment opportunities. If European Union money and Estonian co-financing are directed only at state secondary schools, then of course everyone has an interest in being on this moneyboat. The question is, of course, whether the priority of the Ministry of Education and Research is still the establishment of state secondary schools in the next structural period or whether municipal secondary schools can also receive public funding for upper secondary school in certain cases. I believe that, in this case, contracts for state secondary schools may be reduced in quite a number of regions. One way or another, it is important that this project does not remain a 'political applause' for a single period, and state secondary schools will not be owned by anyone in time. After all, we remember from history the school of Nõo as a typical example of how the country was not a very good host, despite its very good quality of study, the municipal school of Nõo and the upper secondary school of Nõo were very different. As a simple example, where a public school began, the wall began to crumble. The condition of the toilets was that they had to go there with a key. In general, public schools were found to be heavily underfunded. And indeed, until now, for example, in schools for children with special needs, the state has not been the best investment partner nor is it substantive support. We hope that, as time passes, the state gymnasiums will not go the same way. The second issue concerns the working hours of teachers. Indeed, the greatest concern that has come to me from the teachers' representative organisations, but certainly also from the wider range, is that up to now, 18 to 24 hours in full-time accounting gave rise to a great blow, and now 35 hours of work are interpreted quite arbitrarily. Very many teachers who have had full-time according to their current workload have already heard about September that due to the revised funding models, the school budget and the substantive work they will no longer sign a full-time contract in the new academic year. Instead, a contract of employment is offered, according to which wages are much lower than the minimum set for full-time work. The question of whether teachers should accept it or not is, of course, the issue of awareness, I agree with that. But the main issue in the whole debate on the amendment of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act was how often we come to the weaker side, i.e. to support the teacher in a situation where the headmaster tells him quite strongly to take or leave. This choice is often made by the teacher primarily based on his place of residence, his place of employment, and his family, rather than on a more beneficial basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U81	Jaak Aaviksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U82	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that education, despite different political concepts, has gradually achieved consistency and confidence that the experience gained by the official body and the entire intellectual community is worth at least as much as a political initiative and a desire for certain narrow interest groups to like and thereby serve political advantage. That is why I do not see the problem of voting once in this Chamber in a different way, because the policy that is considered and based on analysis is consistent and invests in such a large and slow-moving area as education. I am also pleased that the current Minister for Education and Research stressed the need to strengthen the institution of the head of school and the importance of the education life. We are accustomed to stressing the importance of a student and professor, a student and a teacher, both in general education schools and universities, as if they were the beginning and end of the entire life of education, sometimes forgetting the fundamental meaning of reasonable or vice versa, unreasonable teaching, working and living arrangements in educational institutions. I therefore believe that the proposed reforms, whether they concern teachers' working conditions, wage conditions, educational requirements or school education culture, depend primarily and most on the capacity, motivation and education of the heads of education institutions. I therefore wish the Minister of Education and the Ministry of Education the strength to bite this rather hard nut. The demand for these officials has sometimes been less than the training and additional opportunities offered to them. I think now is the time to raise the bar of demands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U83	A few words for Mailis Reps. Indeed, I think that many of us in this Chamber, when this change was voted on in the evening hours, were afraid that in schools it might get out of hand for the teacher. And that is why, on the basis of the positions that have been defended here, it is also recorded in the agreement of the Government Union that the various parties must be heard and discussed among themselves what concerns are. I am certainly convinced that the same Estonian Federation of Educational Workers could be a partner for the Ministry in the sense that the interests of teachers can be protected. However, on the basis of initial contacts with different actors, both with the School Leaders Association and with the Alliance of Educational Workers, it can now be said that there are no major fundamental problems with this new system. And if there are no big problems, it would be strange to start changing the law because there were once different views. However, should such a need arise and this issue also arise during the day after tomorrow's meeting, I am certainly willing to discuss these matters. As regards financing in the next period of the European Union, general education infrastructure funding is not only intended for state secondary schools. Of the EUR 240 million planned for general education investments, nearly half will actually go to the municipalities where the upper secondary school network is organised in the first phase, but also to others through the open application round. The main limitation to these measures is that investment should result in the school network becoming more efficient and optimal, and this is certainly a reasonable objective. In addition to the EUR 240 million already mentioned, a significant amount of money has been planned for the reconstruction of public schools for HEV2 children, I think, to which reference was made. Their infrastructure does not always meet the needs, but some objects are already being built and soon we will have a clear picture of how the network of public schools for HEV2 children will look in 2020 with the support of the European Union taxpayer.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U84	The members of the Riigikogu have no more requests to speak. Would the Minister like to make a statement? Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U85	An inquiry into the Chevrons has been submitted by Esther Tuiksoo, Kalev Kallo, Lauri Laas, Peeter Võsa, Priit Toobal, Tarmo Tamm, Urbo Vaarmann and Valeri Korb on 8 May. Lauri Laas, on behalf of the inquisitors, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U86	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to introduce you to the Minister of Education and Science, Jevgeni Ossinovski. The question is, indeed, about the students. The student's project is a youth project, through which young people can take healthful and developing leave and also acquire work habits. Many young people get their first work experience, pay for their work results, and the opportunity to participate in interesting collective activities with their peers after the end of the working day. The chess dove will start again in Estonia soon. Unfortunately, this time, too, we have to admit that there are fewer chess places than there are wanters, so many young people have to find other activities instead of chess for the summer. For years, there has been a situation in which vacant chess positions fill in just a few hours. This year registration started on April 29th and, according to the Student Information Foundation, 90 applications were received in the first five minutes of the most popular children's zoo group 30, 45 minutes after the start of the registration a record number of 2356 applications was received. Our three questions to the Minister for Education have been asked precisely to clarify what we could do about the chess so that more and more of our children could be part of the chess. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U87	Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Education and Science, responds to the inquiry.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U88	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will answer the questions asked after a brief introduction. Certainly, the provision of chess is extremely positive, as Mr Laas said. It is important that young people are already in school age to have their first work experience and, as far as possible, should be supported by the state. The country has also done so; support for chess has increased year after year. This year, student chess activities will be financed with EUR 120000, i.e. 4800 posts will be supported. Of course, there could be greater support, but it cannot be said that the state has absolutely not dealt with it. On the other hand, it should be noted that chess work is certainly not the only or even the predominant way of working for young people in the summer. The survey carried out shows that in 2013 4510 young people were employed as students, which is 34% of all young people who worked during the summer, so 66% of young people worked elsewhere. And tax receipts show that young people who worked elsewhere received much more pay than those who worked in chess. This is certainly not a criticism of the chess, but simply information that young people have other opportunities to work and are actively used. Let's get to the questions. The first question: 'In order to motivate employers to offer more seats to the Chevrons, the Centre Party Group launched a draft in 2011 which would have freed employers from paying social tax for the students. This draft is still in the Committee on Culture drawer. What is your view on this? ' I am not going to discuss why this bill is in the drawer, I am sure the members of the Committee on Culture will know better. This bill had, from an official perspective, certain shortcomings, to which the Government of the Republic drew attention, expressing its opinion on the calculation of pensions and also on some other issues. The main concern, which is partly the answer to the second question, is that there is still no in-depth analysis of the extent to which this change would actually have affected employers' decision to create more casts. It may seem simple, logical and reasonable that if we reduce the social tax burden on the Chevrons, there will automatically be more places. In fact, the initial assessments made in cooperation with our ministry and other parties are not entirely certain and should be analysed in more detail. Question two: '2012. In 2004, the Minister of Education and Science announced at the meeting of the Cabinet that he would propose a social tax incentive for employers who are younger in order to increase the number of jobs of young people. Today we are in 2014 and the country has not come from words to deeds. What is behind the exemption from social tax for young people working in school? ' Basically, as Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas said a few weeks ago in the Riigikogu Question Time, I cannot say exactly what the content and the decisions of the debate in that cabinet were, apart from the fact that the proposal of the Minister of Education and Research was taken into account. I have realised that there was a disagreement as to whether or not to introduce a tax credit for a particular target group. The Minister for Education and Research, the Minister for Finance, the Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister for Economic Affairs was invited to continue the debate on the extension of youth employment opportunities. This debate has continued not only in relation to the tax system or tax matters, but also in other matters. And, in fact, it is extremely reasonable that this debate has reached the Riigikogu, because I think it is not just a matter of agreement between the government departments, but a broader issue. March 18th s. a the Cultural Committee of the Riigikogu has discussed the situation of young people on the labour market. On 21 April, a parliamentary hearing of the Social Committee took place on the topic 'Language relations'. On 6 May, the Committee on Culture discussed the employment relations of minors in order to encourage young people to enter the labour market. I hope that the discussions will continue and that decisions will be reached at some point. I also consider it appropriate to discuss the proposal that you have mentioned when an analysis has been made of whether social tax differentiation promotes young people's access to employment in the most effective way or whether there are better ways of doing so. Prime Minister Rõivas has expressed the opinion that it would be more sensible to encourage it with greater support from the state, as this would be a more effective measure. I think we could come to some sort of agreement. The third question: 'According to the Ravi Insurance Act, persons treated as insured persons are all young people up to 19 years of age. Thus, in fact, the tax on the social tax is double for the Chevrons. The state guarantees their health insurance, but all social tax from the employer is still paid in. Why is this discrimination against young people included in the law? " However, this cannot be called real discrimination. The state pays social tax for those who do not work and for those who are in certain high-risk groups. In general, it is still the idea that people in employment relationships pay social tax. I have already mentioned, apart from the issue of health insurance, the issue of calculating pensions in the case of social security contributions. The Ministry of Education offered its solution in order to avoid that time worked in chess would not be included in the retirement age and that working in chess would put young people at a disadvantage compared to the general labour law. As I said, so far, no concrete decisions have been reached in this debate. I think that the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu and the Committee on Social Affairs could work together to reach agreements on this issue and start planning real changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U89	Thank you. Sorry, the buttons went crazy. Questions for the Minister. Lauri Laasi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U90	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much for these very meaningful answers. I ask you, since local governments can support students in addition to the state, how do you think local governments have so far put down the chess shoulders.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U91	Regrettably, I don't have that stats on me, but it's out there, but the remote hasn't gotten here. I can give you this statistics separately. Indeed, quite a number of municipalities have supported students themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U92	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U93	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! You stopped for quite a while at what Taavi Kõivas told us last week and maybe another minister on another occasion. It is clear that for employers, according to the information provided by the Student Foundation, there are several obstacles and they also sounded very clearly at the expanded meeting of the Committee on Culture. One of the questions raised was about social tax, and employers rightly asked why they had so-called double taxation; they have already paid the state anyway. Or why can't there at least be any benefits, as they already have a lot of expense and trouble to get any benefits when they hire children or young people? In addition, there is a whole list of jobs, such as in Ida-Viru County, where young people cannot be taken into, such as the chemical industry in the broadest sense. Have you been provided with information on this, and what do you think of it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U94	Thank you. I say again that I do not think they will be taxed twice. However, it can certainly be discussed whether young people of school age are a target group whose recruitment should somehow be subsidised financially by the State. I have no objection, in principle, if this is the most effective way to achieve the objective, but according to the experts' assessment, there is a real need for some more effective state support. But let's keep analyzing this and see what comes out of it. As far as this issue of prohibited jobs is concerned, I am not a specialist in labour law, but I have realised that it is quite difficult for Estonia to impose much less restrictive conditions, as this area is quite highly regulated in the European Union. And the range that we're going through with our rules isn't overly free either. This is, of course, an important issue because, on the one hand, we would certainly like to encourage young people to work in the summer, but, on the other, as a country, we must ensure that they do not work in health-damaging jobs. It is important to find a balance and I hope that the Committee on Culture, together with the Committee on Social Affairs, will reach a consensus on how this can be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U95	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U96	Thank you. Dear speaker, Mr. Minister, I still remember those times when Edgar Savisaar was a student-creating commander. He has been the most popular chess commander of all time. His chess was composed of 14000, 18,000 and more participants. The chess dove was opened about as festively as we are now opening a song party. Doesn't it seem to you that the ministry's work in decorating young people's summer has not been enthusiastic enough? This has still not been taken very seriously in today's Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U97	In the meantime, employment relations have generally changed a little. As I said, 34% of young people working in the summer work in chess jobs, while the rest are in other jobs. When we look at how much money these young people made, in 2013 young people aged 7 to 18 made more than 10 million euros in total, about one million, or just a tenth, of it. So a third of the jobs, but a tenth of the salary. Young people have actually found more profitable ways to work than chess, which does not mean, of course, that we should not have to offer them these places. But we need to understand that it is in many young people's own interests to find a job in the private sector, some other place outside of chess, and that has been done.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U98	Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U99	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I sincerely hope that you will not give priority to this amount of money, because the purpose of the camp is something else. But I ask you if you've been in chess or at work when you were young, and if so, whether it was good for you or bad for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U100	I've been to work, and I'm sure it worked, but I haven't been to chess.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U101	Andrus Ansip, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U102	Thank you. First of all, a small amount of out-of-the-box was never the commander of the Estonian Student Ensemble. He's been a student chief, and he was a very good commissioner. When we discussed the proposal of the Centre Party to exempt the Chevrons from social tax, the vast majority of us felt that the proposal was justified in this part of the social tax that goes to health insurance. Since students are insured at the health insurance fund anyway, it is not very justified to charge them extra and we considered that, in principle, this bill should be further worked on. This could make hiring Chevrons more attractive to employers. What is your personal view of this exemption? I agree, of course, in principle, with all those who believe that the simplicity, clarity and transparency of the tax system is a very high value which should not be easily distorted.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U103	I must repeat myself and say again that we should take the most effective measures. If it is considered that it is most effective to support young people's employment during the summer by means of tax differentiation, I think that this could be done. If it is found not to provide sufficient motivation, different solutions must be found. The Ministry of Education is ready to take an active part and has already actually taken a part in both the Committee on Culture and the Committee on Social Affairs on how to encourage school pupils to work during the summer.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U104	No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Inquiries? Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U105	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu and Minister! First of all, I would like to thank the former Prime Minister and future Commissioner, Andrus Ansip, for this clarification, because I must say that the current Prime Minister was unable to find any record last week of what was discussed and decided by the Cabinet in its day. At least for the sake of the verbatim, it is now specified here. Indeed, the government's position was not so much that the draft must certainly continue to be dealt with, as the government is drawing up its own plan to involve students and other young people who spend summer and school holidays in working life, how to expand the possibilities of their internship, how to gain their experience. It is very sad to say that, although it has been several years since 2011, the government has not offered any approach, with the exception of direct payments to the camp or to the chess. At this point, I will once again make a call. This new coalition, the new minister, think seriously about it! These opportunities must be created! The fact that the chess is filled in 15 minutes shows young people's interest. It has also become clear that our employers do not have sufficient interest. A number of issues were raised in the meeting of the Committee on Culture, which has already been mentioned. One of these is, for example, the fact that, at regional level, employers have been subject to many restrictions on the recruitment of minors, with a great deal of bureaucracy, and the Labour Inspectorate has a keen interest in these employers. All such failures are the reason why employers do not want to have sex with young people. The restrictions imposed on these young people when they work are also often not justified. For example, when Ida-Virumaa sent the whole county summary to the Committee on Culture, the whole register of jobs where young people are not allowed to work was provided. When you look at the structure of this county, basically places where students could work aren't much left. In the chemical industry, perhaps the simple logic is that there are certain dangerous jobs. However, apart from this industry, it does not make much sense, as did the representatives of young people and local authorities in the Committee on Culture. These are the actual nodes right now. Of course, this summer we can no longer make any changes. But if, for example, we took this matter now in the autumn and even if we took a few steps, then perhaps next year we should not say again that in 15 minutes all the jobs offered were filled and the rest of the young people themselves have to look for jobs as much as they can. I will give you an example of some of the markants here. In open-air performances, youth involvement has been quite common, say, for larger concerts, but trouble can arise when alcohol is offered at an event. Even in the case of the harvest team, there have been a number of aspiring officials who have decreed that young people should not be exposed to the cleaning of the site where alcohol has been consumed. In some places, such as the collection of these cups, we could still understand the limits of reasonableness and, above all, the benefits of getting a little work experience. Perhaps this is not the best and most purposeful job, but I am sure that most members of the Riigikogu will also remember the very different works they have done since their youth, which have not unfortunately come. So, certainly, the exemption from social tax does not have to be the only measure, it is one of many, but it can reduce the employer's additional expectations a little. Perhaps the list of jobs and the accompanying problem area should also be reviewed. There would certainly be more employers who would employ young people for summer and other school holidays if young people wanted to do so. The conclusion of our Committee on Culture also shows that the main observation of youth workers is that young people themselves would very much like to go to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U106	There's no more calls. The Minister doesn't want a word either. I will stop dealing with this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U107	Enn Eesmaa, Ester Tuiksoo, Mailis Reps, Olga Sõtnik, Peeter Võsa, Tarmo Tamm, Valeri Korb, Viktor Vassilyev and Vladimir Velman have submitted an inquiry on 19 May to value the work of kindergarten teachers. On behalf of the heirs, please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U108	Dear Chairman, Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Minister, thank you very much. The following is the topic of valuing the work of kindergarten teachers. We started a dialogue on this with the Minister a few weeks ago and it is a pleasure to continue this on Monday evening. In the Riigikogu, we have a draft law amending the law on pre-school children's institution and one of the positive points of this draft is that the subject of kindergarten teachers has been getting the attention of the Riigikogu over a long time. This is why the topic of kindergarten teachers and kindergarten managers, early education teachers has reached the Committee on Culture and here the main hall. They have initiated the issue of kindergarten places, the value of salaries and the content of their work and, of course, their holidays. Now, to summarise briefly what kindergarten teachers are concerned about, this is as follows. Several years ago, a qualification framework was established for kindergarten teachers, according to which Estonian kindergarten teachers are now teachers with higher education. As a result, they have also received ongoing training. All kindergarten managers, now kindergarten directors, this is a law amendment that I still have not understood why kindergarten managers became all directors, but this is also the case with constant training and most of them are with a master's degree. Of course, kindergarten teachers expect them to be evaluated in the same way as school teachers, step by step, at least at the level of the schoolteacher. Unfortunately, the minimum wage rates for teachers vary considerably between municipalities. There have been some exceptional years, and one of them was when an interesting program like 'Every child's kindergarten place' was created. The state proposed support for the local government when the minimum wage for kindergarten teachers was set at the same level as for school teachers and so the state programme provided support for the salaries of kindergarten teachers. That is why our first question arises. Since the coalition agreement has such a programme, although in a slightly different wording, but still a kindergarten program, we wonder if and if, to what extent you plan to introduce the share of teachers' salaries into your programme this time. The second question concerns working time. In September, a new regulation introduced a working week of 35 hours for kindergarten teachers. When it was said so far that 30 hours is a group job and 5 hours is a preparation and other work, now it's just a 35-hour working week. Surely the current minister remembers that during the autumn months, there was quite a debate about this when many kindergarten teachers learned to their frustration that he must now be in the group 35 hours a week. To what extent are you familiar with this subject? How do you intend to specify how many times it has been mentioned that the Ministry of Education and Research is definitely planning clarifications? The last and quite painful problem is that at present, kindergarten teachers' leave lasts 42 calendar days, while the schoolteacher and the teacher get 56 days of leave. This situation is felt in each kindergarten as a painful injustice and from members of the Riigikogu, but certainly the current minister is expected to be relieved one day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U109	Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Education and Science, responds to the inquiry. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U110	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Before I answer questions, I certainly think it necessary to say that the average wage of kindergarten teachers in Estonia is shamefully low. There are municipalities that have worked hard and where the wage level is higher, but there are also those where it is really abnormally low. For example, in 2011, the wage rate of the teacher with a teacher's grade was the highest in pre-school children's institutions in Harjumaa and Tartu County, 684 euros and 637 euros respectively. The two are the largest kindergarten teachers' salaries in the Estonian counties. The lowest wage is 559 euros in Ida-Virumaa. In my opinion, this is an entirely abnormal situation if local authorities do not value professionals. Of course, in such situations, it is still desirable for the state to come and tell us how much this minimum wage should be. We have drawn from the fact that, if the state supports a certain level of education, it also has the right to set a minimum wage, i.e. to require compliance with some conditions in cases where state funding exists. Pre-school children's institution, with the exception of a few exceptions, e.g. Estonian language education etc., is fully financed by the local government. In this situation, I think it would certainly be unreasonable for the state to set a minimum wage without giving money for it. A quick calculation of the amount of the loan, which is certainly not accurate, but simply to imagine the order of magnitude, shows that if the average grade salary is 643 euros, raising it to 800 euros would represent an additional cost of approximately 16 million euros. Under the current law, it should be covered by local authorities who, I think, would not be very happy about it. However, I hope that money will be found without such coercion to raise the salaries of kindergarten teachers. It is appropriate to discuss whether the state should not finance the pre-school institution to some extent. One option is indeed to do this as part of the kindergarten programme. Certainly, the Socialists cannot suspect that this programme is not close to their heart. However, unfortunately, the country's budgetary strategy currently agreed does not have the money to do so, so it cannot be done during this year, but it can be discussed further in the future. At the same time, another way that I personally consider more useful, and which is currently being analysed by the Ministry of Education and Research, is whether the last year of kindergarten should be called zero or preschool, or whether it should not be compulsory for all children. The rate of participation of our children in early childhood education is almost 95% among children aged 4 to 7 years, which is generally very good. However, the 5% who do not participate are often the children who should attend the most in the last year. These are children from more complex socio-economic conditions who, according to studies, benefit most from the fact that they participate in early childhood education, because it prepares them much better for school. The preliminary results of this analysis should be achieved by autumn and then it will be clear how this plan can be implemented and what it could cost the country. I think it would also be reasonable to have a debate on the extent to which the state should finance early childhood education. Let's get to the questions. The first question: 'The coalition agreement signed this spring states that you will return to the 'Every Child's Day Care Place' programme. The most important part of this programme was the harmonisation of the salaries of kindergarten teachers with those of school teachers. The local government received state support only if it led to the minimum wage of teachers in kindergarten teachers. How and to what extent do you plan to implement the programme this time? 'Well, that's a little bit of an assessment of what part of the "Every Child's Kindergarten" program was most important. I certainly do not consider the part concerning investment in the creation of kindergarten places to be of minor importance, and this part of the programme also intends to move forward, with a different name, however, further. In total, almost 5400 children between one and a half and three years of age waited for their place in kindergarten last year. Due to the rapid population growth, 21 local authorities are unable to fulfil their obligation, and the biggest problem is that of young children. It has been agreed that, in order to address the shortage of childcare facilities, a programme will also be launched from the European Union budget period, providing support to local authorities to expand childcare facilities. This is currently planned by the Ministry of Social Affairs for €6.5 million, creating or helping to create 1,200 savings sites, plus a 30% local government own contribution. That is, at least, the current plan. In addition, support for early childhood education and care infrastructure is envisaged as one of the activities of the 'Sustainable development of urban areas' action to ensure that children in kindergartens are kept at home in larger urban areas. The aim is to create opportunities for the creation of 2000 new kindergarten or childcare facilities and the amount of support planned as of December last year is EUR 34 million. The members of the Riigikogu already know that this could help local governments in creating kindergarten places. So much for the program. In addition, I will only say that there is now a concept of early childhood education, which is already in place at some stage, but it should also be completed as a whole in the near future. Then we will certainly present it to the Riigikogu and the public. Thus, the financing of early childhood education at local level could be agreed with the representatives of day-care providers and local authorities. I have also brought some other aspects that could be discussed in the context of the extent to which the state finances early childhood education. The second question: 'Last autumn, by decree of the Government of the Republic, the working hours of educators were changed. While the pre-school teacher had a 35-hour working week, of which the direct education and training was 30 hours, the new regulation only fixed the day-care teacher's working week in 35 hours. What has been the feedback of kindergarten teachers about changing working hours? Do you intend to specify how much of the 35-hour working week must consist of direct education and education? ' Last September, changes to these rules entered into force. Indeed, the most fundamental change is that it is the employer's responsibility to take account of the total time spent on the job, i.e. by general working time and not by contact hours, i.e. training and education hours. Previously, as already indicated, 30 hours of study and education were intended for other activities and 5 hours for other activities. Now it's over time for general work, just like schoolteachers. All activities defined in the national curriculum of the pre-school child institution and the resulting curriculum of the child institution must fit into the teacher's working hours. This, in turn, is based on the conclusion of a contract between the employee and the employer and, of course, the contract of employment requires an agreement between the employee and the employer. In terms of the share of direct education and training, the parties may, if they so wish, agree on a contract of employment or provide for an agreement to be concluded in another form. This means that if it is agreed with a particular kindergarten teacher that he or she is in the group 35 hours a week, the preparation of hours and other tasks for all other activities must be carried out by another worker. To what extent is it reasonable to apply such a thing, I find it difficult to judge. But I believe that here too, in fact, very much depends on a specific director who, yes, is no longer the manager, so that, in the end, the working hours of the employees would still be used as efficiently as possible and the results would be the best. I do not think that it is necessary for the heads of kindergartens to try to achieve any other goals in any way. I guess what they want is for the work team to work as well as they can. It is important that the Director cannot unilaterally advise the teacher to give 35 hours instead of the current 30 contact hours. Such a major change of duties requires a change in the employment contract, which is possible only with the agreement of the parties in accordance with § 12 of the Employment Contracts Act. Indeed, there were different interpretations of the working time of kindergarten teachers in the autumn and HTM received numerous questions on this subject. Various mispractices also spread. For example, more teachers were put in the group at the same time to fill all the hours. The corresponding letters on the new organisation and changes were also sent to parents and the new regulation was cited as a justification. The amendment was also interpreted as an obligation that 35 hours must necessarily be in the group and all other work must be done after that, as "overtime'. All this caused quite legitimate resentment in the faculty, and teachers also turned to the EHL, who in turn turned to the Ministry of Education and Research. During the meetings with the Estonian Educational Workers' Association, we explained the content of the changes and also gave feedback to kindergartens, saying that this practice, which is not in line with the idea of this regulation, must be completed. The situation has returned to normal since the production and distribution of working time information material. Indeed, there have been no further complaints about this lately. Honourable members of the Riigikogu, if you have concrete examples, please contact us! We will certainly analyse, communicate with each other and also advise kindergartens on how to apply the law and this regulation in a reasonable way. Question 3: 'The annual leave of a teacher at a pre-school institution is 42 calendar days. At the same time, for example, the basic school teacher's or teacher's leave is 56 calendar days. When is it planned to harmonise the holiday rates of kindergarten teachers with those of other teachers? " The duration of the leave for kindergarten teachers is based on the specific characteristics of the pre-school institution, where education and education activities are year-round and there are no breaks such as in general education schools. The annual or seasonal activity of a child institution is decided by the municipality or city government on the proposal of the board of trustees in accordance with § 19 (1) of the Pre-School Children's Institution Act. Thus, there are no national breaks defined in pre-school institutions compared to general education schools and early childhood education is provided throughout the year. The working hours and leave of kindergarten teachers are directly linked to the main task of the pre-school institution to provide early childhood education for children. In order to change the leave rate of a kindergarten teacher, you need to know the position of kindergarten owners, or local authorities, and their analysis of the impact of changes on the budget of the local government and on the organisation of education. In principle, this can be discussed, but it obviously entails additional costs for local authorities and is also likely to have an impact on the possibilities of providing early childhood education in local governments in general. If the leave is longer, it means taking more employees on pay or shortening the time spent providing childcare, which is probably not what we want to achieve. When discussing whether to extend the leave of kindergarten teachers or raise their pay, I think the first priority could be to increase their pay. In general, I hope that the local authorities together will all work together to ensure that kindergarten teachers are much more valued in terms of pay than they are now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U111	Questions for the Minister. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U112	Thank you, Mr President. Due to the emergence of kindergarten in the Riigikogu, we have recently been approached by kindergarten teachers, managers and directors with quite a number of concerns. Recently, when I was visiting a kindergarten quite far from Tallinn, I was asked to pass on such a question. If we look at the organisation of our working and rest periods, the law provides for clear rest periods for us adults. The school child can also rest quite calmly during school holidays, including summer holidays. In our kindergartens, however, there is a rather clear and recognizable contingent of children who do not receive any days off during the summer or winter. They come in all year round, 365 days minus rest days. Have you encountered such a problem? How extensive is it, and is there a need to raise awareness among parents?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U113	As I understand it, the question was whether kindergarten children could get a break. I think that this is one of the issues worth discussing in the debate on the concept of early childhood education. In fact, early childhood education is an interesting phenomenon. On the one hand, we do indeed, especially in the older group, provide education, but on the other, we do care for children throughout the age group, especially in the younger group. I dare say that this level of education has a predominant social component. It is also important in primary school, but it is actually prevalent in early childhood education. Thus, early childhood education combines two objectives: on the one hand, the educational objective of helping children prepare for school, on the other hand, the social policy objective of enabling parents to work. Of course, based on this kindergarten social policy measure, working around the year is also guaranteed precisely so that parents can get a job. I do hope that most parents take advantage of their annual leave and at the same time take the child out of kindergarten. Parental leave is not about having a child's rest, it is about being with a child. But since the child's kindergarten is also voluntary, I find it difficult, frankly, to understand how the state should regulate it. Should kindergarten say we're not taking your baby because he's not rested enough? In a situation where a parent has to work, it is certainly not responsible. I suppose that is perhaps more of a question of how to convince parents to spend their holidays with their children, even though I am sure that most parents do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U114	Andrus Ansip, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! Experts from the European Congress of Local and Regional Authorities have confirmed that the division of responsibilities between local governments and central government will be adopted by the public over a period of 10 to 15 years. This means that at least three electoral periods must pass before people become aware of the authority of the local government and the tasks of the central government. Do you think it is clear to the Estonian people that the local government's tasks include managing kindergartens and providing early childhood education?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U116	The answer depends on the meaning of the question: is it clear to all the people of Estonia or on which part of the people of Estonia are clear? I'm sure it's clear to a lot of people. However, given how much I am being approached with, for example, questions about why this or this kindergarten is being reorganised or how one, the other or the third could be done in a kindergarten in a city, it is clearly expected that, in cases where local government decisions are not the most sensible, the state would intervene. I guess that kind of thing makes sense to you. Of course, more important than those specifically responsible for a particular area of administration or industry is that a high-quality service is guaranteed. Of course, the imposition of obligations or the allocation of competences must be fixed so that everyone knows what he is responsible for. On the other hand, in the end, the same shortage of kindergarten places, for example, is a major problem for 21 municipalities. Yes, these municipalities are breaking the law, they are not fulfilling their obligation to provide a kindergarten place for every child. But neither the state nor society have much to gain from the knowledge that municipalities do not fulfil their obligation. In certain cases, it is natural for the state to come to the aid, as is currently planned to support the creation of kindergarten places.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U117	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U118	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. When you started answering questions, you spoke about Harjumaa, Tartumaa and Ida-Virumaa. My first thought was that our esteemed Minister thinks that children are less loved in Ida-Virumaa than in Harjumaa. Am I wrong or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U119	I do not dare say that it is a question of loving children, but it is certainly a question of prioritising education. It may also be that in one county and in the cities of that county, the pay of kindergarten teachers is still extremely low and in another county, which is not much more prosperous in terms of its 'general' figures, the pay is higher. For example, in Valgamaa, the average salary of a kindergarten teacher, a teacher with a teacher's grade is 619 euros, and in Ida-Virumaa it is 559 euros. Valgamaa is not a much richer region than Ida-Virumaa, but it has nevertheless been found. Consequently, everything depends on where the local government decides to spend its money. In some cities, education costs as a whole are often high, but they go to the wrong place, such as maintaining an unreasonable school network. Instead, decisions should be made, as has been done in some cities, and the resources released should be put precisely in the salaries of kindergarten teachers. I would not dare to use the word 'love' in the case of local government as a rather bureaucratic mechanism, but the size of the pay of kindergarten teachers certainly shows priorities and the importance of a particular area.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U120	No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the heirs, Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U121	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu and Minister! The answers to the inquiry gave us a fairly good overview of the future programme of the European Union, which should focus a considerable amount of money on children and pre-school facilities in kindergarten. However, we could say critically here, and unfortunately I also have to do so, that quite a part of this programme is aimed at childcare facilities, although we have so far been systematically engaged in providing kindergarten places. When we think about parents'expectations, there has actually been no study to conclude that childcare is preferable alongside kindergarten. At present, municipalities prefer childcare only because all kinds of regulations that are supposed to protect the child, but create various, politely said, strange restrictions on the extension of kindergartens, do not extend to childcare in this form. Let me give you a simple example. The cheapest thing is to create more kindergarten places in already working kindergartens and, of course, if the structure of the foundation and the outdoor area allow for more use in larger municipalities, taking into account all other administrative costs. In particular, in those regions where there is a great deal of pressure to create more kindergarten places. However, unfortunately, given the health of the child, we have foreseen that the kindergarten must not work more than two floors, so that only kindergarten groups can be made on the third floor under the name of childcare. In so doing, we take many younger children there than children of pre-school age who already know how to go up the stairs to the third floor and also to come down safely. In childcare, we promise, but in kindergarten, we say that it is extremely dangerous for a child. There are still such strange decisions in these regulations, and they force the municipalities, which in certain cases have to create childcare facilities simply in order to find some relief from the requirements of the regulations. Would it really be wiser to use more money for the future period for childcare, or should we rather discuss whether such regulations are justified? For example, the precept that a group should not be set up above the second floor is somewhat strange, to put it mildly, since in other countries kindergartens are even built on roofs of towers. The question is, why is that? With teachers working week and workload, we can always and endlessly talk about how a teacher does not have to accept a workload exceeding 30 hours and that the Ministry of Education has also sent and advised on this. But looking at the average pay for kindergarten teachers, it has to be said that pre-school teachers in regions are not very strong negotiators, especially considering that they are often in a situation where they are grateful if they have a job at all. As far as holidays are concerned, the content of the work of kindergarten teachers makes it clear that changing the organisation of work on the basis of 56 calendar days' leave would mean quite a lot of restructuring, larger mergers of composite groups, especially during July, as usually the main time of leave in kindergartens in July is. So this could mean more grouping in July and also in August. But from the point of view of kindergarten teachers, it is understandable that if we gave them a teacher's qualification and a name a few years ago, they would expect to have rights corresponding to the teaching profession. To conclude, the most important thing to conclude is that the issue of kindergartens is acutely raised due to different legislative changes. Questions like those I was asked: Should children not rest from kindergarten show that society is following the subject of kindergarten very closely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U122	The members of the Riigikogu have no further wish to speak. Mr. Minister? No, it's not. I will stop dealing with this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U123	Free mike. Viktor Vassilyev, please! Exactly five minutes, no more.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U124	Mr. Chairman of the Riigikogu! I don't need more than five minutes, because what I'm telling you right now is officially the voice of a shouter in the desert. There are few people in the desert, one, two, three, four, five, six, or seven. But it's not about how many audiences there are in the hall. The subject itself is one that few can understand; it concerns the reform of working capacity. Indeed, one of the biggest preconditions of the reform is that, so far, the ability to work has been misjudged. It is said that the ability to work has been assessed on the basis of a diagnosis, that it has been done by the wrong people, that it has to be taken away from them and given to the labour market office, that they are going to do it in a new way. In the Committee on Social Affairs, there have been several talks about the reform of the capacity for work, and I have always wondered whether my ears were cheating on me or whether I myself have become old and stupid without understanding the things I have worked in for 25 years. It finally became clear today that today there was an open Social Affairs Committee meeting, where, at my request, both the people of the Social Insurance Board and occupational doctors were invited. The people of the Social Insurance Institution are those who have assessed both disability and incapacity for work for decades, as I knew, i.e. they have never followed a diagnosis. That's what they assured us. They appreciate precisely what is lacking in man, what functions are lacking. In the case of disability, they assess the person's livelihood, i.e. ability to cope, and the degree of incapacity for work. From now on, it will be determined whether this depends on the disease or is the result of the trauma, or whether any of the reasons are written down, the foreseeable time, etc. But the first thing is still an evaluation of the function. That's always been the case, but for some reason we're being deceived and told that we're being assessed on a diagnostic basis. About the style that if you have heart disease, we'll give you the corresponding percentage of disability. No, it's never been like this! It seems that a great many prerequisites for the reform of working capacity have been taken not from the opinions of specialists, but from the newspapers. It's so unprofessional! Today I received confirmation of this from both occupational doctors and representatives of experts from the Social Insurance Board. Occupational doctors, by the way, said that they had never been spoken to, that they would appreciate it from now on. They were asked what the instrument of assessment could be, but there was no such agreement that they would now determine whether or not they would be able to work. But there is no difference as to whether the person's ability to work is assessed from the bottom to the top, whether they say that he is 50% disabled or that he is 50% able to work. After all, it's exactly the same thing. Only the occupational doctors must not be allowed near it, because occupational doctors have relied their lifetime on decree No 555 which is a legendary thing. It's an order that says which diagnoses you can't work in places. For example, asthma cannot work as a miner in a mine. It's an occupational doctor thing. So he appreciates other things absolutely. And now the reform is attempting to create two evaluation mechanisms: one under the Social Insurance Board and the other under the Occupational Health Service. This is an extensive major reform, with no account being taken of what was, what is and what works. It reminds me of a baby who picks up a toy and he doesn't care if that chick jumps and quacks and moves. No, he's just breaking it up in good faith that suddenly it becomes a great transformer, the more interesting, the bigger, the scarier, the uglier, the prouder. After that, we'll see if it'll help, whether it'll scare someone or just fill our free time. But maybe he'll invite the other kids to play, you'll have more fun together. Unfortunately, the people behind this reform are people who have needs, disabilities, diseases, mentality and must be respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U125	Thank you. Andrus Ansip, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U126	Mr President! Good Riigikogu! The previous speaker mentioned that it does not matter whether incapacity for work or ability to work is assessed. I think there is a very big difference between assessing what does not exist or what still exists and what can be developed further. For some time now, people's incapacity for work has been determined in European countries, and the loss of this ability has led them to pay some compensation. In more advanced countries, over the past decades, more active communication with people who have lost their capacity to work, i.e. trying to determine their working capacity. It also seeks to answer the question of what to do in order to further increase this capacity. I've talked to a lot of people who can't work because of disability, like those people who have a full capacity for work. I've also spoken to people with enough mental disabilities. I've been talking to people with very serious diagnoses. And they all say they want to be useful. They are burdened and exhausted because they are always a burden to others, dependants, and they want to give themselves something. Also people with a diagnosis of schizophrenia at the Tartu Mental Health Care Centre know that this diagnosis does not mean that a person is "out" all the time, most of the time he or she is perfectly normal and wants to be useful. They want to do something, something they can do. I think it is general, it is human that people want to be contributors to society, not just animals at the expense of society. In a solidarity society, helping those in need is perfectly natural. I believe that it is the expression of humanity to help people with disabilities who have partially lost their job capacity to work as others do, albeit at a lower load. By doing so, you can make them feel good. Good friends! That's not the only reason I came here today. As we know, tomorrow I will be going to Brussels. I want to thank you all for the opportunity to work with you here in the Riigikogu! I am extremely grateful for the fact that, apart from having had the opportunity to look at the Riigikogu from this speaker's office or from the government's box for nine years, I also gained experience in working as a member of the Riigikogu. This two and a half months greatly broadened my understanding of the work of the Riigikogu. Estonia's democracy is not falling apart under our eyes; Estonian parliamentarianism is strong. We are even the tenth highest in the 28 countries of the European Union in terms of Parliament's credibility, and for this I would like to thank all current and previous Members. However, I share the concern of Priit Pikamäe, the head of the Supreme Court, that the centre of power is shifting from parliament, from legislative power to executive power. I have a request that the Riigikogu strengthen Parliamentaryism in the future so that, as Priit Pikamäe said, the balance mechanism of the authorities of Pikkmäe is not called into question. Thank you. Good luck to the Riigikogu and good luck to Estonia!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U127	Thank you, Andrus Ansip! Maimu Berg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U128	Mr. President! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Poets have spoken to rocks in the old days, so why not talk about brosal to empty benches? But I'd start with the famous sentence of Cato's Elder, an old Roman senator: 'Ceterum censeo Carthakinem esse delendam. " I think Carthage must be destroyed. ' I quote this sentence because if God wants me to, I will try to come to the topic of Tallinn with the same consistency that Catole has. In the two and a half months that I have been here, I have not heard anything about this subject from the members of the Riigikogu. I'm a native, I'm born and raised here. I can also betray my high age, I have watched Tallinn's life for over half a century. I have seen all kinds of developments here, and I also see that today Tallinn needs to change to new developments, but above all the attention of the state. Tallinn is left alone or has been given up on Tallinn. The fact that Tallinn is the capital is as obvious as breathing. We know that Tallinn is the capital, the stronghold of power, if you wish, the stronghold of Kalevite, as the song verse says. And it seems self-evident that in Tallinn, as in any city, but not in the capital city. It seems very comfortable and comfortable for everyone just let it stay as it was, let it stay as it is. But Tallinn has long lived its own independent life, and it has nothing to do with being a capital. The life and affairs of the city of Tallinn are reflected in Tallinn's media publications Tallinn has its own police, Tallinn has its own Orthodox Church, Tallinn has its own shop and maybe the day will come when Tallinn has its own money. When we look around the city of Tallinn, it is not the blue-black-white flag that flies proudly on our main square, above the pillar of freedom and victory, but the blue-white-striped flag of Tallinn, also a very beautiful one. I have read opinions where younger people say that just as the President does not need the capital of the Estonian state. The Estonian state is small, we can move from one point to another here, there is a capital everywhere, and we can also design an e-City between different cities. But I don't think so. I think that the country must have a capital, and it must be that every person who lives here feels and senses that he lives in the capital of his country, and every person who comes here to visit feels and senses that he has arrived in the capital of one country. What can help to ensure this? For years, the need for capital law has been debated and what it should be. From time to time, this topic fades and then comes up again. I have followed this issue afterwards. Recently, more hopeful thoughts have come about in this regard, perhaps because of a change in our government. I quote the opinion of Andres Herkel and Jüri Saare, published in Postimees on 12 March: 'The new Estonian government must immediately start active in Tallinn. The silent agreement that allows Savisaar to be delivered in Tallinn at its own discretion no longer satisfies the Estonian population. ' Tunne Kelam finds in Postimees on 7 May that the Riigikogu should initiate a capital law as a matter of urgency, which must clearly define the functioning and position of the capital in the country. I quote him: 'The regulations suitable for small people are not enough to organise the lives of one third of Estonians' homes. [---] The state can't just be an outsider and hope that things might get better in the capital. ' That is what I agree with. Tallinn is not a small town, it is not the capital of a small municipality or the main village. Tallinn is a large city within the meaning of Estonia, a capital within the meaning of the Republic, and here life should not be organized according to rules that are not suitable for rural municipalities, just as we do not organise the life of rural municipalities according to the rules that are suitable for Tallinn. So I intend to continue to start and finish my speeches in the Riigikogu with the consistency of this Cato Elder and still refer to the changes that I think are necessary in Tallinn. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U129	Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U130	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On 4 April this year, Vilja Kohler's article "Specialists Going From the City Health Clinic" was published in Tartu Postimees. This writing was extremely worrying to many patients at the Tartu City Police Clinic, who considered the existing system to have worked well. In fact, as a result of the process of selecting partners for specialist medical care, eight out of ten specialist medical services were no longer selected at the Tartu City Police Clinic. The people who have used the service have been very satisfied with the services provided at the Tartu health centre. When treating a family doctor, patients received a specialist's advice and treatment relatively quickly. There was teamwork, which was important in providing better care and was particularly suitable for patients. Since the city clinic was located in the city centre, it was convenient to access it and it was good for the citizen to go there. The service was also well available to those who came from the country. Patients sense injustice and are rightly concerned about the good availability of future family doctors and specialised medical services. They sent a letter of concern to the Prime Minister, the Minister of Health and Labour with their signature in 2017 as well as the Director of the Tartu Department of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund. The answers expected from the authorities for over a month were those that didn't make any sense. Rather, they tried to explain why this happened, why the new criteria no longer allow specialised medical care to be provided. Commenting publicly on the subject in the paper, the Minister of Health and Labour also expressed a misunderstanding as to why the Tartu Linna Polikliinik lost eight out of ten specialist doctors. The Minister also sees that this redistribution of specialised doctors is unreasonable and has promised to ask for clarification and clarification of the selection criteria at a meeting of the Health Insurance Fund Board. More than 2,000 people have a big problem. While the issue they raise is justified by a change in one criterion, the second one, but how did criteria arise that satisfy the health insurance fund but do not satisfy the person receiving the service? There are already rumors that the building where the specialist medical service was provided is intended to build a hotel and make the building an object of real estate. Naturally, the property of Tartu city centre and the building located there are very sweet real estate objects. There are a lot of questions. Dear ministers, representatives of the Health Insurance Fund and colleagues. When dealing with such cases, it is important to look to the needy and take his opinion into account. Reading points from the Excel table alone and leaving people aside, there is simply a crowd crossing and departure. My opinion is clear that the problem raised by the 2017 person needs to be reviewed and the best solution to the availability of specialist medical care in the city of Tartu. I call on those involved in this decision-making process to engage in dialogue with people, with the people and to find a quick solution to the problem. Can't wait for people who need help today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U131	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U132	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Tomorrow, the Riigikogu will start discussing the work capacity reform, namely its first, so-called core part, or the draft Employment Capacity Support Act. There have been a lot of problems in relation to this draft, including those that are actually not the subject of the draft legislation to be discussed tomorrow, but more broadly the subject of the reform of the capacity for work. I myself believe in the same target group, whose well-being the work capacity reform is beginning to increase in this society, that this reform is very much needed by society. From now on, a person's positive, just working ability will be assessed in principle. It will begin to appreciate the extent to which a person can benefit both himself and others, to the benefit of society. I therefore call on all of you, ladies and gentlemen, to have a good constructive discussion tomorrow and to focus on the procedure of this core draft law. It is very important that we do not disperse the matter so that we do not go against it by setting some fictional or extraneous issues. Tomorrow, the Committee on Social Affairs will also begin to discuss the Social Welfare Act and it will already cover the 'lateral' aspects of the labour capacity reform, which are also important for the inclusion of people with special needs in the labour market. So once again, I call on you to discuss this bill constructively tomorrow. Finally, a few words on another subject. Tomorrow, indeed, three of our colleagues will go to Brussels: Andrus Ansip, Kaja Kallas and Yana Toom. I would like to welcome the fact that I have been able to work with all three of them on I wish them all the best of luck in the business of Estonia in Brussels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U133	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U134	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand we have a free microphone for the last time in the first half of this year. And I understand that today is the last chance to thank the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, who has worked with us all these days this year. On behalf of the Centre Party Group, I would like to thank you sincerely for your cooperation. This job doesn't look like much, say, from this remote control or somewhere else, but you've really done a lot of work with us. What are these draft laws that have been adopted here and are still being adopted, which are appreciated by our constituents. But once again, thank you very much for your work. The vacation's ahead. Happy summer days! In autumn, we'll come back together and work together.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-16_U135	No more calls, no more free mike. I'll see you tomorrow morning. Thank you. Closure of the sitting at 5.55 p.m.
