ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U1	Hi! Happy men's day! Question time begins. We're gonna do a presence check. 40 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present, 61 missing. Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, Andres Anvelt, Minister of Justice, and Urmas Kruuse, Minister of Health and Labour will participate in the Question Hour. Last day, six members of the Riigikogu expressed their wish to ask questions. I will give you two additional questions from the floor for each issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U2	The first questioner is Marko Mihkelson, and the question is for Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. Please, Marko Mihkelson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U3	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister! From the perspective of Estonia's future, it is undoubtedly extremely important to contribute every day to strengthening our security and also economic environment. It also concerns international cooperation and action to ensure that all agreements that we conclude with our good partners are very clearly based on those interests that will consolidate and strengthen our security in the future and create additional wealth for our country. A lot of questions have been raised in recent days by the so-called gas agreements that you signed on Monday. As with all international agreements, this mandate, which a member of the government receives, is extremely important here. What specific government decision do you grant when you conclude these agreements?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U4	Thank you. Indeed, there have been negotiations for three years, and now for the first time we have a tangible solution to how to strengthen Estonia's gas security. I am pleased that we have reached this agreement. This is not technically a contract, much less an external agreement. This is a communiqué or, let's say, a protocol of common intentions, it can be called an agreement. This agreement is based on the mandate already requested by the previous Minister for Economic Affairs from the European Commission. For the first time, if I remember correctly, it was on 1 March 2013. Then the main directions were set. At the government meeting, we last agreed exactly on the positions that we presented to Finland two weeks ago. I am pleased to say that, just as the Estonian Government confirmed these positions two weeks ago on the proposal of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, we reached this agreement literally. So the first mandate comes from the Riigikogu. The Riigikogu Committee on European Union Affairs gave this first foundation and then the Minister of Economic Affairs was Juhan Parts.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U5	Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U6	Thank you. As we know, this is a very important long-term agreement that affects both the security of supply of our gas supply and whether or not investment in Estonia comes directly. Estonia has made it very clear throughout this process that this investment is just a regional LNG terminal that should come to such a place that our consumers would also be guaranteed a better price, but at the same time this investment would be more efficient. At the end of the summer, the representatives of the European Commission were clearly of the opinion that this project, prepared in Estonia, has a clear head start compared to the project of Finnish colleagues. When you conclude this agreement, what analysis do you consider that the regional terminal to be built in Finland is better than the terminal to be built in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U7	Thank you. Reaching an agreement is much more preferable from the point of view of Estonia than a situation where we do not have an agreement. The European Commission has made the co-financing of both the connections and the regional terminal conditional on Estonia and Finland reaching an agreement. As long as we did not have an agreement, we had no confidence that we could take a real step forward in this area, so it was extremely important to reach an agreement. This agreement, or the steps we take, can be assessed from two points of view. In my opinion, security must be a priority in the case of gas supply. Of course, I do not deny the economic aspect. But if we have to choose between two solutions, one of which is as profitable as possible for Estonian companies, and the other guarantees us that all those people whose homes are heated by gas are heated, whatever happens, then the primary interest of the Estonian state is precisely to ensure security, so that the rooms are warm in every situation. Therefore, for quite a long time, this was also the first preference of the previous government to establish connections between Finland and Estonia, as well as to establish them between Lithuania and Poland. This decision is based not only on the analysis of our own country, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and Elering, for example, but also on an impartial study, which clearly confirms that the impact of the Community on Estonia's energy security is the most important.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U8	The second point, Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! As you know, some Estonian energy experts have criticised this agreement precisely from the point of view you have emphasised. It is claimed that the proposed gas pipeline between the two Gazprom systems does not necessarily increase security. For example, Professor Arvi Hamburg of the Chair of Energy Systems at Tallinn University of Technology has also said that this pipe would rather reduce our energy security and, at the same time, increase the price of possible network services for the gas consumer, because the maintenance costs of both Balticconnector and SOS terminal will be added to the network service fee. Thus, it is, in essence, only costly for the Estonian state, not useful.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U10	Thank you. Not some experts, but just the Arvi Hamburg you mentioned has really criticised it, apart from yourself, of course. I think that many members of the Riigikogu still remember what Arvi Hamburg's views were when the natural gas law was discussed. At that time he spoke about Eesti Gaas, partly owned by Gazprom. He spoke a story that in no way overlapd with the interests of Estonia's security. I do not want to suspect him personally or even less blame him, but if we look rationally, we will see that his story does not actually coincide with the interests of Estonian security. The fact that the construction of the gas pipeline would somehow be too much for the Estonian consumer is not true. Currently, the gas core network has a tariff of EUR 50 million and slightly more. The construction of a gas pipeline means that the amount of the tariff to be considered will increase to about one-and-a-half times, with an impact on the gas bill of 1.5%. This effect exists, but if on one side there is 1.5% of the price of gas and on the other side there is confidence that Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania cannot be cut off from the gas network and we can get gas from Finland if necessary, then I say that confidence is worth more. All the more so, in the case of the construction of a terminal, we will not talk about the additional percentages, but then the gas tariff will be several times higher.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U11	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U12	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! Energy security is undoubtedly an issue where every country in the European Union has its own interests. Of course, these are the interests of the countries. However, in order to move forward at all, these countries must make some compromises between themselves. It is alleged that the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications of the previous government was quite active in this matter. Did the negotiations in Finland reveal any reasons why it did not reach an agreement and would this status quo, that there is no terminal or pipe, be better for the security of the Estonian state? That was the situation before the end of the day.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U13	Thank you. I do not want to criticise the previous Minister for Economic Affairs on these issues. I understand, of course, his frustration not only as regards the construction of a gas pipeline, but also, for example, with regard to the purchase of the gas core network to the state, as well as the resolution of the ferry issue and the conclusion of the Rail Baltic agreement with the Latvians and Lithuanians, where the situation at some point seemed equally hopeless. In these matters, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has taken long steps forward in the last eight months. Personally, as a former minister, I would not be jealous of this either, but rather feel that it is good that a number of important things have moved forward. As Prime Minister, I thank and congratulate the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, headed by Urve Palo, not only for this gas agreement, but also for a number of other things. The Rail Baltic agreement is also international and, in the meantime, it seemed that it would not come at all, but here, too, a few months ago, they made a breakthrough. My role in this agreement, I'd say, is highly overrated. Yes, of course, it is important that the Prime Ministers pressured both sides in a good way so that the negotiations would end effectively and we would not be in a stalemate again, which would be very bad for Estonia, because that would mean that we would not have an alternative to Russian gas. Now this alternative arises. So, of course, the Prime Ministers had a role to play, but the main work was still done by the officials in both countries, as well as by the companies that participated in the negotiations. The recognition that an agreement has been reached naturally belongs to them too.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U14	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U15	Thank you. Dear Taavi in the garment! Marko Mihkelson, the author of the question, has named this question 'The future of Estonia'. Since Sunday, we have all been able to watch a paid political announcement, where you are walking, among other things, at Ämari airport and talking about the future of Estonia. This has been followed by a public confusion about how you got there. In talks between them, the Defence Forces say that you invited yourself to visit as Prime Minister and did not warn them that this is a filming of political advertising. The Prime Minister's office has not refuted this argument either. Can you now say with whom you have made such an agreement and is it appropriate to take advantage of such a position for political advertising?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U16	Thank you. I personally did not participate in the conclusion of this agreement. Even less so, I invited myself to visit as Prime Minister somewhere, and then I surprised somebody. Of course, the Defence Forces were aware that the Reform Party wanted to use the Ämari Airport for filming the election clip within a few hours at a certain time. All necessary consents were given. This agreement, which has already been criticised as being as illegal as possible, was, of course, legal. I personally did not participate in the conclusion of this agreement, as I said. But as Prime Minister, I go to Ämari Airport very often and I also recommend it to all members of the Riigikogu. The fact that Ämari Airport has become one of the important symbols of ensuring Estonia's security is a big deal. By the way, there's probably a connection to the fact that the chief of Ämar's air base became an officer of the year. This is part of the Estonian Defence Forces, which has developed very quickly and on which our allies say that they feel much better there than many other countries on such bases. I am proud of the Estonian Defence Forces. I'm proud of the Ämari. I believe that the political debate of political parties must certainly address the issue of security. If you look closely at this clip, you will understand that my message there is this: we must make an effort to be even better protected. This is what I intend to continue to stand for, both as Prime Minister and as Chairman of a political party.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U17	The number of questions allowed is full. I will conclude on this issue. [[Interjection.]] Honourable MP Juhan Parts, when Question Time began, I said that two additional questions could be asked. You have to be better with your fingers or you can count to two.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U18	The next questioner is Kadri Simson and the question is the Minister of Health and Labour, Urmas Kruus. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U19	Thank you. Unfortunately, Juhan Parts has now left the hall; he could have asked Urmas Kruus for an additional question. But my question concerns the following matter. Last January, the health partners signed a cooperation agreement on goodwill. Its aim was to put in place policies and concrete actions to ensure the sustainability of the health care system. The Auditor General was here last Wednesday. In the recent report of the National Audit Office, we can read that the Ministry of Social Affairs is unable to comply with the goodwill agreement with health workers. Yesterday, you signed a similar goodwill agreement to ensure the social protection of people with disabilities or health impairment. What should give us reason to believe that the agreement concluded by the Ministry of Social Affairs will comply with this?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U20	Thank you, Reverend Asker! I think you interpreted the words of the Auditor General a little one-sided. I can also explain this on the basis of so-called round table agreements. The Health Round Table Agreement was one of the reasons why we could enter into a similar agreement in social welfare. It was only this autumn that the Ministry of Social Affairs presented to the government office 'Estonian Health Developments until 2020', which addresses the common part agreed between the parties at these round tables as developments. One of the most important changes has taken place in primary health care. When we look at the audit of the Auditor General, we must admit that he has referred to this change as a very positive trend. The role of primary care, family health centres, family doctors and their new crew members in health care is a clear upward trend. It's very important. The second part of the audit relates to the availability of services. In order to get the services even better, a very large-scale eHealth project has been launched, with a number of important changes foreseen, be they related to e-mails, e-consultation or launch of digital registrations. For this reason, I think that we clearly agree with the Auditor General on these directions and that we want to move forward with this round table agreement, because there is still a lot of important things to discuss and the discussions have reached a very interesting stage.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U21	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U22	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I did not quote the National Audit Office in a biased way. Point 155 of the agreement states: 'The agreement sets out a number of activities (with deadlines) which should make the health care system more efficient and improve the situation of the parties. However, only a few points have been fulfilled so far from the agreement... " Very many organisations of the disabled are reluctant to sign a goodwill agreement. They did not do so yesterday, as the work capacity reform agenda as it stands does not improve the chances of these people entering the labour market. What is the value of the goodwill agreement, and to whom is it intended if even the representatives of the disabled are not prepared to sign it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U23	Thank you, Reverend Asker! In the Riigikogu and in Estonia at all, targets are set, and from time to time we must admit that not always the agreements that have been hoped for at the beginning will be reached by the deadline. But through these agreements, we have shown very clearly the directions and actions that we have been able to carry out in the light of either the economic situation or the common part. If we are talking about this goodwill agreement, which is partly linked to the work capacity reform, most of all to the part that simply does not fit into the two draft laws, the two drafts cannot solve all the problems of social welfare in Estonia as a whole, then its value is related to the fact that as a collective part we recognise the objectives that we should pursue in order to improve the living environment of people with reduced working capacity, people with disabilities and their ability to cope with them in the Republic of Estonia. I am convinced that we will not be helped by confrontation, but if we have good will and we want to do something together. Yesterday the representatives of the various institutions were at the table, and there were also representatives of disabled people's organisations. I cannot agree in any way that their representative organisations are excluded from this agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U24	Kadri Simson, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U25	Thank you. The press release of the Ministry of Social Affairs did not mention the organisations that signed the agreement, but I asked for an extra list and saw that most of the signatories were not directly related to disabled people. But last week, you admitted that postponing the work capacity reform will not deprive Estonia of euro money. In this regard, Postimees published an article entitled 'Minister Kruuse's vass with money numbers'. It turned out that we would miss the money if we didn't do the work capacity reform. By 2018, Estonia has promised that 31420 people with special needs will receive help from the unemployment fund in finding a job. This means that the person has been consulted, trained or otherwise assisted. That doesn't mean he's got a job. But what happens to the rest of the disabled when there is a commitment that only 31000 people will be offered services in the next three years?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U26	Thank you, Reverend Asker! What you have referred to means, in my opinion, that I really have said with clear knowledge that if we do not implement the labour capacity reform, we will certainly have no basis for using European Union money in the way we have promised the European Commission. The negotiations were very long. Estonian officials worked very hard to bring this money to Estonia. Now we have it. Another important change in the use of European Union money is that it is very important for the European Commission that Member States use intermediate indicators to show whether they are moving in the direction that has been considered important. As a result, not all money will be issued, but 94% of these funds will first be released, and if the interim indicators are not met, there may be a risk that the remaining amount will no longer be distributed. Specifically, for these two draft laws, this could mean almost EUR 14 million, but if we look at the work programme more broadly or at the measures that are related to employment, it will certainly be higher. That is why we must be very active in ensuring that these people receive the services and that we also meet the milestones. This reform is not designed simply to meet the indicators, but to change the current situation, with which no one is satisfied, and clearly for the better.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U27	Margus Tsahkna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U28	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. The work capacity reform has created very strong opposition among people with disabilities and those with special needs. Everything you have said in public that the work capacity reform has been done precisely for them has, for some reason, further deepened this opposition. Mr Simson has already mentioned that a cooperation agreement on goodwill was signed yesterday. According to my data, too, a very large number of people with disabilities did not exactly sign up to it. It is not even a question of whether or not they signed, but of the fact that this confrontation will therefore continue. How do you justify doing a good thing according to what you say, but the gap between government policy and people with disabilities is so great?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U29	Thank you, Reverend Asker! As a minister, it has not been possible for me during my term of office to question the objectives of this reform, despite the fact that some people in this Chamber have also changed their positions and have taken opposing positions as before. In the light of the discussions that have taken place over these five to six months, my conviction that reform is necessary has grown. This reform is needed, it is essential. This has actually been acknowledged by the same organisations of the disabled. The signature of the goodwill cooperation agreement is still open for several days, so the Ministry had agreed, based on the fact that not everyone was able to show up specifically yesterday at 3:00 p.m. But the fact that no disability organisation has signed this agreement is certainly not correct. It is entirely to be expected that this reform will create a great deal of emotion in society. We have also seen that it has been accompanied by certain fears. We are talking about, even if people are intimidated by the fact that they may lose their disability benefit, despite our claim that the current disability pension will become a disability benefit based on whether it is partial or total incapacity for work. All people have acknowledged that the current situation needs to be changed and that we need to move forward. Any measure envisaged will improve the situation. Take, for example, the availability of rehabilitation or aids. The order of two years is not reasonable. Now there has been a change that the order can last at most one year.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U30	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! In life, reforms irritate someone and make one, two, and three afraid. What does your gut say that causes such opposition from people with disabilities? Is it because this reform is not so good or mature, or because people with disabilities are afraid of change? For them, each change is many times more difficult than a normal person. Is this reform not mature or is the reaction of disabled people simply because they are afraid and have not been well informed?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U32	Thank you, Reverend Asker! There was actually an answer to some of your questions. It is certain that spectacular changes in society will lead to certain fears and a possible wave of protest. If we look at the target group.. we are talking about people with reduced working capacity, which are nearly 100,000 and half of whom are people with disabilities, then people with disabilities have, in my opinion, been positive. They have been very active actors and speakers because they have sensed that their voice has been allowed to sound in society and that it sounds farther and harder than maybe in the last ten years. I fully understand that emotional conflicts can also arise. Of course, we can say that the approaching elections can also fuel certain emotions. But above all, I see it as very important that within the same five or six months, when there has been a very active debate in society, the attitude has already begun to change. We have heard that there is now a queue behind the doors of the Astangu Rehabilitation Centre, because employers want to receive training and training on how to deal better with people with reduced working capacity to provide them with work later. This, too, is a very important sign of the change that we have been able to bring about in a short time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U33	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U34	The next questioner is Jüri Morozov. The question is for Minister of Justice Andres Anvelt. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U35	Thank you. Dear Minister, My question is about the review of criminal proceedings. I know that you are quite critical of the existing procedure. You have said that our procedure is a crooked house with a Soviet foundation, German walls and the roof of an American competing trial. What are the Ministry's further plans in the area of criminal proceedings? As a minister, how do you imagine the future of criminal proceedings, and what problems do you see there?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U36	Thank you, good questioner! There were several parts of your question, but I will start from the beginning. First of all, the current criminal procedure applies to us since 2004. This was a major step forward from the criminal proceedings so far, indeed during the occupation, which were based on the inquisition method. In 2004, we lost very much from the old system, but we kept a number of fundamental principles the same, really bringing in elements of German law and an American competing element in the trial. Given the resources we have for the procedure, criminal proceedings certainly need to be reviewed from the point of view of making it quicker, reducing duplication and modernising it. What does that mean? Faster, as well as modernisation, requires the introduction of completely new methods of formalising evidence. For example, better digital proofs, statutory fixation, the introduction of a digital file, from the police or the tax and customs officer to the court. There is certainly a need to review the investigative element both in the pre-trial investigation and in a court where, unfortunately, there is often duplication at the moment, in other words, the same things that are done in the pre-trial investigation will be re-established in a court of law. All of this often disturbs citizens precisely because, whatever their role, they must waste a great deal of their time in order to comply with the bureaucratic requirements of legal proceedings.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U37	Jüri Morozov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U38	Thank you. Dear Minister, At the beginning of the last century, Anton Hansen also wrote about the revision of Tammsaare. He said: " Reviding is as often needed as bread, water, and air. After all, the subject specifically concerns people. You've said there's a complete vacuum in this system and there's air to be provided. What measures are envisaged as a result of this review to bring the system into the air?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U39	Thank you. Let's say that the complex of measures is large. The review of criminal proceedings is only one part of it and will be included in the Ministry's action plan for next year. Certainly, the review of criminal proceedings cannot be a very fast process, as criminal proceedings are one of the most damaging forms of procedure for citizens' fundamental rights and freedoms. Therefore, any change should be considered with all experts on the basis of both theory and practice. But internal security, let's say it's the procedural side that requires a lot of air in the future. Currently, the Ministry of Justice has been subject to judicial reform for several years. When dealing with judges in courthouses, it is understood that judicial proceedings are becoming faster, for example, in administrative or civil proceedings. In criminal proceedings, the fact that proceedings come from the prosecutor's office, especially complicated procedures, is often an aggravating factor. There are a number of things to be considered here. Firstly, to ensure that the number of practitioners is sufficient and, secondly, to prevent them from doing empty work. Empty work is not about solving crimes, it is about repeating and repeating what has already been done once when the evidence is fixed. I also attach great importance to keeping these professionals in work and continuing training. All of this requires resources both in the prosecutor's office, where we begin preparations for structural changes, and certainly also in the Police and Border Guard Board, which is under the administration of the Ministry of Internal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U40	Jüri Morozov, the second point, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U41	Thank you. Dear Minister, In answering the first question, you spoke about the need to digitise the procedure. Can you tell us how much the Estonian state's money will be spent on digitisation and how much it could actually affect the speed of the process, the reduction in labour needs, etc.?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U42	Thank you. How much money will be spent on the whole process of proceedings, from the judge to the Police and Border Guard Board, the Tax and Customs Board, or other authorities with procedural rights, to the court to the court, this is all the same issue of analysis. We are still preparing the so-called digital file project at the trial stage. From this point of view, we will assess how much money is needed to expand this project, so that it all reaches the prosecutor's office and the police (let's be summarised as one or the other, no matter where the same function is performed). That's what the same review of criminal proceedings shows. The introduction of the digital file has several objectives. One objective is to facilitate the work of the parties to proceedings so that it is not necessary to physically transfer documents by bone between different stages of the proceedings and all the evidence and other material necessary for the proceedings are available in one place to all parties to the proceedings who, at some point, have the right of access to one or the other. The second objective is certainly that citizens who are involved in criminal proceedings can easily know, for example, at what stage one or the other procedure is. In this way we can reduce the current workload. For example, in order to send notifications to all victims that the procedure has been closed for one reason or another, prosecutors will need 30,000 hours a year. So there's something to look at and make more modern.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U43	Marko Pomerants, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U44	In my opinion, Question Time is one of the most grateful forms of work where two social democrats can talk to each other, because the Riigikogu rules of procedure do not provide for any other possibility. We have a subject in criminal proceedings right now. I also sincerely believe that there was nothing criminal about Taavi's garment going to Ämari airport. But since this is a very tight schedule for the Prime Minister, while he's away, the prime minister candidates for all parties in the Stenbock House could do their clips to make sure everyone has something. Now for that audit. As a minister, you have brought to the Riigikogu a piece of what concerns arrests and searches and the safeguarding of the fundamental rights of the people involved. It also became clear to the Riigikogu that it cost at least one million euros. What should an honest taxpayer think of this cost, and should he be satisfied with it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U45	Thank you. First of all, I am pleased that not only members of the Socialist Group are interested in this issue. A good colleague, I dare to call him that because we have been colleagues in the Riigikogu, Marko Pomerants has been able to ask me these questions in the Committee on Legal Affairs, but Parliament's Question Time is another form of work for this. This part, which concerns one part of the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms, really costs nearly EUR 1 million, is calculated by more precise calculations at EUR 900000. My understanding is that if we are spending on the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms, we must look at all criminal proceedings to see where savings can be made. It is therefore foreseen that this draft amendment, which is on your tables, will enter into force by 2016. It should not be forgotten that the first steps have already been taken in this draft to make savings. There are also provisions relating to the simplification of the proceedings. If I remember correctly, they can save nearly 14,000 processing hours. But first of all, the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms cannot be cheap; second, there must be places to be found in the same procedure where this money can better achieve its objectives, i.e. it is important to avoid duplication. We have to get to the point where if the judge, prosecutor or judge has done something once, he shouldn't have to do it again.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U46	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U47	Thank you. Dear Minister, Tammsare was quoted once in this hall. In order for my question to be relevant and to deal with the review of criminal proceedings, I will ask you this. Isn't it criminal that classics are posthumously made Social Democrats and their pictures are taped to Tallinn trash cans? Is this a social democratic view of the world, and do you think such visual advertising is in accordance with good practice?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U48	Thank you for a very good question. As an expert in criminal proceedings and as a fully trained and educated man, I can say that there is nothing criminal here, a good questioner. It's just because there's something criminal about reminding the people of our town of our classics. Yesterday I myself took part in reading the fifth volume of Tammsaare's works. Moreover, on my Facebook page you can find a section of Anton Hansen Tammsaare's 'Truth and Right', which describes Tammsaare's work as essentially condemns it, but it does so through a description of domestic violence at the Oru farm, where a man takes the beating of a woman as a completely normal activity, although it is actually criminal. So I only support it when classics recall the history of Estonia, and often the details of past life are very similar to what we now see around us. So I suggest everyone, after watching these billboards, go home and untie even the same good old collected works in the black volume 'Truth and Justice' and browse if there is no more time, but it's better to read it. This will certainly help to improve both mental and physical health.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U49	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U50	The next questioner is Peter Laurson. The question is the Minister of Health and Labour, Urmas Kruus. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U51	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister for Health and Labour, At meetings with the people of the city of Tartu, I have been asked several times what you have achieved as a former Head of Government as Minister of Health and Labour. In order to be clear, please state the main achievements of your work so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U52	Thank you. Despite the briefness of my term of office, given the few months I have been able to hold office, I think that the current government has also taken quite a number of important steps in my area of work. I mentioned before 'Estonian Health Developments until 2020'. This document envisages a very fundamental change which must ensure, in the long term, that our people's health improves in every aspect. This means that if we are now used to being served by a family doctor with only a sister on his team and who will direct us to a specialist, then in the future there will be a midwife, a physical therapist and a nurse on the family doctor's team. All of this is based on this principle, so that we can do more preventive work and detect diseases at an early stage so that they can be treated quickly, and we can influence people's health behaviour in a positive direction. It is particularly important to change people's behaviour in those areas which the WHO has also pointed out and on which it has reproached us: men's health, smoking, alcohol policy. Secondly, it is important that we are working very intensively on the development of eHealth. If we look at what gives patients the opportunity to receive better treatment and doctors the opportunity to do their job better, we believe that e-registration and e-mails are extremely important. When we talk about labour capacity reform, or the biggest reform, it has taken the most time to deal with it. These negotiations, meetings and discussions that have taken place in Riigikogu committees, but also outside this house, touring in Estonia, when I have met ordinary Estonian people who have their own simple concerns, have been extremely important to me. On the same subject, I have also spoken in the House of Disabled People of Tartu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U53	Time's up, Minister! Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U54	Thank you. Dear Minister for Health and Labour, This is exactly what I explained to the townspeople, but the townspeople were not satisfied. They said that these questions were dealt with earlier in the ministry before you became your minister. Please bring out a few specific things that you have done in the office of the Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U55	If I were powerman, I could say that all of these are specifically what I did. But it is clear that preventive work and primary care have been one of my very important priorities. Let's look at the green book. What's in there shouldn't just be on paper. We actually have an incredibly good social agreement in alcohol policy. The government's action plan includes the taxation of vices and, depending on this, the premature rise in excise duty. This has been part of the initiative of the Minister for Health and Labour as well as of the Government as a whole, and it is very important for public health. Another part of my work relates to the way the sickness fund and its council work. In any case, we want to focus more resources on the preventive side, but we also want to improve access to health care. So there are certainly more points that could be regarded as an achievement by one minister or another. But I dare say from this remote unit that one person will not do everything we are able to do in cooperation. That is what I think is important. But I certainly have a role to play in prioritising these things.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U56	Peter Laurson, the second question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U57	Thank you. I have a very specific question for you from the townspeople. How far is the development of the dental allowance mechanism? This has been promised for a long time, and it is your area of expertise. Tell me how far it's gonna go.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U58	Thank you, Reverend Asker! When we look at statistics, we have to admit that oral hygiene as part of public health is extremely important. This summer, the issue was very acutely raised in the Health Insurance Board and two very important conclusions were hatched. First, although children are provided with free dental care, nearly 30% of children still do not receive this treatment. That is why we are stepping up the measures and we have also taken steps to ensure that all children reach the dentist and receive free dental care. Another important conclusion relates to pensioners, the elderly. In my opinion, the current system, which provides that once every three years only the cost of prostheses will be reimbursed, does not justify itself and must change in the future. I have also said this to society, and these changes will be discussed in the Health Insurance Board. The third conclusion concerns human health behaviour and access to medical care in general. This also means that the Health Insurance Fund's budget for the next year will provide additional resources for family doctors to carry out more research, provide more accurate diagnosis and help to change people's health behaviour and attitudes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U59	Aivar Chef.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U60	Good manager! Good minister! In response to Peter Laurson, which has been your main topic, you said that one of the most important things has been the taxation of vices. On May 2, next year, the excise duty on specially labelled fuel will rise by 40%, affecting thousands of households and people living there. Is this also the taxation of the vices you have dealt with? In your opinion as Minister of Labour, this may be a good thing, because many companies that are going to replace boilers can get a job. But there's another side to it. Have solutions been found to support those people who have to invest heavily?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U61	Thank you, Reverend Asker! If we are talking specifically about this type of heating, then you must also acknowledge as a person who has experience in your municipality, and since you were a county elder, you know that the replacement of such boilers began in local governments years ago. I myself have been involved in this process and have recognised that the municipalities that took this step years ago are now in a much better situation than those who remained in the use of fuel oil. The Government, through the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, is currently planning measures to support the replacement of these boilers. If we look at energy security and how we can be more sustainable, then I think that the replacement is absolutely feasible. As Minister of Health and Labour, I am sure to welcome the development of the economy in Estonia as a whole. The less unemployment there is, the better the situation in Estonia as a whole. But it certainly cannot be my goal, as a minister, to simply offer such measures to businesses, but it is a very clearly cheaper and more sustainable form of heating in the long term. Investment versus cost means savings in this perspective.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U62	Priit Onions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U63	Thank you. Dear Minister, You referred to prosthetic prosthetics of older people once in your previous response. I just want to remind you that the previous Foreign Minister, Paet, also began to speak on this subject and was sent away to Brussels. So you have to think about what will happen to you if you move on to this subject. But within the next half-hour, the draft law on disability benefit is likely to be formalised as a law, whether it is your winning job or how to deal with it. When do you think this great hall will return to these draft laws? Both the Ministry and probably politicians have realised that, despite these important and necessary changes, this system is still beyond the power of the taxpayer. When do you expect us to come back to these drafts?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U64	Thank you, Reverend Asker! I dare reassure you that I will not go to Brussels, nor will I be sent there. However, when it comes to the reform of the capacity to work and the adoption of this law in this honourable Chamber, it is certainly in the calculation of the financial plan that this reform is also sustainable after the end of the European Union's money. This principle has been extremely important in launching this reform. Without it, it would not be possible to launch this reform, otherwise the situation would be quite perilous. We want to provide certain services to people through the European Union's resources and, more importantly, create a system for this, and I dare say that this system is sustainable. By launching this reform and building on the five-year experience gained in the development of the system, this service structure will be sustainable beyond 2020. Although, yes, when we are talking about the time when the European Union will be used, it may last until 2023, according to the rules that have been made to us.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U65	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U66	In the short time remaining, Tarmo Tamm will be able to ask a question to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U67	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! As far as I know, there are at least three judgments of the Supreme Court that the Government of the Republic does not comply with. Firstly, the funding of local authorities, which is inadequate. Secondly, the remuneration for the toleration of technical installations, which is unfair. Thirdly, the obligation imposed on local authorities to finance private schools that are not legal. When will the Government of the Republic comply with the judgments of the Supreme Court, and do you think the Supreme Court's decision is intended to be enforced?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U68	Thank you. Of course, the decisions of the Supreme Court are intended for enforcement. Since our time is short now, I cannot explain the details of all these three decisions. But I can assure you that, if you take, for example, the most recent decision on the operational costs of private schools, the Minister for Education and Research and the Minister for Finance are working together to find a solution. We understand that a solution must be found, because the vacuum created by this decision is naturally not acceptable to the municipalities and also to those children who attend private schools. A brief answer to your relatively specific question as to whether the decisions of the Supreme Court are intended to be executed is yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U69	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U70	Thank you. I'll ask you more specifically then. Next year's state budget will be going to the final reading soon. What amount can private schools count for next year's state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U71	Thank you. This is, of course, primarily a question for the Riigikogu, which currently has the budget in its hands. However, if it should be necessary for the state to provide additional support to municipalities in order for private schools to also receive funding, this change will probably be presented. Whether or not such a need exists is currently being discussed by the Minister for Education and Science and the Minister for Finance. Before the solution they have proposed, I certainly cannot propose any solution. We will give them the opportunity to prepare to implement this decision and, if it requires expenditure from next year's budget, of course this change must be foreseen in the state budget at third reading at the latest.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U72	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! I'm asking about local government funding. The Supreme Court's decision was made as early as 2010. I read from the National Audit Office's audit that while in 2009 the costs of local governments amounted to 24% compared to state budget expenditure, in 2013 only 20%. Actually, things have gotten worse. How, then, will this judgment of the Supreme Court be enforced?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U73	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U74	I'm sorry about Mailis Reps and especially Aivar Kokka, but Question Time is over!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U75	Thank you. According to the government's programme of action, we are currently in the process of identifying the functions of local governments. I believe that, as a result of this analysis, it will also be possible to resolve this protracted issue, I really agree that its resolution has been delayed, which functions are, in fact, national and what functions are the functions of local governments. We recognise that it is sometimes very difficult for local governments to distinguish whether they perform a national or a local authority function by providing one or the other essential service. But I agree with you basically that a solution needs to be found. There's work going on for this.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U76	Honourable Riigikogu! Kalmer Lain, an alternate member of the Riigikogu, is based on the resignation of Reno Laidre. He's gonna have to take an oath now. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U77	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! By taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu as part of the XII Riigikogu, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U78	Now you can hand over drafts and inquiries. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U79	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! On behalf of the Committee on Social Affairs, I am handing over the draft law amending the Law on Medicinal Products. Its purpose is to ensure the availability of pharmacy services in areas with lower demand, in other words in rural areas where there is no general pharmacy or its structural unit and the location of the nearest pharmacy is far from the local population. According to the draft, in a region with less demand, a pharmacy service is required to be provided by an undertaking authorised to provide general pharmacy services, which has set up at least 10 pharmacies in the major cities of Estonia and whose activities are most profitable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U80	Andre Sepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U81	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Foreign Affairs initiates the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Construction of the Parliamentary Assembly of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation'. At its meeting on 18 November, the Committee on Foreign Affairs supported the proposal of the Estonian Reform Party Group to appoint Mr Jürgen Ligi as a member of the delegation in place of Mati Raidma. The committee's proposal to the Riigikogu Board is to set a deadline for submitting amendments to the draft and it will be 28 November at 16:00.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U82	Ladies and gentlemen, why are you so excited today? The election's not until March! Liisa-Ly Pakosta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U83	On behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, I have a draft law amending § 26 of the Income Tax Act. The presentation of the bill is due to the fact that we made childcare and kindergarten equal in the Riigikogu at one of the great moments. In the Committee on Culture, all parties agreed that paying for the two services that have been made equal should also be done in the same way. The Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Finance were of exactly the same opinion. However, after the vote, it became clear that the amendment to Paragraph 26 of the Income Tax Act did not work. We hope that, in the light of the discussions in the Committee on Culture, we will also be able to add to this draft, that it will receive the same unanimous support as during the discussions in the Committee on Culture and as expressed in the positions of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Social Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U84	Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U85	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, From the point of view of Estonia's future, it is extremely important that all decisions made by the Government of the Republic and the Riigikogu in the interests of our security and economic advancement have the widest possible support and, after making these decisions, have as few questions as possible. Such questions have arisen now, after the so-called gas agreements concluded at the beginning of this week between Estonia and Finland. In Question Time, the Prime Minister did not answer all the questions we asked on this subject. Therefore, allow me, on behalf of Urmas Reinsalu, Juhan Parts, Priit Sibula and myself, to ask the Prime Minister about the construction of a LNG terminal in Finland. As we know, several experts, as well as the European Commission's analyses, have stressed that the best location of the regional LNG terminal in terms of all costs and the security context could be Estonia. But now, with his decision, the Estonian Prime Minister has given a gift to Finland to some extent and has, in fact, given up an investment that significantly strengthens Estonia's security. We therefore have five questions on which we would like clarity, and we will present them to the Prime Minister in the form of an inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U86	On behalf of the Bureau, I have adopted three drafts and one inquiry. Their processing and transmission shall be carried out in accordance with the procedures laid down in the Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please! 82 members of the Riigikogu are present, 19 is missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U87	We will start working on the points on today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of draft law 677 on child protection initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. Mailis Reps, please, on behalf of the Central Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U88	Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U89	I'm asking for more time! Wait, please, Mailis, let them calm down!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U90	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! We have come to the round of speeches prior to the final vote on the Child Protection Act. I will address some of the questions raised by the Centre Party Group. We are in a situation where, unfortunately, there are many children living next to us, whose daily coping is difficult and who need side-by-side intervention and help, whether it be because of poverty or loss of parental care. In order to improve the situation of children, more cooperation between the state and local government is essential, even if only to ensure that there is a child welfare worker in every local government. Currently, only 38% of municipalities employ a special specialist for child welfare work. In the rest of the municipalities, social workers work in child protection, who have many tasks other than child protection, and therefore the detection of children in distress may be affected and intervention may be delayed. The Group of the Estonian Centre Party naturally considers it important to complete the Child Protection Act in line with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, which gives priority to the interests of the child. Unfortunately, however, the new draft law on child protection has raised a great many questions in society, and today, when we are in the final phase of the debate, a number of problems remain unresolved. First of all, there has been concern in society, which is perhaps the most important question, that poverty may be the reason why a child is separated from the family. Why is such a concern in society? The reason is the fear that we will follow the example of Scandinavia. Social media is full of examples of cases in Sweden and Norway, also in Finland, where thousands of children are separated from the family each year, and very often because of the family's financial problems alone. We therefore need to give certainty that we are talking in the new law more about aid measures where the state and local government have to intervene, and poverty must not and cannot be the reason for family separation. In addition, during the procedure of the draft law on child protection, child protection workers have identified a number of problems that arise in their daily work, which this draft law does not solve. I'll name three of them. First of all, the most important one. Child welfare workers are very concerned that they are not getting information on a child in danger quickly enough. Family doctors, not even schools or other institutions of the child, such as recreational schools, who are constantly in contact with the child and could spot and perhaps spot problems with the child, do not have an obligation to be informed. Second, access to the child. Even if children's guards receive information about a child in danger, the child's family still lacks the obligation to cooperate with child protection, this obligation does not come out of this law. Children's guards are worried. The problem of opening the door alone has been discussed quite a bit in society. It may be that the situation of a child in danger is discussed by the media, especially social media, and in public spaces, basically all decisions have been made about the family, but there are very few opportunities for childguards to actually intervene or assist the child. As a result, children's guards proposed to the Commission which, unfortunately, either due to lack of time or unwillingness, was essentially undisputed. What opportunities for influence have they offered? They have requested that child benefits, in particular parental benefits, be linked to cooperation with child protection and custody institutions. Life has shown that very often child benefits are increasing right now, but especially parental benefits, this means that ultimately this family, who has not been very cooperative, will start to cooperate quickly quite surprisingly. These are extreme cases. Fortunately, there are not many of them in society, but precisely on the basis of these very sad cases and in order to try to prevent them from happening in the future, we are dealing with this bill. It is also important to note the introduction of an administrative procedure, which I also pointed out at second reading on behalf of the Central Party Group and myself. Children's guards have been anxious about 48 hours in the original draft and 72 hours later, during which time they will have to get a decision from the court as to whether or not a child needs to be separated from the family. The reaction of childguards has been unambiguous: there must certainly not be a situation where, either due to procedural procedures or a lack of court response rate, the child must be returned to the family, regardless of the extreme need, before a solution is found. These are just a few of the problems that have been highlighted during the procedure for this draft. But in conclusion, it may be appropriate to pay attention to what has caused fear. The whole approach to child protection and the rights of the child raises questions. In the light of this law, which is likely to be adopted today, society is being given a kind of signal that children are somehow separate from the family. As the Commission rapporteur told us at second reading, the concept of family was introduced into the law declaratively. This is the message that has been most painfully commented on, this aspect must not be underestimated. Children, especially young children, need family support; they also, of course, need personal protection, but the whole concept cannot be built on the fact that children need protection from their parents. However, we are talking about the child's right to be with his family. The family must receive support for a very long time before extreme measures are needed. In summing up, it can be said that, as there are very many issues in the air, the Central Party Group does not support the adoption of this draft as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U91	Heljo Pikhof, please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U92	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! The closer the elections, the more there will be situations where the draft, which has been fully approved at first reading, is no longer fit for second reading. So now it's the Child Protection Act. We are being painted with a colorful picture of an evil official pulling a crying child out of a loving home with power. However, if there is a crying child in the picture, there is no need for deepening or argument; emotions are still on the ceiling. Let's go back in time. Act number one: 18 June and the elections are over six months. At the end of the first reading, Margus Tsahkna thanks both the draft authors and ministers for their good work on behalf of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union. It mentions the new Child Protection Act as a reform and welcomes the fact that the draft has been discussed very thoroughly with the parties and that the implementation part has also been agreed with them. I quote Margus Tsahkna: 'You certainly think I come here with a bad and evil message. But vice versa. I think that the draft law on child protection that we have before us today could be a good example of how the draft law should be drawn up. It's done a lot of work. This work has been very methodological and has involved a large number of people. ' Then he highlights the good aspects of the bill and draws attention to some minor problems, while expressing hope: 'But these are small things that, I really hope, will be dealt with after the adoption of the Child Protection Act when this law is implemented. ' Margus Tsahkna adds: 'I think we can only accept this law in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. If we are going to process the state budgets for the coming years, we should remember that we have adopted such a good law, and make sure that its implementation is financially guaranteed. This could be a cross-party issue. I don't think there's gonna be a political caption here. I wish everyone strength and courage in implementing this law. IRL supports this law. ' I must say that Margus Tsahkna, as the only member of the IRL, tabled an amendment to the draft law on child protection. This concerned the temporary removal of a child in danger from the family. This amendment was also taken into account by the Commission. Act two: November 5th. Almost five months have passed since the first reading and the elections are at the door. The draft is at second reading in the Chamber. Many IRL members are extremely critical of the draft and express their views on the platform. I quote Priit Sibulat: 'First, the bill creates an understanding that children should be protected from their parents. A vision of a conflicting relationship between children and parents will be created, and then a regulation will be developed to ensure the help of the state to the weaker party, the child. The bill carries a socialist mentality, according to which the state is increasingly interfering with the law of parents to raise and care for their children. Parents will be reduced to a position where their natural right to raise their children and care for them will be treated as a privilege granted by the State. 'Jne, et cetera. Kaia Iva summarises on behalf of the group: 'The draft is a long step in the right direction, but there are no more general provisions on child protection in the draft. Children whose life or health is not in danger are out of observation. As a fundamental principle of child welfare, the right to grow in a family has not been laid down. In order to remedy these shortcomings, we propose that the second reading of the draft be discontinued. Since the aim is to enforce the law from 2016, there is no time pressure, and it would probably be possible to provide a large part of the explanations in the draft explanatory memorandum. This would be the fastest and most effective way to prevent any further delay, as it would be regrettable if the interpretations of the law were to become apparent through painful, time-consuming and family-traumatic case law. ' It should be noted that for the second reading, the Commission supplemented the draft with such a sentence: 'The natural environment for the development and growth of a child is family. ' The Centre Party has tabled four amendments to the draft. On behalf of their group, too, the second reading highlighted points that should have been regulated differently, but unfortunately we have only heard most of them in the Chamber. For example, a number of paragraphs cannot be applied without further interpretation or explanation. The question arises as to what these paragraphs are. It was argued that child protection workers are very concerned about the emphasis on § 1 in relation to the administrative procedure law, etc. For this 72 hours, which has been very much here, I can say that the Centre Party has tabled an amendment that provided for 96 hours here, and I supported it in the Commission. Now I'm talking about the law. After the entry into force of the Child Protection Act, the protection of family and private life will not be reduced, but, on the contrary, will increase. In what way? In particular, the separation of a child from the family is governed by the family law currently in force since July 2010. Our opponents are happy to overlook this fact. Under both this law and the future Child Protection Act, a child can only be separated from the family if the child's life or health is in danger if the parent has caused the danger and refuses to provide assistance to the child. The Child Welfare Act does not regulate the separation of a child from the family; it is governed by the Family Act, which entered into force in July 2010. § 134 states that the separation of a child from the family can be based on the abuse of custody by a parent. Family law states that abuse of custody is the neglect of a child, the inability of parents to perform their duties or the conduct of a third party, and that parents do not want or are unable to prevent a danger and that it threatens the physical, mental or mental well-being of the child. The risk to the child's well-being is assessed by the court in the collection and whether the local government has taken other measures to support the child and the family. So we already have everything regulated by law. Thus, a mere economic livelihood of the family, a small income or a material deprivation cannot be a separate reason for separating the child from the family. It must be demonstrated to the Court that the parent is a threat to the child's well-being. Now I'm gonna talk a little bit more about the law. The current Child Protection Act, which dates back to 1993, consists mainly of slogans, while not organising or properly concluding the role of the institutions concerned. In order to protect children as best as possible, the new law must be specific. At last, the duties of the government, the Ministry of Social Affairs, county governments, local governments and the Social Insurance Board have been regulated. It is very important that this draft also provides for the obligation for all persons who have information on the child's need for assistance to report to the child who are in danger and regulates the situation in which the child needs help or is in danger. The Social Democrats support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U93	Priit Sibula has the right to object.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U94	Thank you. I wanted to thank Mrs Pikhof because my views were given adequately. Just to add, in my speech of 5 November, I also used Varro Vooglaiu's text, which was a little confusing. Although I have never said anything in support of this bill, and I have always thought that it would really reduce the role of parents and raise the role of officials, I must say that IRL is allowed to reconsider. Some of us even changed parties. There's nothing strange about people changing their mind from time to time, but I haven't.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U95	Liisa-Ly Pakosta, please, on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U96	It is easy for me to speak here today because Heljo Pikhof has already talked about most of the IRL's views. I'm sorry there was so little talk about the Social Democrats. I also congratulate Mailis Reps, who also spoke in his speech about a number of programmatic positions of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union. What do I have to add to all this? I totally agree that if we read every single paragraph of this bill, they look pretty good. It is also very easy to prove that, even before the draft reached the Riigikogu at all, IRL pointed out that these beautifully-sounding sections need a long and thorough explanation so that both child protection workers and families can interpret them in a slightly more unambiguous way. We have stressed this need before the draft came to this house and throughout the period during which the Child Protection Act has been pending in the Riigikogu. Perhaps we really need to think about whether the members of the Riigikogu or the political groups could also propose improvements in the future on the explanatory notes to the drafts. I admit that one of the few things I've acquired in raising children is knowing that almost always grandmothers are right. Especially when it comes to children, grandmothers should be able to speak more often. I really cared about what Mare Rossmann said recently, yes, the same teacher who, on 17 June 1988, said in the singing court that we should be many and let all of us go well, that there are two things that she is now hurting her heart. These are children who can't do anything for themselves, and education. In these two sentences, the idea of the Estonian state, the guarantee of its survival and the basis for its survival. The Child Welfare Act is, of course, very important for Estonia; it is a very necessary law. Unfortunately, however, we cannot approach this law as the Social Democrats did. I remember the story of a sissy who wrote in the ad that she would take a tenant without pets, but the tenant would show up with a snake, a dog and a cat and say, "Let's leave these three without discussing it, we're just talking about me being a tenant. " Mare Rossmann wrote a dialogue as early as 2010, when the new Child Protection Act began to be prepared: "I recently heard a young men's two talk at the mall. 'You know, krt, got drunk for three days and had a party. I went home, you fucking hangover. The old man fell on the show. I looked at the smartphone and didn't bother to listen. Then he raised his hand and I think he was gonna kick some ass. I just said stop it or I'll call the cops. He put his hand down and he was quiet. 'The other one knew that 'there was a law coming that a parent who punished his child would be placed on a plate'. 'Cool stuff,' thought the first. " The experienced teacher then called for a human approach. Of course, he reminded us that no children should be defeated, but he pointed out how stressed and distressed many parents are. Yesterday we were able to read the UNICEF overview of children from rich countries in 2008-2012. In almost all rich countries, after the recession, families with children have been the main losers, but in Estonia especially. In Estonia, 11000 children living in poverty have been added for just a few years. It's an alarm clock that something very important is moving in the very wrong direction. There are fewer children, and the birth of the first children in the family has been drastically reduced. People feel insecure. An example of this insecurity is even the only introduction to the Child Protection Act published so far in the Family and Home magazine, which starts with parental confusion in the air, as the new draft Child Protection Act also prohibits all acts that could harm a child emotionally or mentally, in addition to physical punishment of children. For the first time in this article, we will find explanations from specialists about what it means to harm a child emotionally or spiritually. Let me give you some examples. For example, a specialist says that child overserving or pimping can also be regarded as mental harm. The daunting parents do not see the real needs of themselves or the child, and it is very burdensome for the child to be the meaning of the parent's life. If the parent does not stand up for his needs and does everything for the child, the child will not learn to consider other people. He cannot be independent either, for he constantly needs parents, just as his parents need him. That was the opinion of a specialist. It is difficult to say what parents should do about it in the families of the Republic of Estonia. This magazine also contains the proverbs of another specialist for parents. He says that sometimes a child needs to cross borders with a child in a secure way, such as letting him touch the hot soup. I think a specialist has the right to give that advice, but I wouldn't advise any parents to do that. The fact that we have a number of beautiful sentences in one bill, many of which, as I have heard, have at least 101 different interpretations from this hall, and for which there is no word in the explanatory memorandum, no example, no description, can be the idea of lawmaking in 2014 in the Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia. The fact that the draft law on child protection creates so much stress and so different interpretations even at different levels of court, as we have seen on the basis of an article that has not yet entered into force, this is the subject of neglect of a child, does not justify calling it a good law as a whole. Of course, there are a lot of good things in this law. We've counted them several times. However, the main questions are further explained, for example, through intimidation, neglect and the provision of material opportunities for the child, etc. Yes, of course, Heljo, we do not adopt the law on the sole basis that economic well-being cannot be the only argument for taking a child away from his parents. But what if it is accompanied by regular neglect of a child, such as while a parent is working? Is there a vessel yet? No one can answer. Grandmothers know that many things need to be solved so that the problem is solved in a humane and nice manner. All these human and nice explanations should have been in the explanatory memorandum to the draft law, as it is in the case of Nordic laws, where a large number of paragraphs have been written down. After all, we consider child protection to be so important that we do not feel sorry for its objectives and the idea of explaining it to people. I am very sorry that this has not been done despite repeated calls. In view of the importance of child protection in Estonia, the Pro Patria and Res Publica Association cannot support this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U97	Laine Randjärv, please, on behalf of the Reform Party Group. Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U98	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am extremely pleased with what the previous speaker said about the need to listen to what grandmothers say, because they are always right about everything that concerns children. Therefore, as a grandmother, I am very pleased to present the views of the Reform Party Group. Unfortunately, the draft law on child protection pending before the Riigikogu has brought with it uneasy questions that may arise primarily from a lack of understanding of the text of the bill, but in some cases also from deliberate propaganda. I believe that, for the sake of clarity, some clarifications must be given, apart from those that have already been given by the previous speakers in this Chamber. I think repeating is the mother of wisdom. The drafting of the draft and the negotiations with associations dealing with children and families have been comprehensive, regardless of what they are trying to say. Thus, the bill has become much more meaningful than it was when it first came to this hall. In the debate on the draft law, the opponents of the draft act have put two main arguments at the forefront: the increase in the rights of the child protection worker is condemned and it is intimidated as if the new draft would allow the child protection worker to take the child from the family easily. The extension of the decision-making power of a child protection worker is certainly positive, as the extension of rights also involves strict standards of competence and training obligations. The Social Affairs Committee has also included in the draft, for example, a proposal made by the Child Protection House network, which obliges the local government to set up a child and family committee at the municipal or municipal administration as an advisory body if necessary, so that only one official does not decide on the fate of the child. With regard to the second provision, it is important to point out that a child can only be separated from the family if the child's life or health is in danger, if this danger is caused by the parent and if the parent refuses to provide assistance to the child. Only then, and no other way, can a child in danger be separated from the family that caused him trouble, and then only temporarily, for up to 72 hours. So all the fears that a child will simply be taken away from the family are completely unfounded. If you go into the existing legal provisions, you have to admit that according to the law in force, it is even easier to take a child away from the family. Children's organisations have pointed out that the child is more likely to be separated from the family in case of danger, either too late or not at all. Certainly, the child must not be taken away from the family at ease, but timely action can guarantee his safety and even his life. Once again, no one is going to take the baby away from a normal and secure environment. The draft also pays more attention to the prevention of problems with children. Estonian UNICEF has emphasised that the law must also increase the responsibility of parents and the family for the safety of children. This has been done in the course of the changes. The main objective of the Child Welfare Act is to protect the rights of all children, whether they live with their parents, guardians, carers or in a substitute home. What, then, does the new Child Welfare Act change? I'll tell you points by points, it'll be easy to understand. First of all, the law lays down the principles of child welfare and rights, which are mandatory across sectors and for all state, local government and other institutions. Among other things, cooperation, prevention and communication, the responsibility of the parent and the person raising the child, as well as the importance of the family as an environment for the development and growth of the child, are set out. Secondly, the law regulates for the first time the organisation of child protection, including the tasks of the Government of the Republic, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the County Government, the Local Government and the Social Insurance Board. Thirdly, the law imposes requirements on the child protection worker and his/her qualifications and restrictions on working with children. Fourthly, the law defines the principles governing the treatment of the child, including the pursuit of the child's interests and the prohibition of abuse. Fifthly, the law regulates a situation where a child needs help when his or her well-being is at risk, is suspected of mistreatment, neglect or something like that, or is in danger and his or her life or health is at risk. Sixthly, the law contains provisions on the protection of children separated from the family and the responsibilities of children's institutions. Seventhly, the law describes national and administrative supervision. When the Child Protection Act comes into force, the protection of family and private life will improve rather than deteriorate, as has been argued in many cases. The Reform Party supports the adoption of the draft as a law and calls on everyone to vote in favour of this draft. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U99	Honourable Riigikogu, the commission has proposed to put the draft to a final vote of 677. The draft law becomes a law only if the majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is in favour of it. That's why we're doing, please, a presence check! 83 members of the Riigikogu are present, 18 are missing. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law on child protection initiated by the Government of the Republic 677. Please take a stand and vote. There were 54 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft as 677 law and 24 against, with no abstentions. The Child Welfare Act has been passed. [[Interjection.]] Sorry, 1 member of the Riigikogu abstained! I was inconspicuous and wrong. There were 54 members of the Riigikogu and 24 members of the Riigikogu with 1 abstention. The Child Welfare Act has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U100	The next item is the third reading of draft Act 678 on Employment Capacity Support initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. Marika Tuus-Laul, please, on behalf of the Centre Party Group. Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U101	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will start by quoting: 'If you imagine what is happening as a picture, you will see a large unbraked roller on it, which is being held by those who have a state power. While the power of the state has generously slowed down the process and invited dissidents to discuss matters, the idea that someone could stop the roller seems to be out of the question. ' So the Master's student of social work at the University of Tartu, Asko Uri, discusses the issue of work capacity reform. Indeed, the aim of the reform is noble: to help people with special needs and disabilities to work, to provide them with tools, perhaps a computer, even the training that is needed, and to dream that all this can be done through one door at an unemployment fund. What can be against that? However, we do not see that the necessary steps have been taken to that end. Firstly, if job creation is still the responsibility of the private sector, but no further incentives or tax incentives are made, then it remains to ask that if employers have still not wanted to hire disabled people or have not paid to employ them, why should they do so now. Only the promise in the goodwill agreement that the package of benefits will be completed by 2016 will give us absolutely no assurance that we can support the law with such shortcomings here today. I think we've asked where these jobs come from dozens of times. In most cases, part-time jobs are needed. We haven't received an answer. They still say the private sector does. For example, we know that there are no jobs in the country. Men have fled to Finland, only elderly people, children and mothers remain in the village, some unemployed and discouraged, and people who are bottled. The bus passes through there once a day. Here's the reality. But just talking about social jobs for people with disabilities makes the coalition gasp. Secondly, if no significant changes are made to support people with disabilities, the reform has failed. If a person cannot get out of his home, if he cannot even get dressed, if he cannot get into a job and if the municipalities lack support and support services and the state only provides the minimum money for this, then this reform will not succeed. A lot of EUR 50 million promised for five years is really a drop in the sea. One of the laws before us has a resounding title 'Law amending the Social Welfare Act, the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and other laws', but social, support and ancillary services are not basically discussed here, this is a matter for local governments. Social transport, support person, personal assistant, home service, care outside the home, etc. Without them, a disabled person cannot cope even if the employer hires him or her. But these services are scarce. I will ask you which reform we are talking about. Everything will be allowed to come back sometime in the distant future. But it's a half law, we can't support it. While the law on the table talks about rehabilitation as a service provided by the state, it is claimed that this service will improve and its volume will increase, but I will say once again that if only 509 people are rehabilitated in 2016, what reform will we be talking about? If, in five years, 15 000 people are to be employed, Europe has been working even more, half a thousand rehabilitation services per year are non-existent, and only slightly more than half of these services are in employment. However, only 0.4% of rehabilitation services are provided to people already in employment, i.e. they do not need to be treated at all. That's pretty unfair. I mean, we make a minimum contribution to services, no incentives for employers, and we spend most of the money on building and launching a new system of unemployment funds for reform, we create 500 new jobs, and the bulk of the money goes to administration. Inevitably, the question arises as to why so much money will be placed on one part of the reform and so little will be given to the other parts. The answer will come out of here. 100,000 people need to be examined and re-evaluated. Clearly, the state wants to save on the loss of disability pensions. It is obvious that the aim is to make some people healthy and able to work by means of a new evaluation. This is how some people are selected out of this system and become ordinary unemployed. Then the state can say that the number of pensioners decreased. However, a disabled person loses a disability pension, which was a guaranteed income for up to five years, and it is replaced by a much more precarious grant, which depends directly on the discretion or mood of the case manager of the unemployment fund. Looks like the whole PR campaign's for people with special needs and health problems to work! 'It is intended to achieve the hidden objectives of this reform. Unfortunately, this is how we see it. The employment rate of disabled people in Estonia is very high, with 100,000 people with disabilities working. We are an example to other countries in Europe. So helping them to work cannot be the real reason for the reform. But such a half-way and impact-free reform programme, which changes more than a tenth of the lives and destiny of the Estonian people, similar to the experiment, the Centre Party certainly cannot support. We believe that this reform will spend millions of euro on unreasonable expansion of the administration and will deprive people with disabilities of subsidies and services. This will make life more difficult for people with special needs in the near future than it is now. These laws, I would say so, remain at the soul of the Reform Party and the Social Democrats, I am afraid that for many years to come, because these errors will only begin to occur in a few years' time. Both this and the next draft law to be discussed are essentially included and the Group of the Estonian Central Party will vote against them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U102	Jüri Jaanson, please, on behalf of the Reform Party Group. Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U103	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that today we will reach the operational starting point for the launch of the work capacity reform and adopt the first laws needed to implement the reform. This is an important step forward in the social and working life of our country, which makes it possible to participate much better in the labour market for people who need support and help to get there competitively. By the end of the second reading last week, it was clear that the stage of substantive discussions on the first two draft laws of the reform was over. There are fundamental confrontations that go back to world-view perceptions rather than to an objective assessment of how we should implement and proceed with the reform of support systems for people with special needs and reduced working capacity. We are at a point where we no longer pay the arguments, but the belief that the reform will start in the form presented. However, as a common element, a large part of the target group, people with reduced capacity for work, senses the need for reform and the necessity for its implementation. The understanding that the reform of working capacity is indispensable is confirmed by independent studies and the views of the reform partners. All of them have been studied in the design of the reform and a large part has been taken into account. In order to involve people with special needs and reduced working capacity in society and employment, we will have a large amount of EUR 354 million for the coming seven years, both the capital of the Estonian state and the capital of the European Social Fund. This means that, with the support of the European Union, we will be able to carry out an extremely necessary and inevitable reform, for which we should find the means anyway. I would like to thank all parties, including the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People and its sub-organisations, as well as the representatives of all other target groups, the unemployment fund and the Social Affairs Committee officials for the great work that has been done in preparing the draft legislation on labour capacity reform. In particular, I would like to express my thanks to the opposition for the critical sense and the substantive amendments, many of which have been expressed in the draft law. Ladies and gentlemen, I will once again highlight some of the essential foundations and principles on which the reform of working capacity is based. There is a significant improvement in helping people with reduced working capacity to find a job and keep a job. Focusing on each case, the principle of individual approach applies. People with a lack of working capacity will be guaranteed a higher income. A comprehensive package is offered to people with reduced working capacity. The assessment of the ability to work, the payment of the allowance and the provision of services are all carried out in one institution, the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund. The measures are linked and targeted. From a national perspective, income protection will be created for all people of working age and services will be provided on similar grounds. Social protection for people of working age is removed from the pension system. By the way, it has a symbolic meaning and contributes to a change of attitude. Work capacity reform relies on cooperation with and advice from employers. In addition, the draft law amending the Social Welfare Act, the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and other laws will provide these people with important social support both in everyday life and in working life. New services will be created for people with reduced working capacity, including job protection and occupational rehabilitation. The organisation of assistance, social rehabilitation and special care services will be improved. To sum it up. Work capacity reform is destroying prejudice. This makes the opportunities for people with reduced working capacity on the labour market and for inclusion in society considerably more comprehensive and similar to those of non-essential members of society. But that doesn't mean we don't have to go any further. Great work is ahead of us, with prevention of reduced working capacity and the establishment of a system of insurance for accidents at work and occupational diseases, so that both the employer and the employee are involved in reducing and avoiding work-related accidents and occupational diseases. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm gonna finish with a little more personal approach. Last week, at second reading of the draft laws, I was asked about personal coping. I then described my livelihood here in the Riigikogu. I told you I'd use a radio aid, a transcribation service on the remote, as well as other hearing aids. Thanks to the generous support of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, I have all these opportunities, but unfortunately many do not. Our duty, I repeat, it is our duty to guarantee the same opportunities for everyone who needs them. The Reform Party invites all of you to create these opportunities and to vote in favour of the two draft legislation on labour capacity reform today! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U104	Heljo Pikhof, please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U105	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! There are now around 100000 disability pension businesses in Estonia. Does this mean that one in ten people of working age has a serious health problem that prevents him from working? The honest answer is no, it doesn't. Let us consider, even if this is the case, that if unemployment increases, the number of pensioners will also increase. In these counties, however, where it is difficult to find work in Põlva, Ida-Virus, Jõgeval, there is also a higher rate of incapacity pensioners, because the current system of support for disabled people is still systemless, but health insurance is also provided by a fingertip. The lion's share of people with reduced working abilities would like to share in social life and earn their own bread on the table. It is precisely helping them to work that is the aim of the work capacity reform. We already face labour shortages in one area and another. Thinking about tomorrow, we are talking about the need to bring in migrant workers with an ever louder voice. However, we have a number of people who, with the support of the labour force reform, would like to work even part-time. In short, the reform of working capacity is needed for current incapacity pensioners, employers and also society as a whole. Society as a whole understands that. Since spring, the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu has listened to the opinions of chambers, associations and societies of people with special needs. We have analysed them and tried best to take account of them, as well as of the views of several scientific studies. From the Ministry of Social Affairs, and at first, rather bumpy drafts have become unknown today. Let me give you a few more details. Firstly, as you know, just in order to have time to consider the pros and cons, the entry into force of the laws was postponed. Disability will gradually be assessed in a new way. From the first half of 2016, new applicants will be assessed in this way, but from July of the same year, they will be entitled to pensions for incapacity for work (according to the current wording) who will have the time to review the percentage of incapacity for work assigned to them. They shall be recorded either partially or with a lack of capacity for work. So on and on. Some of the current incapacity pension businesses will not be able to assess their ability to work until after 2020. It is also well known to you that there was an increase in the income limit from which part-time workers' allowance will be reduced. Instead of the initially planned EUR 641 monthly income, the allowance will be partially reduced from EUR 960 salaries. For a person with partial working capacity, the payment of the allowance will be stopped from EUR 1300, while for a person with no working capacity, it will only be EUR 1600. Life has shown that so much can be earned only by a marginal proportion of people with special needs. The additional costs of the assessment of working capacity have also been included in the draft if the unemployment fund exceptionally considers it necessary to send the customer to the expert doctor. We are talking about, for example, special transportation, personal helper, sign language interpreter, etc. The current disability pension is maintained if it is higher than the new disability allowance. No one is being punished over the top, as the more acute critics of the work capacity reform have been complaining, as the unemployment fund can also be contacted by telephone or electronic means to meet the so-called activity requirements. All of this is still done on a case-by-case basis and is justified, for example, when a person lives far away in rural areas or is unable to move easily because of a disability. According to the new version of the draft law, the unemployment fund cannot, in any case, be suspended until it is established why no contact has been held. On the proposal of the Chamber of Disabled Persons, the Social Affairs Committee extended from three months to six months the period during which a person seeking an assessment of his or her ability to work must attend a doctor's appointment before submitting his or her application. In the future, your ability to work can also be assessed during your stay on the sick leave. Not all the improvements can be made, and there is no point in talking about them here. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U106	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U107	Reform to be incomplete, thrown forward. However, the reality is that two laws cannot change social and regional policy and the health and education system. Yes, many things are stuck in cross-border laws and implementing legislation. Yes, they also need to be changed over time. This, however, does not give rise to the results of close joint work of nearly three years and to the millions of European Social Fund that we could use to bring people with special needs back into society. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Yesterday, the Ministry of Social Affairs signed a cooperation agreement on goodwill. The Agreement was signed, among others, by the Minister for Health and Labour and by the Minister for Social Protection. Thus, only the Social Democratic Party and the Reform Party have assumed responsibility for supporting and listening to people with special needs in the next Riigikogu. This is the only way to reach the missing services tomorrow and the day after tomorrow for those in need. I have one good example from Ida-Virumaa, about the activities of the unemployment fund there. This year, 60 out of 300 people with special needs who have received work at the unemployment fund. Work capacity reform takes place in Ida-Virumaa. I would like to say to Marika that it is not sad that some people who are now recognised as disabled or disabled will be cured. I think this is luck, and I think they're very happy about it too. If we go further from here, I would like to say that our group members convinced us to vote in favour of the two draft amendments to the labour force reform on 6 November in this very Chamber. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U108	Thank you. I ask for the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, Margus Tsahkna!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U109	Mr President, more time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U110	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U111	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good people who are watching this session and who are very many! I'm gonna start by saying what's gonna sound like in this hall. In fact, the idea remains to be heard outside this hall, in the minds of those people who are very closely watching what the Riigikogu is doing today with the draft Act on Employment Capacity Support. These are the same people with special needs, people with disabilities. When the word 'roller' is taken in the mouth in this remote control, it is usually done by the opposition, who says that the coalition drives over the opposition road roll. This draft should be independent of the political parties' world-view views. I am sure that all parties represented here in the Riigikogu hall actually want to stand up for the interests of disabled people. However, people with disabilities have repeatedly protested against this bill. They have organised at least three demonstrations and collected 3,500 signatures on the petition, which was also handed over to the Riigikogu. The procedure that has taken place has left them with a very clear feeling and understanding that it is precisely the coalition that has run over them by means of a roller coaster. I am not happy about this at all, although I am currently in opposition. In fact, no matter what this vote is going to be, these people will have exactly the feeling that it was the legislator of the Republic of Estonia, the Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia. On 15 October, in the Postimees newspaper, Eiki Nestor said: "This reform requires the support of those for whom it is done, for whom it is intended to improve the situation. If they do not support it and look ahead and do not come along, this reform will not work. " Today, we have the opportunity to follow Eik's words, so that he really has the right to observe that if people with disabilities do not support the reform of their working capacity, it will not work. But when I listened to the position taken here, I got the feeling that the votes were coming together. I would like to remind you that no political party in this Chamber, as well as the disabled, has challenged the objective of the labour capacity reform, which I am going to repeat here: it is about helping people with special needs and people with disabilities into the labour market, given their abilities. These same people want to be actively involved in society, but there is a lack of opportunities for them to fulfil the objective of a labour capacity reform. We are talking about concrete proposals, which they themselves have put forward, so that they can get out of their homes, actually move, so that they can actively participate in the labour market, apply for a job and go to work. We are in this Chamber, and they themselves have repeatedly given examples of specific problems that this capacity for work does not solve. That is why there is an historic opportunity that there is both the political will to make things right and the EUR 350 million of Europe, which I think is untapped. Meelis Paavel, Chairman of the Management Board of the Unemployment Insurance Fund, has made his position public. He is a person who manages an organisation that needs to put this capacity reform into practice in practice. He has said that if there are no social services to help people out of their homes, the success of the reform is questionable. Believe me, Meelis Paavel knows what he's talking about, because he's going to have to actually implement this work capacity reform for the people it's meant for. On the one hand, the government wants to be good for these people, because, in the course of the work capacity reform, it is intended to create at least 15 000 jobs for people with special needs, even though employers themselves have questioned the feasibility of implementing this objective. But let's get a figurative figure. The jobs are located on one side of the river, but the people for whom they want to create these jobs are located on the other side of the river. Work capacity reform forces disabled people to cross this river, but the bridge across the river has not been built. Broadly speaking, these people are forced into the river without being given a helping hand to get out of it. That is why, above all, I appeal to the left wing of this Chamber, the Socialists, who yourself have been openly critical of this draft. Just one more moment before the vote, think about whether it is really necessary to give people with disabilities a message that they are being driven over by a roller and that their everyday problems are not really being solved. The IRL Group is in the final vote against this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U112	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. We will begin the preparation of the final vote on the draft 678. Dear colleagues, since the draft requires a majority of the Riigikogu's membership, we will do a verification of presence before the final vote on the draft 678. 87 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 14. I will put draft 678 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. There were 55 votes against and 32 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. Draft Act 678 on Employment Capacity Support initiated by the Government of the Republic has been passed as a law. The second item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U113	Let's move on to the third item. The third reading of the Social Welfare Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and the Act amending other laws begins. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? They do. I'm opening negotiations. I would like to ask for the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union Group, Margus Tsahkna!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U114	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! I just left the speaker's office, but I came back here because it is now a bill that is directly related to the draft law on disability benefits, which was passed in this very hall as a law. The draft Act amending the Social Welfare Act, the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and other laws is the draft which should establish the services that disabled people have asked the Riigikogu to introduce across the country. This is precisely the draft that should make it possible to actually meet the objectives set out in the capacity for work reform. But this bill, unfortunately, doesn't. The talk that has been said by the government coalition and that has been said by ministers that these solutions will never come in the future, but simply not all laws can be passed at the same time, is not taken seriously. Disabled people have made their proposals. One specific issue is the establishment of standards for social welfare services across the country, so that, through local governments, the services that disabled people need in all parts of Estonia are guaranteed in order to meet the objectives of the employment capacity reform. Unfortunately, this bill does not impose them. Indeed, the draft will improve the system of allocation of aid and rehabilitation, and there are other details, but in order for you to understand, I repeat that this draft is a prerequisite for the work of the capacity reform. Unfortunately, the specific draft that we are going to vote on here does not create this assumption for the reform of working capacity. On behalf of the IRL Group, I say that we do not support this draft, and I hope that the majority of this House will not support it either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U115	I ask the representative of the Social Democratic Party Group, Heljo Pikhof, to speak at the Riigikogu Chair! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U116	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! As has been said, it is in our interest to create a situation in which as many people as possible can find appropriate applications. All the more so since we have 100,000 people who are missing or partially able to work (I may now have new concepts) and the number of pensioners (I may now have an old definition) has increased steadily and rapidly. A third of the current disability pensioners are working, but two thirds are not. Around 40,000 of them would be happy to work; they would like to earn a decent salary and participate in society if only there was a chance. This is not only a matter of living standards, but also of human dignity. As labour shortages worsen, employers are also becoming more interested in employing people with reduced capacity to work. The cost of helping a person with special needs to get on the job, or the lack of skills of a potential employee, may be an obstacle. However, employers who have so far dared to hire disabled workers strongly recognise their motivation and loyalty. Work capacity reform has started to help as many people as possible to work with complex and flexible measures. All workers, employers and also the economy as a whole with reduced working capacity will win. The greatest value can be considered to be a change in the way a person thinks. Of course, this is not happening overnight, yet we are no longer talking about incapacity for work but ability. After all, women of a middle age with joint illness and people of all ages with intellectual disabilities belong to the current pensioners for incapacity for work. The construction of ramps does not help some or others, although people with reduced working capacity tend to be depicted in wheelchairs. As many people as there are, there are needs. Everyone, individually, wills, abilities and barriers will be dealt with by the unemployment fund, which helps people find suitable jobs and provides re-training, tools and other things necessary for starting work. The Unemployment Insurance Fund will also be responsible for advising and assisting employers in applying a person with reduced working capacity to work. Not all the improvements can be made, and there is no point in talking here, but I will mention some important things. A single-door policy is being pursued, which has been crucial for people with disabilities. In other words, if a person goes in through the unemployment fund's door, he or she can apply at the same time to assess his or her working capacity and determine his or her disability and to receive a disability benefit and disability benefit. If necessary, he or she will receive an aid and be directed towards receiving rehabilitation services. Transport and support services are also provided for those who are not otherwise employed. Support person service is available for 1000 hours in the first year. One door also means that a person of working age with part-time work ability receives all the services necessary to find a job or to stay at work, whether it is advice, rehabilitation at work or adjustment of the job from the unemployment fund, while the Social Insurance Board provides support for people who do not have the capacity to work. As far as rehabilitation plans are concerned, the current regime has rightly been accused of venting public money. In order to receive occupational rehabilitation, it is no longer necessary to go first to prepare a plan. The need for rehabilitation, like all other employment services, is assessed by the case manager of the trained unemployment fund. In cooperation with the client, it is agreed to receive rehabilitation services or participate in the programme. The scope and choice of health restoration services should increase considerably and, of course, people and their needs should be taken into account. People with partial working capacity who are going to receive rehabilitation services through the unemployment fund may in future receive health-enhancing, health-enhancing services for up to EUR 1 500 per year instead of the current EUR 483. They are available to people who are looking for work and to those who work. Social democrats insist that rehabilitation services are also provided for people with reduced capacity to work who do not meet the requirements for activity. The age limit for students has been lost. Learning was originally intended to be taken into account for the activity requirement only until the age of 31. The Unemployment Insurance Fund is going to pay travel support from the European Social Fund if the staff member with special needs cannot use public transport. It is important that the unemployment fund actively cooperates with local authorities and finds solutions to provide social services in cooperation with them. The European Social Fund is intended to support the development and availability of local government services. In particular, municipalities are provided with a large injection of money to support the provision of services to people with special needs. Let's not leave people with a part-time job to fight for a job on their own! I repeat what I said in the debate on behalf of the group on the previous draft law: many of our group's members convinced us to vote in favour of the two draft amendments to the labour force reform in this Chamber on 6 November. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U117	Thank you. I would like more requests from the representatives of the political groups. They're not here. I'm closing the negotiations. We will begin the preparation of the final vote on the draft 693. Dear colleagues, since draft 693 does not require a majority in its composition, we will not carry out a verification of presence before the vote. I shall therefore put draft 693 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 52), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 32 members of the Riigikogu, with no abstentions. Draft Act 693 on amendments to the Social Welfare Act, Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law. The third item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U118	Let's move on to item number four. The third reading of the Act amending the State Death Allowance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? They do. I'm opening negotiations. It is a great honour to ask the Riigikogu for a chair of speech from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party Marika Tuus-Laul. Eight minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U119	Well, let's see. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, However, I would like to say a few words before adopting this law on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. The Centre Party Group supports this draft, but we think that it is still taking a very short step, too short a step. In the explanatory memorandum, it is quite misleading to say that this is a restoration of the payment of public funeral allowance, which is essentially similar to that laid down in the State Death Allowance Act in force before 1 July 2009. That's a lie. There is no resemblance here, that is totally wrong, because then the funeral allowance was paid to everyone whose family had been hit by the accident of a close family leaving and who applied. It was universal support, factual support, as was the birth grant, for example. Now, however, only those who have received income support at least once a year will be eligible for funeral allowance. There's still a very important difference. Under this law, the possible number of recipients of funeral allowance is less than 1% of all Estonian residents, just over 1000 people. The target group affected is small, the explanatory memorandum also says. So what we're doing here is still helping a very few people. It is probably hoped that people who do not come into contact with this subject will hear about it somewhere and think that the government will bring back the funeral allowance. Actually, that support doesn't come back. If the current government understands the funeral allowance so that only recipients of income support are poor and need this support, then let us always think about how many poor people there are in Estonia who do not receive income support or receive funeral support. We all know that approximately 18.7% of people, or 278000 people, live in relative poverty and nearly 100,000 people live in absolute poverty, but many poor people do not receive income support. If such a family is hit by an accident and the funeral is in the house, there is a problem where the money is taken. After all, funerals are very expensive, and the elderly no longer collect the so-called coffin money. This is simply not possible for them, because pensions are small, there is nothing to set aside, and the savings that have been made have disappeared because of the monetary reform. So, frankly, it's a little embarrassing to talk about it, but I think it should be even more embarrassing to have a power union that lost the coffin money five years ago. I would like to remind you once again that in 1993, when Estonia was very, very poor, the procedure for granting and paying the funeral allowance was adopted. The Estonian state was then able to pay this grant. I would like to give you an example that in 1993, the state budget was EUR 262 million, or EEK 4.1 billion. Now that our annual budget is EUR 8.4 billion, we will only give the funeral allowance back to less than 1% of people and we are still proud of it. Of course, it is high time to reduce the VAT on funeral services and supplies, which we raised from 5% to 18% and then 20% during the recession. Funerals are expensive and all the services involved are very, very expensive. I think it's time for the government to give up on people's accidents, people's deaths. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U120	Thank you. I ask Etti Kagarov, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group, to speak at the Riigikogu Chair! I would like to ask the representatives of the other political groups to prepare themselves if they wish.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U121	Good chairman of the sitting! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Though we are mortal, death seems to us distant and unexpected, and the departure of a loved one seems unfair. People feel helpless in a death - related situation. The payment of public funeral allowance to natural persons was abolished in 2009 due to the savings in public funds resulting from the economic crisis. Local authorities continued to receive support to compensate for the costs of burying an unknown or unconventional deceased. The purpose of this draft is to support economically disadvantaged persons by restoring the payment of public funeral allowance. However, it will not be paid to everyone, but only to those who belong to a family receiving income support within the meaning of the Social Welfare Act. This means that they have received income support at least once during the year. The positive aspect of this solution is the fact that support can be paid to the funeral organiser before the funeral takes place. EUR 250 is not a large amount, but it covers the minimum cost of organising the funeral, taking into account the prices of the companies providing funeral services. Although I agree with the previous speaker that the draft concerns a small number of people in terms of estimates and percentages, it is particularly helpful to people in need and in need and help these people at a difficult time. The Social Democratic Party Group supports the adoption of this draft as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U122	Thank you. I ask Marko Pomerants, representative of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, to the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U123	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, It'll help! IRL supports the adoption of this draft as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U124	Thank you. Any more calls? No, I'm closing the negotiations. We can go to the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 726 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. There are 70 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents or abstentions. The draft Act amending the State Death Support Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 726 has been adopted as a law. The fourth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U125	Let's move on to item five. The third reading of the draft Act amending the State Family Benefits Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Representatives of the political groups, would you like to negotiate? I would like to ask Etti Kagarov, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U126	Good chairman of the sitting! Good members of the Riigikogu! More than 1000 children live in Estonian orphanages. This is undoubtedly too large a number in our small country. In order to ensure the best development of a child, family has always been a priority, and he will remain one. At the same time, the family must be safe, supportive, and permanent for the child. Without family support, it is much more difficult to create an environment for a child to grow up to be a well - functioning person in life. Children without parental care need more than normal material conditions. A child needs an immediate and lasting parental relationship with a responsible person for age-appropriate development. This is the most important social relationship in early childhood. Even when the other environment is supportive, lack of affection for the child causes stress, affecting his or her health and mental development. When a child has had difficulties in establishing a close relationship in his or her early childhood, this later manifests itself in mood swings, behavioral skills, and social communication skills. There are also shortcomings in appropriate age-related behaviour and in communication with adults and the elderly. Support of EUR 45 is very important for dedicated care families that share love, support and guidance for children, providing them with positive prospects for the future. The state pays this allowance to nearly 2 000 children. Considering that the universal child allowance will also increase from the new year to EUR 45, the family will receive a total of EUR 285 per child. Replacement homes also ensure the care and love of the child, but growing up in the family will bring better results because it is possible to pay more attention to the child. Thank you once again to Minister for Social Protection Helmen Kütti, who was able to find support for care families in the government office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U127	Thank you very much. Any other requests to speak? No, I'm closing the negotiations. We will begin the preparation of the final vote on draft 727. Good colleagues, I'm going to put a draft to the final vote on 727. Please take a stand and vote. 70 members of the Riigikogu are in favour, there are no respondents or abstentions. Draft Act 727 amending the State Family Benefits Act initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted. The fifth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U128	Let's move on to item six. The third reading of draft law 745 on the implementation of the common agricultural policy of the European Union initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I'm opening negotiations. It is a great honour for me to ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group, Chairman of the Rural Affairs Committee Kalvi Tõud!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U129	Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, It should be said that the draft law implementing the common agricultural policy of the European Union is, above all, the draft implementing act implementing the rural development plan for support and direct payments in the future financial period. We will implement a total of EUR 992 million of RDP funds and EUR 1.009 billion of direct aid funds over the next period over the two pillars. It should be said that a few days ago, the European Commission added another EUR 6.9 million to the amount of direct payments for our dairy farmers, particularly in the context of economic sanctions, which are currently in a difficult situation for dairy farmers. We know that if we still need medium-term assistance for direct payments in the context of the European Union, we will receive rural payments well above the EU average per hectare of agricultural land during the period. While the European Union average is about EUR 570 per hectare of rural development aid, Estonia receives EUR 839 per hectare of agricultural land. Let it be said that, if direct payments are to ensure a stable income for our farmers, we will ensure the long-term competitiveness of the sector through support for the rural development plan. A key issue is how to give the agricultural sector a boost that reduces dependence on subsidies and how to get a greater share of income from the market. This is the area where the rural development plan can contribute. It should be said that during the current coalition, a significant number of funds have been raised from the pillar of direct payments, i.e. the first pillar, to encourage farmers not to depend so much on subsidies but to gain more competitiveness. A few words about these two pillars. In the case of direct payments, the Social Democratic Party believes that I will make the most important keywords. In our opinion, it is important that there are jobs in the country and that every farm and smoke give one job. It is a pleasure to say that in the next period we will increase the suckler cow premium for all those who have up to 25 suckler cows or heifers. There is also an increase in aid for dairy cows for disadvantaged dairy farmers with less than 100 dairy cows in the herd, but also for those with more than 100 cows but on islands where there is no nearby dairy industry. There will also be an increase in ewe and goat rearing aid for all those with at least 10 to 100 animals in the herd. It is also a great pleasure that, in the coming period, much attention will be paid to start-ups, or young people who are up to 40 years old. They may receive up to 25% higher UPT per hectare. Now, from the rural development plan. I believe that rural entrepreneurship and the local initiative are precisely the key to making better use of local resources to create jobs and improve the living environment. I think that, in the next period, the EUR 992 million that will be implemented through the rural development plan will provide precisely these opportunities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U130	Thank you. Okay. A procedural question, please, Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U131	Thank you. I have, yes, a procedural question. At least the third bill in a row is one that has been presented by the government and which I have also been the author of. In the meantime, have the Rules of Procedure changed that each time the floor is spoken, you must thank your parties? Is this some kind of rule of law that if the government has submitted a draft, the speaker must thank his party?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U132	Thank you. There is no such requirement directly, but it is not prohibited, so it is permissible. Juhan Parts, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U133	Thank you. I just want to train a young colleague, Mr Near: we are developing a practice of thanking the Reform Party. [[Laughter.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U134	Thank you. Let's just say, good fellows, that we are going to proceed with the hearing. I would like to ask for the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu, Representative of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U135	Ladies and gentlemen, I had no intention of taking the floor on behalf of the Group of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union, as the Group of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union supports the adoption of this draft as a law. But the previous speaker also encouraged me to take the floor to clarify some of the arguments and the figures that have been put on this board. Direct payments have been increased by more than 6 million by a decision of the European Commission due to the crisis in the dairy sector, a positive step. At the same time, during the new period, from 2014 to 20200, the government coalition has decided to withdraw EUR 70 million from direct payments and to transfer to the financing of the rural development plan. So the current government coalition will take EUR 70 million out of direct payments and the European Commission will decide to add EUR 6.9 million. Let it be said to everyone for the sake of clarity. With regard to the rural development plan, which has been highlighted here as one of the major development plans, funded per hectare, I would like to say that such a unit of measurement for the rural development plan per hectare is very strange and I dare say that it is ridiculous. Who knows the content of the rural development plan, it knows that there are Leader activities, most of which are not related at all to agriculture, agricultural land, farming or animal farming. Rural diversification measures are intended for non-agricultural operators. In the last period, 50% of all this money went to tourism. It is strange to measure investments in tourism farms, for example, with a financial allocation per hectare and it is regrettable that these units of measurement are presented in this form. I don't know how to read anything out of this, but to mislead the public. Next, rural co-financing is almost minimal, with the exception of some measures. I do not know whether the rural development plan in any other European Union country will be co-financed so little from its national budget as in Estonia. But in any case, the co-financing is smaller than our closest neighbours, who are our biggest and most immediate competitors in the internal market. This is considerably less than in Finland and Sweden, and also less than in Latvia and Lithuania. This is the situation with the financing of the rural development plan and direct payments, which will be opened following the adoption of today's draft law. One more comment. We are adopting this bill to open the financing of both direct payments and the rural development plan under the responsibility of the Estonian state and at the risk of rice. Some measures may later prove to be contrary to European law, as negotiations are ongoing and the rural development plan of the Republic of Estonia has not yet been approved by the European Commission. So if there is a situation where the European Commission later finds that one or the other measure already implemented in Estonia is contrary to European Union law, and when it comes to prohibited state aid, we must, of course, also take into account sanctions and this could lead to claims on the Estonian state. This was the message that was left out of the previous speaker's report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U136	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu for a chair of speech from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party Tarmo Tamme!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U137	Manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I, like my colleague, Seeder, had no intention of coming here. But now I heard this story, as if the EUR 6.9 million extra money from the European Union would save the Estonian dairy market and the Estonian dairy market. Friends, the same money was received by Lithuanians and Latvians. This inequality, which exists between us and Lithuania and Latvia, remains valid. I can tell you, dear colleague Kalvi, that this year Latvia has supported its farmers with an additional €50 million in circa. Next year they will have 32 million euros written into the coalition agreement. We are on one market, but the Estonian state has not been allocated money for it this year, nor has the budget for next year. How should an Estonian farmer compete in the common European agricultural market if the conditions of competition are completely different? There is no point in talking about European Union money, because compared to the European Union average, we will receive less support anyway. If I were a social democrat, I would be ashamed because the Social Democrats in the government have received no support whatsoever for either their minister or Estonian farmer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U138	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. We will begin the preparation of the final vote on draft 745. Dear colleagues, I will put draft 745 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. There are 67 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents or abstentions. Draft Act 745 on the implementation of the common agricultural policy of the European Union, initiated by the Government of the Republic, has been adopted as a law. The sixth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U139	Let's move on to item seven. The third reading of the draft Fisheries Market Organisation Act 744 initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No, we don't want to open negotiations. We can go to the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 744 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. All 67 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, no respondents and no abstentions. Draft Act 744 on the organisation of the fisheries market initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law. The seventh item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U140	Let's move on to item eight. Starting with the Government of the Republic... Lauri Luik, please! I understand you have a procedural question. Wait a minute! We're on the eighth item. This is the third reading of draft law 728 on the amendment of study grants and student loan law initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Lauri Luige, representative of the Estonian Reform Party Group, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U141	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the draft law is to help students who find it difficult to cope with their household's resources during their studies on an ad hoc basis. The need-based education allowance system is based on the student's economic needs and concerns only those students whose family's economic situation does not allow them access to higher education. Since the development of needs-based education support, we have stressed that the aim of the support is to support and encourage the acquisition of higher education for young people from families on a permanent basis with lower incomes. Applying for needs-based education allowance is currently based on the tax data of the family in the previous calendar year. However, the needs-based Special Support Fund created by the legislative amendment is intended for students whose income, according to the records, exceeded the upper limit of income at the time of applying for the need-based education allowance, but whose economic situation has unexpectedly deteriorated. A special allowance of EUR 135 can be applied for once per semester. Universities will process applications to the proposed Need-Based Special Support Fund because they have the most information and can ask for additional documents from students. It is important to mention that, like needs-based learning support, special student support is not included in income when determining income support. As a result of the legislative amendment, all full-time students who have completed at least 75% of the curriculum instead of 100% can apply for needs-based study support. We have chosen a more flexible approach because, according to studies, students face difficulties in completing the 100% curriculum that underpins the study grant. The main objective of needs-based learning support is to take account of the socio-economic situation of the student, which is why we will continue to require full-time learning, but we have decided to make the study volume requirement more flexible, reducing it from 100% to 75%. Our aim is to ensure that good students have the opportunity to obtain higher education in a way that does not hinder the economic situation. This is the objective of the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U142	Thank you. I ask for a speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, Liisa-Ly Pakosta!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U143	Good people! One of the major and longer-term decisions that we have taken in this Chamber during its membership concerns free higher education. Estonia, like the Nordic countries, moved to free higher education for one very simple reason: we need high-quality higher education, regardless of the economic livelihood of our families. The need-based education support system is part of the free higher education package to support this objective of high-quality higher education, regardless of the income of families. This draft, which has reached the third reading today, clarifies the individual details following the introduction of needs-based study grants. The need for adjustments in this system was already known at the time of the adoption of the Study Allowance Act, because for the first time in the history of the Republic of Estonia it was a systematic approach to need-based study grants. My colleague, Lauri Luik, has said the most important things. I'm gonna let myself have a fix, though. To date, universities have also paid special grants to students in distress. Universities have had this right to grant these grants themselves. The draft slightly clarifies this procedure and puts needs-based learning grants and specific needs-based grants in a better relationship. Yeah, in a better relationship, let's face it, from the state budget, not necessarily from the student. Yes, this draft also makes it more flexible to apply for needs-based study grants and in practice leads to a well-established situation in the law, which concerns this 75% requirement. Up until now, universities were entitled to apply this requirement, which universities used a lot. Now it's been brought into the bill. This is a good bill and I call on everyone to vote in favour of it. The Pro Patria and Res Publica Association also support this draft. However, on behalf of the opposition, one concern that was not mentioned by the previous speaker for obvious reasons cannot be overlooked. I look with concern at how little and how low-impact drafts have come from the Ministry of Education and Research, headed by Minister Ossinovski, to the Chamber of the Riigikogu. This draft, which in fact only deals with a few technical points, was also largely redrafted in the Committee on Culture. I admit that I enthusiastically welcomed Ossinovsky's position as Minister of Education, doing so publicly on the Internet. I was hoping the new fierce minister would do the things society has been waiting for so far, but what hasn't been done for many reasons. I admit it has been a total disappointment. Looking at today's date and the time remaining until the elections, I have little reason for optimism. Let us, of course, vote in favour of this draft. But if it is now the ceiling of Minister Ossinovski's powers, then it is very little. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U144	Thank you. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group Mart Meri!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U145	Ladies and gentlemen, It is a pleasure to note that the Estonian education support system will become more flexible, more social and thus better perform its main task of making it easier for young people who might otherwise be prevented from studying at the university due to their financial difficulties. The current system of study grants, adopted by the Riigikogu about two years ago, in December 2012, was undoubtedly a long step from the previous situation, but unfortunately this system also proved to be machinelike, creating problems precisely at the border between justice and justice. A clean machine system may be convenient for the production line operator, but if applied to people, sooner or later there will be failures. They arise precisely where there is a right, which does not apply and justice is not achieved, because automatic deviations do not recognise, no matter how innovative they are. Two years ago, we received relevant recommendations, warnings and suggestions from the Student Associations, but they did not shake the positions of the majority of Parliament at the time. It is now a pleasure to acknowledge that everything that we said in our opposition will happen. With the bill, the system is gaining more human dimension. This means nothing more than that, in exceptional circumstances, the need-based processing of applications for support will help to find a solution for human discretion, not for mechanical calculation. In the second reading of the draft, a respected colleague felt, for some reason, that these were relatively minor corrections. I don't agree with that. Let's look at the calculations. If the current system continues, around 3000 students will receive needs-based education support next year. If we put in place a special grant with this draft, 500 students would be added to the beneficiaries during the semester. After all, this means a significant increase in opportunities. With another significant change, a reduction in the required volume of studies, an estimated 700 additional applicants would be added next year. By 2018, students who would have a legitimate access to support through the draft would already be estimated at 2500. The estimate shows that the draft will increase the number of beneficiaries by more than a third by 2018. It is a smart, fair draft supporting university studies for many good young people, to which the Social Democrats are happy to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U146	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. We will begin the preparation of the final vote on the draft 728. I will put draft 728 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. There are 70 members of the Riigikogu, one against and no abstentions. Draft 728 of the Law amending the Law on study grants and student loans initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws has been adopted as a law. The eighth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U147	The ninth item is the third reading of the draft Act amending the Social Tax Act and the Health Insurance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. You can see how nicely it goes, 728 and 729. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No, we don't want to open negotiations. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 729 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. There are 73 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents or abstentions. The draft Act amending the Social Tax Act and the Health Insurance Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 729 has been adopted as a law. The ninth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U148	Dear colleagues, we have come to the tenth item on the agenda. Bill 730, second reading of the Draft State Budget Act 2015 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please present the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Finance Committee, Rannar Vassilyev.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U149	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I will give a brief overview of what has taken place in the meantime in the course of the procedure of this bill, which is marked by the order number 730 and the letters of the SE, i.e. the draft State Budget Act for 2015, compared to the time when this bill was discussed at first reading, which took place in plenary on 22 October, I think. At that time, the deadline for submitting amendments was 5 November at 5.15 p.m. I will give a brief overview of the amendments that have arrived in the second half of my report. The Commission discussed the draft State Budget Act on 3, 4, 10, 11 and 13 November. All ministers have now been heard during the procedure of the draft State Budget Act. Theoretically, the members of the Riigikogu who were not members of the Monetary Committee, but who were interested in the subject and whose own schedule of the main committee would have allowed us to attend our meetings, had the opportunity to ask the ministers questions. I admit that there were no such members of the Riigikogu. So no one else in the Riigikogu has participated in the meetings of our committee except the members of the Finance Committee. I gave an overview of the majority of ministers in the Commission at first reading, as they had already been before the Committee on Monetary Affairs by then. In the period following the first reading, we have had three ministers before us: Urve Palo, Minister of Economy and Infrastructure, Urmas Kruuse, Minister of Health and Labour, and Anne Sulling, Minister of Foreign Trade and Entrepreneurship. The Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure was before us on 3 November. A number of topics were discussed at this meeting, while rail funding was discussed at length. The situation of Estonian Air was also discussed, as was the situation in ferry traffic and infrastructure projects, including road financing. While Urmas Kruuse was on our committee, the main issues were subsistence benefits, a reduction in unemployment insurance contributions, as well as cancer prevention, medical pay agreements and the future of family medicine centres in relation to European Union funds. Anne Sulling, Minister of Foreign Trade and Entrepreneurship, was discussed about KredEx and EAS subsidies. In addition to the non-refundable aid, this was about the emergence and use of financial instruments in the next financial period, as well as the funding of research and development centres, for example, and Estonia's participation in Expo. In addition to ministers, Deputy Governor Madis Müller has also met with us to discuss this topic, namely on 3 November. On 13 November we had a meeting with representatives of local government associations. Two main issues were discussed: the revenue base of local governments and the development of compensation mechanisms for the loss of special-marked fuel. On 11 November, the Committee on Monetary Affairs received an overview of the state of the national reserves. Now I will briefly talk about the amendments. By the deadline for submitting amendments, 5 November, the members of the Riigikogu and the political groups submitted a total of 23 amendments to the draft. The explanations of the amendments are set out in the list of amendments which the drafters referred to as one or the other. The Finance Committee itself drew up one proposal, which mainly provided for technical changes within the remit of several ministries, also clarified the textual paragraphs. The Commission's amendment has been drawn up on the basis of additional information from ministries and specific explanations have been included in each amendment clause in the list of amendments. Most of these changes, as I mentioned, are technical; many are involved in bringing the salaries of ministries to the right line. It is likely that the exact increase will not be clear until recent government meetings and some ministries, where these salary increases are on different budget lines, may not be able to raise the correct number of budget in the right line at the time of submission. This has been a normal practice, which was confirmed this year. One perhaps more important and substantive amendment, which was included in the Commission's amendments, is the channelling of additional funds to the national borders, which is almost EUR 2 million in total. I will talk briefly about the amendments received from the political groups and members of the Riigikogu. As I mentioned, they are available to everyone and their justifications are equally available. Unfortunately, none of these proposals were supported by the majority of the Commission. In general, the causes were in the sources of cover. The cover was provided for the reserve of the Government of the Republic. However, according to the Ministry of Finance, there are planned expenditures that make this picture slightly different from what it seems at first glance. It is intended to provide reimbursements to the European Union, to finance the IT agency through the RKAS, for example, to finance the acquisition by the Ministry of the Interior of trucks and the cost of winter navigation. Therefore, the real reserve, which would remain so-called unforeseen costs, is significantly lower than the amount reported in the state budget on the reserve line. It was also envisaged as a source of cover that a reduction in the rate of income tax could be avoided. It is known that the income tax rate will fall from 21% to 20% in 2015. The decision itself was taken a long time ago, in 2011, but will enter into force next year. One of the reasons why this exclusion was critical is that in reality less than two months have elapsed since the rate of income tax was reduced, so that the time perspective would probably not be very reasonable in order to bring tax back to 21%. Although, what we are denying here in the Commission, we were given historical examples when tax rates have been raised even faster, actually in the middle of the financial year. Now the Commission's procedural decisions and proposals. The Committee on Finance's proposal is to conclude the second reading of the draft (with 6 Commission members in favour, 1 against and no abstentions). The Committee on Monetary Affairs proposed that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 27 November. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U150	Thank you. You have a lot of questions. Let's get to the questions. Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U151	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, My question concerns the penultimate paragraph of your report, namely that revenue tax will fall by 1% from next year and the budget will then be close to EUR 70 million. Has this EUR 70 million out of the budget not in any way affected the budgetary position, all areas have received enough money in the budget, and this EUR 70 million can be freely abandoned? Or would it, however, have been more reasonable to leave this EUR 70 million budget in order to finance very important areas?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U152	Thank you. The reduction in the income tax rate will undoubtedly affect the budgetary position, the order of magnitude here is indeed 70 million euros and even a little bit more than millions. In this sense, he certainly has influence. Is there anything else you could have done with that money? Theoretically, yes, I could have. I do not know whether a good colleague asked for my personal opinion or not, but I can still publish it here. I myself believe that doing something else with this EUR 75 million could be much more justified. We will remain in the same area and look at labour taxes. There's been a lot of discussion on this subject lately. If we compare ourselves with the other countries of the European Union, we will see that we actually have high labour taxes on the low-paid. The tax wedge, which measures the ratio of the tax rate to total labour costs, is below the European average for average wages. But, for example, with two thirds of the average wage, we are already above the European average, ahead of Finland, Denmark and many other countries. If we stick to labour taxes now, it seems to me, personally, more sympathetic to increase the tax-free minimum, for example, which also increased by EUR 10 in this budget, but this EUR 70 and a little more EUR million could have increased it quite a bit. But that's the price of a coalition contract. It must also be acknowledged that this is not a law adopted this year. It is recalled that the previous coalition decided to reduce the rate of income tax in 2015 at the beginning of the same term, i.e. in spring 2011. The coalition that saw the light of day this spring did not reverse the decision made at that time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U153	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U154	Thank you, Mr President. Good Commission waitress! Please help those people who are interested in the state of private education by following this debate! Where can we find EUR 6.3 million, which next year will have to be found for private schools anyway? Does this money come through local government, which, as the Supreme Court said, must be compensated for by the local government, or is it a line in the state budget of the Ministry of Education, on the basis of which the Ministry of Education and Research supports private education through direct contracts? There are certainly those who are concerned that if this 6.3 million euros is not available next year, the sufferer will be a child in the whole structure, because private schools have made their plans before the Supreme Court's decision. Where can we find this line and what has the Commission decided here?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U155	Thank you. This issue has not been discussed in the Commission, but we are probably dealing with it between second and third readings. The subject is certainly topical. It can be assumed that the obligations must be fulfilled, although I understand that the exact amount has not yet come in the form of a judgment at least on Tallinn. But the Constitutional Review College has made a fundamental decision. This means that at least EUR 6 million will really have to be found next year. In the interests of the truth, it must be said here that it may be added to the costs of the state budget resulting from the judgments, which means compensating for the loss of income previously suffered. So, yeah, that's gonna come up. I was in contact with the Minister of Education and Research on this subject today. In cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Education has received a proposal with which they address us. Hopefully it will be possible to resolve this problem in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U156	Juhan Parts, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U157	Thank you. Dear waitress, Between the first and second readings, there was a very fundamental new information. The European Commission, as an independent evaluator, says that the government has bluffed a budget position of EUR 300 million. The government has commented on this in such a way that the European Commission is wrong. Given that, apart from the government, only the European Commission can perhaps be a serious judge of the budgetary position, I think it is such a serious difference that the credibility of all public finances is actually being hit. In the period between the first and second readings, when this information came, did the Commission become clear, which is still the reason for this huge difference? I know there was talk of GDP gaps and so on. We consider it necessary, before we go ahead with the budget, to eliminate this misunderstanding or these differences.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U158	Thank you. In fact, this did not come as a surprise to those members of the Commission who had examined the explanatory statement on the state budget. Since this topic has been up, I have found the right page during the question. On page 15 of the explanatory memorandum to the state budget, this issue is well reflected. So this topic is not new in Estonia, it is not new even in the sense that it is not the subject of this year. The history of this theme dates back to 2009 and 2010, i.e. to the so-called fluctuating years. The reason is that the Commission assesses our GDP gap differently, which, in a simplified way, means the difference between potential GDP and real GDP, and which is an important component in the calculation of the structural balance. As far as Estonia is concerned, I am simply saying that it is adjusted and the coefficient for which this gap is levelled is 0.44. That is one important reason. If we go a little deeper into this issue, the difference lies first and foremost in our assessment of the situation on the labour market. In simple terms, the European Commission is saying that our current employment, including unemployment, is so-called in line with our potential GDP. This is mainly because wage increases have been relatively rapid in Estonia in recent years. Our argument, in fact, the statement of the Ministry of Finance, and the statement of Eesti Pank, and the IMF and the OECD, also agree with us, is that it is not correct to look at the matter in such a simplified way, because our wage growth is being driven by the external environment. Above all, this is the reason for our northern neighbours. Here comes the 'economic calculation gap', which concerns GDP and, consequently, the exact cycle in which we are in. But the subject itself is old. According to the assessment of the Ministry of Finance, the budget is in a structural surplus of 0.8%, as estimated by the European Commission. On the basis of the European Commission's assessment, the deficit was even higher in 2013. I am now going to say a number that I think was. 1. Well, that's a question of interpretation, isn't it? The European Commission has not approached us in any way to correct its position. The move is also taking place, in our sense, towards increasing the surplus, but in the context of the European Commission, towards reducing the deficit. So there's no real reason for any news and great drama in itself. In addition, I note that the gap, in addition to this GDP gap, also concerns one-off costs. Indeed, as we know, we compensate for the payments made to the pension pillar to those who continued to pay even when the state suspended their contributions to the second pillar. Interestingly, when we stopped these payments, it was considered a 'one time, last time' measure, which was not taken into account, but now that we have restored this payment, it is no longer considered a one-off measure. Once again, it was previously considered a one-off relief and it did not go into the calculation of the structural balance, but it is now. Here we also have a clear point of debate with the European Commission. These issues can be discussed and debated with the Commission, but there is no indication that we should make corrections. I think that 300 million euros can theoretically be calculated there, but the underlying reason is somewhere else.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U159	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U160	Thank you, Mr President. I will continue on the same subject as the previous questioner asked. This situation reminds me a little of a student who comes from a mathematics exam and tells me at home tonight that he feels like he got a four. The next day the teacher says no, he still got two. And then they start arguing if he got four or two, but eventually the teacher's two stays in force. I'm coming back to the budget now. Looking at the comments made by the Estonian Fiscal Council on the same 15th page of the explanatory memorandum, we see the Council's concern that there is a high risk that the Estonian government has overestimated its position in the structural budget. I am more interested in what is used as the basis for Estonia's individualisations and where the individualisations of the European Commission are based. Why should the European Commission even do some sort of work, analysis and some sort of outcome if we finally say that it does not matter, because we are right?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U161	Thank you. There is a very clear reason for the European Commission to have its own methodology and to apply it. I think that's very reasonable. If all the countries were to do these calculations on their own, then, I'm afraid, there could be quite a lot of embellishment. I am not going to say at this point in which regions this could be expected more, but certainly the picture could be quite written in the European Union. In itself, it is undoubtedly necessary for the European Commission to make its assessment. The fact that we have a different opinion from that of the European Commission is not just about the budget or the structural balance. We have a lot of places where we argue about nuances. I think it's a perfectly normal process. As a member of the Riigikogu, I, who am not the author of the calculations of budgetary positions, could be quite critical of the methodology of the Committee on Monetary Affairs if no one else would support it. But we looked at all the institutions that have assessed this position, rather, they have assessed the GDP gap first and foremost. The European Commission, the IMF and the OECD are, in my view, sufficiently respected institutions, and the European Commission is the only one to interpret it in this way. I do not see a problem when the assessment of structural balance is different. I believe that, at some point, the economic cycle itself will become such that this issue, which has been up since 2009 and 2010, will finally find its natural solution and its estimates for this budget cycle will converge. So I don't see a big problem here. In fact, the European Commission does not see the problem either, because it has not made any comments to us that we should begin to correct our position in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U162	Vladimir Velman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U163	Thank you very much, Mr President. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. In your speech, you said that, unfortunately, the amendments that came from the opposition were not supported because the sources of cover were not suitable. In this hall, it is customary for an older brother, or coalition, to present his position to a younger brother. Would you be so good as to give an example of what would be the source of protection that would suit the Committee on Monetary Affairs and what would it accept?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U164	Thank you. In this sense, it is difficult for me to say that I should answer on behalf of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which means that for very many people. Since we have not discussed it in this form and voted any less, I cannot do it. My personal assessment, which I have also expressed here, is that, in my view, in the event of a longer advance notification, the opt-out from 21% to 20% of the tax rate could in itself be a reasonable source of cover. I am not hiding it at all because it is entirely public information that the Social Democrats have supported this idea in the past. Although we have not been able to use it as a source of cover in the past, because'real costs' will occur in 2015, but we have raised this issue in this Chamber. I do not think that it is a reasonable way to lower labour taxes from 20% to 20%, because I do not think that this is the main problem for Estonia. Especially in view of what is happening in Europe at large, because we, with our uniform rate of income tax, will certainly be among the countries with a high level of income taxing less in terms of income tax.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U165	Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U166	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, When I look at the list of amendments that are here, I see that many of the changes are due to technical changes, clarifications, correction of errors, etc. Can it be concluded that the government failed to prepare the state budget, that the documents submitted to the Riigikogu are incomplete and that they have not been properly worked in the first round?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U167	Thank you. I wouldn't make that kind of assessment. The Riigikogu and the Committee on Monetary Affairs in particular, of course, would like technical changes not to come or the number of them to be 50, for example, but to be few. Certainly, all of this gives some assessment of the work, but I would not say that the government was quite in trouble, because in fact, the budget is a rather comprehensive document, and such clarifications still tend to come up. One reason is that disputes about exactly how much the wage fund in one area or another is increasing are held until the last government meetings. It is quite difficult for ministries to calculate this salary increase accurately, depending on where on the line these preferred employees are then teachers, cultural workers, rescue workers or police officers are written on them. It can be quite difficult to do so quickly. So these clarifications tend to come up. Of course, the Committee on Monetary Affairs would like these improvements to be kept to a minimum.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U168	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U169	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U170	Deputy, yes, of course. But as I said last time, the future is bright. Here's the question. The reserves of the sickness fund and the unemployment fund have also been consolidated with the state budget. It was done a few years ago and in a lot of trouble. If those reserves weren't there, what if a big hole was yawning in the state budget right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U171	I'm sure we'll welcome him.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U172	Thank you. The fact that these reserves are managed by the Treasury does not really make the budget hole bigger or smaller, because regardless of the exact way in which these assets are carried out or, rather, who coordinates this exercise, they would in any case be in the 'balance' of the government sector and would not increase or reduce the accounts. If I say so by heart, I think my memory has a positive impact on the unemployment fund and the health insurance fund for a total of EUR 29 million. The budget of the Health Insurance Fund should be balanced and the unemployment fund in its slight surplus, if I am not mistaken now. In other words, this impact is actually not very great; in previous years it has been greater. One reason why the impact has decreased is also the reduction in unemployment insurance to 2.4%. I think it's a pretty reasonable change made by the spring coalition. Unemployment insurance could, by nature, be in line with the expenditure of the unemployment fund, provided that sufficient reserves have been gathered there to survive the years of crisis, as is currently the case. I think that might continue to be the case. This payment is called unemployment insurance contributions, not, for example, additional income tax or social tax, precisely because this rate depends on the expected costs of the unemployment fund and is decided not only by the government and the Riigikogu, but also by employers and employees together with the government. This positive impact is significantly lower than in previous years and does not affect the big picture.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U173	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U174	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Speaker, I have a question that I have already heard from the previous Minister for Finance, but I also want to know your opinion. The question concerns the form of drawing up the budget, i.e. how the budget is put together, how the lines are combined, what the explanatory memorandum and other things are. I must admit that years ago, it was much easier to monitor and read the budget. Every citizen who opened the budget received an answer to his question. The current form of the budget is extremely complex. The previous minister claimed that the budget was not bellerristic; it had to be read. But what do you think about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U175	Thank you. Regardless of how it is accurately formalised, we are unlikely to reach the point that all those who open the budget have the ability to access this material. You may be able to get acquainted, but understanding of everything is likely to remain somewhat complicated in any case, no matter how accurately you make the budget. There has been a great deal of talk here about the progress made in making the state budget and its implementation report comparable, which are now better monitored. As far as I know, the Ministry of Finance is open to suggestions on how to improve the state budget and also the report. It also depends a little on the form in which people with budgets are accustomed, because budgets tend to vary quite differently in different areas and institutions. When I came here in 2011, the form of the budget and the approach to the budget here were certainly different from what I had seen in Rakvere for five years. Well, it's a habit thing, isn't it? It's a little cognitive how well-observed or unobserved the budget is. But I think all the proposals that improve it are welcome in any case. While dealing with the budgets that have arisen, I do feel that perhaps in the explanatory memorandum, at least in its electronic form, there could be more references to the materials used. There are some here, but I think there's a lot to go on from here. This budget preparation in the so-called table format does not change much in principle either, but I think it would perhaps, above all, make it easier to understand the issues that tend to recur year after year. Maybe we could work on the explanatory statement in the future. It can really be too paper-based now, and today it can be made more readable electronically.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U176	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U177	Thank you, Vice President of the Riigikogu. Mr President of the Commission. How can it be that the Socialists have the seat of the Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the Chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs and the Minister for Agriculture, but you have not supported a farmer with any euro? You have not found a single euro for the top-up, although these subsidies would help our farmer to cope with market competition in any way. I don't know if you've done some kind of analysis, or if you're familiar with the situation that this could all end in spring next year. But I think it's criminal to say that there's no money to make money look like it's missing. Yesterday I read the news that an additional EUR 12 million was found for Estonian Air. It's more of a question of will. Why don't you want to support the farmers?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U178	Thank you. I'll start from the back, from Estonian Air. In the context of the state budget, these are 'different expenditures'. Unfortunately, one is a financing transaction that does not enter into the budget balance calculation. The other one's a normal expense. Such expenditure includes, for example, investments such as road funding and even the construction of school buildings, which are also taken into account in the balance of the state budget. In the context of the state budget, in the context of public finances, it is not possible to take EUR 12 million out of the money that goes to Estonian Air and to give it to farmers, although it could be completely real in the private sector. This would not actually be possible in local governments, because one is, as I mentioned, a financing transaction where money is essentially converted into share capital, and the other is simply a cost. However, as far as this topic is concerned more generally, I am saddened to say that if my memory does not deceive me, neither has the Centre Party found the money for this in its amendments. Or am I wrong now? [[Interjection.]] I know that IRL certainly had such an amendment. I apologise if the Centre Party had such an amendment. But in general, yes, the top-up disappeared in the 2014 budget and has not been restored in 2015. Once again, I'm sorry if I missed your proposal. I know that one amendment was really tabled on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U179	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U180	Thank you. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. A while ago, we learned that the Secretary of Defense signed a contract for the purchase of the anti-tank system. Let's be honest, it's not small money. But it seems to me that no Riigikogu commission has discussed this agreement. If I'm wrong, I'm sorry. But can you tell me how much in next year's budget the Ministry of Defense can buy military equipment or weapons?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U181	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U182	Thank you. I don't remember the amount of specific investments. In total, defence expenditure is 2.05% of GDP, which is EUR 418 million, if I am not mistaken. In the context of NATO, we will have defence spending for over EUR 400 million next year. This is the largest amount in history, and also the highest percentage of GDP. Why is this important in the context of NATO? In other countries, budget defence expenditure may not meet NATO standards, but we have them in one accord. So this amount comes together and is used to cover both investments and other operating costs related to defence expenditure. In my head, I dare not say the amount of investment, I could look for it in the budget, but it will probably take quite a while. How it is divided is primarily up to the Ministry. We have not discussed this directly.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U183	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Mr President of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. This morning, on the ERR news, I heard you rejoice that additional resources have been found and allocated to fix the border. If I remember correctly, in the meantime, the media argued that the previous Minister for the Interior made this proposal during the preparation of the budget, but somehow the Minister for Finance, who is your current and former coalition partner, did not consider it necessary to support it. What's the reason for this at the last minute? Secondly, you indicated that this would be done at the expense of the police's reserves and the non-purchase of conservation land, which is worth a million euros. The director of the Police and Border Guard Board spoke last week about how difficult their situation was. How do the police authorities find these amounts?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U184	Thank you. As regards whether or not the previous Minister of the Interior made such a proposal at government meetings, since I did not have the opportunity to attend these meetings, I cannot comment on this statement. I saw the face of the former Minister of Finance who expressed a rather critical emotion on it. I can't tell if this is true or not true. I can talk about what ended up in the budget. What we are doing today must be acknowledged is to compensate for the work that has not been done in the past. What's to deny is probably could have been found earlier. But really, the extra resources are now being found. The EUR 1 million comes from a reduction in the buy-back of protected land. The budget was set at EUR 5 million and now there is EUR 4 million left. Another almost one million euros, or more than 900000 euros, must not be the police, but it would be correct to say, the administration of the Ministry of the Interior, and not the reserves, because no administrative area can collect reserves in this form in terms of the state budget. All reserves are uniform national reserves.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U185	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U186	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In your report, you did not, for some reason, address my amendments and the source of their cover. I ask you to comment on them! The source of the cover was the money allocated to the parties. These proposals were not supported by the Commission by the votes of 0 to 0. Can you explain afterwards what happened to the members of the committee? How do you comment on the assumption that the political groups were not allowed to vote on these amendments at all? What is your personal position as Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs? Please don't tell me you don't have a personal position.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U187	Thank you. What I can certainly say is that not all political groups are banned from taking part in this vote because, being a member of one of them, i.e. of the Social Democratic Party Group, I have to admit that this issue was not discussed in our group. So the way the Members of the Commission voted must at least have been spontaneous in the case of members of our group. For some reason, it seemed to me that it tended to be this way for members of other political groups as well. I guess they didn't think it was proper or necessary to vote either for or against. As far as the money allocated to political parties is concerned, it has been exactly the same, as I recall, for about seven years, and has not been increased or reduced. I guess the majority of the Commission felt that reducing it was not sufficiently justified. There were also questions about some of the proposals to finance something else about this money. For example, the Defence League had in fact been allocated quite large amounts in addition to the state budget. So there was a question of whether this would be a reasonable place to put extra money in. But what to deny here was certainly also those places where the cause would have been in itself, say, more accessible or could have been more likely to be found than in the case of the Defence League, for example. But that is the way the vote went. I looked it up because I remembered that this was the result of the vote before. Indeed, if I remember correctly, there was a vote in the spring where there were also no votes in favour or against. This vote took place during the discussion of the Estonian Cultural Endowment Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U188	Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U189	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You brought out a lot of positive information about this bill, but one important thing has been overlooked. This draft could also be called a draft of fraud. Already some time ago, the Riigikogu passed a law that provided mothers with an additional pension, namely the supplement to the parental pension. The current state budget confirms that it will be taken away from an average family that should have received an additional pension of EUR 120 next year. How do you comment on such treachery? In 2012, when this law was passed, this money was also planned in the country's budget strategy, and at the beginning of the summer this law was amended and the government put the hand in the pensioners' pockets. How do you like that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U190	Thank you. In fact, this topic was discussed in spring. If I am wrong now, I am sorry, but I believe that this law was passed even in 2011, but it did enter into force in 2012. But that is probably not the most important thing on this subject. I can say that I was surprised when the IRL Group did not come up with a proposal to bring this supplementary pension back to 2015. I guess all the political groups stated that the budget did not allow us to find a source of cover, I say, more than EUR 20 million a year. In any case, the sum of EUR 20 million was the same. It seems that the enforcement of the supplementary pension in 2015 is beyond what we are financially capable of.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U191	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U192	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! As we know, we have had disagreements with the European Commission when assessing the structural balance of the budget. You have been a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs for a long time and you will probably remember that this disagreement has been there for years, even if your predecessor was from the IRL Group. This discrepancy between our opinions and those of the European Commission has always been one-way. So what's going on with the structural balance assessment this year? Has the European Commission found any substantive problems or things in our budget plan that we need to redefine? He's not gonna send our budget plan back, is he?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U193	Thank you. No, he won't send it back. There's nothing new going on. There's a tendency to lose track of time up ahead. I can't tell you exactly why, but a couple of, uh, thirty minutes ago, I stopped at this thing for a while. I'll try to make it a little shorter this time. It is a question of the GDP gap and, above all, of the assessment of the state of our labour market whether or not our employment, including unemployment, is in line with our potential GDP. That has been the first question. In addition, one-off measures have been included, whether or not the money added to the second pillar of the pension is a one-off measure or not, broadly speaking, the content of this debate. Yes, the subject is old, already in 2009 and 2010 it began to be interpreted differently. In the past, the structural balance, which is important as an indicator, was not mandatory for the euro area countries in the context of the budget; it has now become mandatory. The European Commission has not given us any precept that we should change anything, even less so, it has rejected this budget. So there's nothing wrong, there's nothing new here. As I mentioned, I believe that this economic cycle will probably eventually resolve this dispute itself. Its correction is not currently required in one way or the other.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U194	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U195	Thank you, Madam President. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. In 2009, the Government of the Republic shaved local government budgets, and at that time it was promised that as soon as the crisis ended, this revenue base would be restored. There are now two options: whether the crisis continues and the economy is declining or whether all Estonian municipalities were deceived in 2009. I have watched for years how the Social Democrats in the Committee on Monetary Affairs have supported the efforts of the local authorities' associations to restore this revenue base, but now suddenly you have come up with a budget that will continue the same policy that has been in previous years. How does that add up?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U196	Thank you. Let's just say that this cut was very painful for the municipalities that year. I remember it very well myself. I was then responsible for the budget of the city of Rakvere and this was not at all pleasant news, especially in the middle of the financial year. The restoration of this revenue base is certainly an important issue, but it seems to me that the bigger problem is now with the Equalisation Fund, which has increased, but from around EUR 72 million to just EUR 75 million. I hope I wasn't wrong about the millions, 75-76 million should be this year. We don't actually see the slope there. Even if this percentage has risen, it is correct to say that it has risen to compensate for the reduction in the tax on the land under home, and not to supplement it. In fact, the nominal amount of money that comes with the tax rate has still increased considerably. At present, there should be EUR 830.860 million, which is expected to be received by municipalities. There's been this rise, but there hasn't been a substantial increase in the fine-tuning fund. It has to be acknowledged that the budget for next year did not fit into this issue. It is certainly one of the things that we, the socialists, have failed to do in this coalition in one year; the income base of local governments is one of the first issues in this series. Unfortunately, there are still problems that could not be resolved in one year. I believe that the opportunity to correct in the future will have to be corrected. I think that the adjustment of the municipal income base will actually take place when their functions are reviewed and we are going to decide how we should have a self-governing level in the future. This is, to say the least, an administrative-territorial reform. If it takes some time, it is likely that some adjustments will have to be made to the municipal income base. My personal assessment is that I would rather start by increasing the fine-tuning fund rather than raising the rate of income of a natural person to the local authority, because the Equalisation Fund is primarily helping those municipalities who are in more trouble and whose situation is more complicated.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U197	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U198	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, first of all, thank you for your meaningful and comprehensive answer to my first question. The result of this so-called money out of the budget is probably what I see in this explanatory memorandum, that EAS has been allocated just over 10 million euros, or over 13% less, despite EAS' quite important activities in increasing the competitiveness of Estonian companies in foreign markets and so on. Has entrepreneurship no longer been considered particularly important in this budget, with its support being reduced? Can this not result in an even clearer slowdown in our economic growth?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U199	Thank you. As far as EAS is concerned, in the context of the next financial perspective, it makes sense to look at it in a more complex and partial way with KredEx, because some measures, such as financial instruments that encourage loan guarantees, and financing the creation of a fund of funds, which should also finance growth companies, have been moved under KredEx. So EAS alone doesn't give a very good picture. Foreign aid money will fall next year, but the country's own contribution will not actually decrease. The state itself has not decided to reduce anything. Rather, it is a question of implementing external instruments next year. For EAS, as for other implementing agencies, this means that 2014/2020. The 2008 period is only at an early stage, in fact, that some of the measures that will be implemented in 2015, for example in the first quarter, may not reach disbursements in 2015, despite the best wishes. This decrease is therefore partly due to this in the following year.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U200	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U201	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! Looking at the list of amendments and the tables presented by the Government and the Ministries of the Republic, this is what stands out. Almost all the lines related to the cost of using experts in the draft have suddenly been zeroed. There's no money available for the experts. Do the Government and ministries of the Republic really not need any more expert help that is not foreseen at all? Why did this strange change occur between the first reading and the second reading?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U202	Thank you. The involvement of experts in ministries will certainly continue to be important. Rather, it is not so much the content of the change as the form. The budget lines from which these expenditures are made have simply been adjusted. I believe the experts will still be involved. No such decision is taken that experts will no longer be involved, no action has been taken anywhere, and no ministry has brought it out. So I can't confirm that the ministries are going to appreciate the expertise any less now.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U203	Thank you. Please, Ene Ergma!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U204	Thank you very much. Good colleague! You must have been very familiar with the draft budget for 2015. My question is simple enough. Can you find a part of this budget, not even a very large one, which is intended to implement future strategic goals that could help to revive the Estonian economy?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U205	Thank you. There are certainly a lot of forward-looking nuances here; they vary between different areas. There's research and development that gets its share of it. However, it is in the context of the European Union's money that, next year, the implementation of some things will certainly not return to the level it will have in the medium term in the coming years. But that's where they're going. Above all, EAS and KredEx have been invited to do business development. Indirectly, health and education are also areas for economic growth in the long term. There are certainly plenty of these parts in this budget. I'd probably do too many of them that wouldn't be mentioned.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U206	Thank you. Please, Sven Sester, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U207	Thank you, Mr President. I listened to the answer to the previous question. It's not that you shouldn't hurt anyone, but vice versa, in fact, you should bring out one, two, or three things. Unfortunately, the problem is that you don't really have a big picture and a narrative. I would also like to make a point of doing something earlier, although, unfortunately, Aivar Sõerd is not in the Chamber at the moment. In time, it has changed that we have in the meantime adopted the basic law and set ourselves a point of structural balance that we did not have in previous years. But I come to what Kaia Iva asked about, namely the parental pension. We have just processed the Central Party bill, which provides for an increase in income tax from 20% to 21%. I certainly would not agree with this, but the government said that this is contrary to the principle of legal expectation. My question to you about this budget is as follows. Do you understand at what point there is a contradiction with legal expectations and at what point there is not? In the case of parental pensions, for example, this was not a contradiction.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U208	Thank you. As far as this big narrative is concerned, no doubt, if we were to say this narrative in any way, that our priority is social or health, it could be said or not, but the reality is that if we tried to make one area a priority in one year, it would inevitably mean that something would be taken away from someone. So this should be a decision with a very clear aim. So far, no budget has acted like this so far that one year has led to a significant change in the share of one or the other sector in GDP. However, I welcome the social and health sectors that have just been mentioned, as their share of GDP is increasing. Why is that important? If we try to put ourselves in the context of the European Union again, these are areas that we are clearly underfunded from our budget compared to others. In other areas, it is more or less balanced, for example, in education, which does not mean that there should be no further contribution, but social and health are clearly below the EU average. The share of GDP in these areas is increasing with this budget. In the meantime, the basic law has really been passed and it lays down rules for us, based on our approach to GDP, which, as I mentioned, is the same as the IMF, the OECD and Eesti Pank. We have therefore presented this state budget. As I mentioned, this requirement of balance applies not only to Estonia but, in fact, to all the countries of the euro area. This is one of the reasons why we were somewhat harsher in law than we promised, so we insisted on a real balance. We did this primarily because the structural balance can leave room for an 'economic calculation'. We wanted to reduce this problem as much as possible in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U209	Thank you. Please, Siret Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U210	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! I come back to Estonian agriculture. I hope you have heard that there is a crisis in Estonian agriculture and that is what farmers are talking about. The Centre Party proposed an amendment to support farmers with EUR 23 million. Why do the Social Democrats, together with their Minister for Agriculture, not support farmers and have not been able to find additional support for farmers, just as our neighbouring countries do?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U211	Thank you. Yes, there are difficult times in the agricultural sector. It has already been mentioned here today that the dairy sector will certainly benefit from this EUR 7 million extra money, which the European Union will allocate to us precisely to alleviate the crisis of export restrictions to the east. However, as regards the so-called 'additional' payments for farmers, I must say that the source of cover offered by the Centre Party would probably seem particularly reasonable if the notice period had been longer. Personally, it makes sense to me in principle, but once again I say that it is the cost of going to or staying in a coalition for me and the Socialists, if that is, of course, the right word. However, to assume that it would be possible to say in this coalition agreement that we will increase the tax-free rate next year, which this amendment would actually mean, then, as this law has been passed, unfortunately, because of the ideology of this coalition, it is not possible. However, I am not making it a secret that, in my opinion, a reduction in the rate of income tax is not the most sensible way to actually use this EUR 75 million. Now I also remembered what I had in answer to the previous question, when I answered Sven Sester, I forgot. All I remembered was that there were three points in the question, but I could only remember two when I answered. Now the third one came to mind, which was about legitimate expectations. There is certainly a difference between the length of this period and the reasonable expectation. Is six months a reasonable period? I think it might be more or less reasonable. This is also the case with tax changes. When we talk about tax increases, it could be more or less a reasonable period. At the same time, in certain areas, which mean fundamental restructuring, the period of notice of changes could be longer. However, if we are talking about a period of notice of less than two months, it is certainly too short. This question of legitimate expectations is not cognitive and, in the case of disputes, the solution is certainly legal.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U212	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U213	Thank you. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. We discussed amendments in quite a number of sittings in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I can say that, if the Ministry of Finance had opposed some of the proposals, the majority of the Commission, which was formed by the Reform Party and the Soviets, also voted down this amendment. The representative of the Ministry of Finance was such a nice official who was still trying to find some substantive justification for all the amendments, which is why we should oppose it, so as not to point out as the only reason that the proposer is wrong. I am asking about the amendment by the Centre Party, which we wanted to introduce free travel on the county lines. In fact, last year, the ticket revenue on the regional routes was EUR 11.8 million. We proposed to find EUR 13 million next year, which could also cover the likely increase in the number of passengers if the route was free of charge. Please try to explain to the official why this cannot be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U214	Thank you. If I remember correctly, this amendment was also covered by a reduction in income tax. I'm sure one of the reasons for objecting was the source of cover. Secondly, the Commission pointed out that it would certainly change the picture if the regional routes could be operated free of charge, even a little more, because the price of the tickets would be maintained on routes crossing the county borders. Such bus routes are not subsidised, train routes are subsidised, but in both cases the ticket has to be paid. I'm sure the picture would get a lot messier. Is that why you can't lose tickets by increasing the dose from the county lines? I don't think technically, but personally, a larger-image solution would seem more sympathetic to me. This was partly referred to by an official of the Ministry of Finance at the meeting of the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U215	Okay, I was just saying, because I think the waitress was here right now...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U216	...withdrawal of humiliation. Income tax increases when the rate of income tax is high.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U217	Oh, the tax rate, not the tax rate.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U218	The source of the cover is the rate of income tax...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U219	Maybe. Thanks for the clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U220	...a glitch. Lauri Laasi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U221	Thank you. For the sake of the stenogram, I will specify whether the source of the cover is a reduction or an increase in income tax.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U222	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! Next year, the State plans to increase dividend income by 11.6%, i.e. a total of EUR 58,24 million. Can you explain which companies are then, where such a dividend is expected to come from, and is this feasible for companies in terms of their sustainability?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U223	Yeah, I'm sure it's manageable. I mean, a dividend that doesn't exist can't be taken out or, actually, what doesn't happen can't be taken out. This picture of which companies will receive the dividend is, you can say, quite written. The majority of the money is provided here by the Port of Tallinn and AS Elering, one 30 million euros, the other 20 million euros, but also, for example, by Air Traffic Services AS, 4.2 million euros. The dividend of Air Traffic Services AS is actually the same as in the past. Less dividends will be taken from the Port of Tallinn than has been taken in previous years, and for example from Eesti Energia, where the dividend was taken from last year, there will be no dividend next year. The main difference is due to the EUR 20 million to be taken from AS Elering. It is generally the case that, in order not to become a so-called "superdividend', a dividend is regarded as a one-off income, it must not exceed the average dividend for the previous three years. In addition, there is a limit related to the volume of GDP. If this is done, the budgetary balance will no longer be improved, but will become a 'one time, last time' transaction and get out of balance. At present, the dividend distribution plan for state-owned enterprises is fully in line with these principles and there are no problems. The increase is not very marked. If we recall 2013 for example, almost EUR 130 million or at least this size of dividends were withdrawn. It was essentially a little over two times more than planned next year. So a large year of dividend payment was actually 2013 when it was in volume over the next few years, you could even say, in some respects disproportionately large. But then Eesti Energia also contributed, which is not this year and next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U224	Please, Viktor Vassilyev, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U225	Thank you, Madam President. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs! I will return to the nominal and structural deficit, then it will be EUR 100 or 300 million. Obviously, we cannot reach an agreement here because the coalition would rather like a nominal, the opposition would like a more structural deficit. It's a bigger number and a good one, isn't it? There's no point in arguing. But how did this issue not come out in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, but instead was highlighted by the European Commission? Didn't the specialists in the Committee on Monetary Affairs go over it, or didn't the excellent specialists who put together the budget know that? Were they stupid, or did they know, but they kept quiet and didn't tell you? Or did only Europe know, and this budget was put together in Brussels? How about this? Why didn't the Committee on Monetary Affairs find out?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U226	Thank you. The Committee on Finance was very well aware of this. In fact, those who drew up the budget were also aware of this and noted this issue in the explanatory memorandum to the draft budget on page 15. That's where the topic is. As I mentioned, its history dates back to 2009 and 2010. The labour market is assessed by the Ministry of Finance and the European Commission, so there is nothing new about it. The Ministry of Finance has been aware of this issue for years. Structural balance has also been continuously measured in the past. A final assessment can be made ex post, because what the budget cycle is, it can be predicted, but it will be known precisely by looking at the past. But why is this topic still more topical this year? Perhaps because last year, actually even this year, we adopted the basic law on the budget, which will enter into force from 2015 and where the requirement or dimension of the structural balance has been written in. It has been agreed between euro area countries to introduce additional requirements for countries under the structural balance requirement that apply to nominal fiscal positions. That is why it has attracted more attention this year. But the subject is actually old and the Ministry of Finance has been aware of it. This issue has also been addressed in previous meetings of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, not even in the context of the budget, and this issue is also mentioned in the explanatory memorandum to the draft budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U227	Thank you. Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U228	Thank you. Honourable waitress! The Government Coalition has decided to abolish the excise tax credit for special-marked fuel used in small houses and municipal buildings, which is expected to increase the price of indoor heating by 38%. The initiator of the bill, the government representative, the Minister for Finance, has stated in this very Chamber that the budget provides for certain means of switching to other sources of heating. In the Committee on Finance, however, it appeared that the Minister for Economic Affairs, Urve Palo, did not know that housing was one of his tasks and could not say anything about this money, claiming that it was the line of Minister Sulling. Minister Sulling said it's not his line, he doesn't know anything about it, it's Minister Palo's line. The Commission's discussion revealed that this money could be managed by the Ministry of the Environment. Can you tell me how much the budget for next year is going to be, is it even planned and managed by which ministry? When will that be clear? When is this money going to the right place?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U229	Thank you. Is that exactly what it was, but more or less that kind of topic was really at issue in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and this money was indeed sought from the budget in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. So where did we end up? We have come to the conclusion that the support mechanism for small houses is intended to finance the sale of the CO2 quota and that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, together with KredEx, is responsible for developing this measure. This measure should be opened in November 2014, i.e. during this month, it should be signed in the light of the information that was shared in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. There will be a total of EUR 5 million, of which 3 million will be available next year. The instruments for promoting the energy efficiency of apartment buildings come from the structural instruments of the European Union and this measure should also be open by the end of this year. There is a total of EUR 102 million, but all of this will certainly not be implemented in this amount next year. In addition, a total of €50 million has been planned for the promotion of the energy efficiency of public buildings for the period from 2015 to 2018. This is also planned to be financed from the revenue from intra-EU trade in CO2 quotas. It is expected that EUR 3 million will be made available next year. For the latter part, the measure regulation should be drawn up in the coming months. This raises some questions about the timing of the introduction of this money over the next year. That is what we addressed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. We dealt with all three issues separately. There were representatives of local governments who asked questions and expressed ideas. In general, it was found that things are in order with the topics of small houses, that other questions are, in honour of the truth, still in the air. Hopefully they will be resolved here in the coming weeks, this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U230	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Korb, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U231	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, My question is about reducing the level of personal income tax. Very simple: if the median wage is 700 euros, the person wins 5 euros from this reduction, if the salary is 3000 euros, the person wins 30 euros. This is not a very socialist approach. How did you, as a Social Democrat, vote in favour of lowering this rate? Doesn't that seem a little unfair to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U232	I was trying to track your calculations, and I have to say that this is not exactly the case. Account should be taken of the tax-free rate, as well as of the fact that the second pillar of unemployment and pension (for those who have it) is deducted from the taxable amount of income tax because they are not taxed on income tax. But the principle is, yes, of course, that the more a person earns, the greater the help he gets from that percentage drop. As a Social Democrat, I can say that we have in no way been able to vote in favour of it, not even this year as members of the coalition, since this change dates back to 2011. In theory, it would be possible to increase the tax rate. As I have mentioned many times from this remote control, it does not seem sympathetic to me personally to have this tax reduction in the sense that it has its own alternative cost. Its value is about EUR 75 million, and I would be able to think of more attractive applications for this money.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U233	Thank you. Please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U234	Good manager! Good waitress! In Question Time today, Minister Urmas Kruuse said that his main task so far has been the taxation of vices. I said that taxing the evil is then also a 40% increase in the excise duty on specially labelled fuel. If I look at the state budget for next year, I will not find this line of support for the thousands of people who have been put in a difficult situation and who will have to start replacing boilers from May next year. They are said to be able to receive about 40% of the aid, but in reality there is nowhere to be covered by price increases and construction costs. Many of them are lonely people and pensioners. Do you really support this increase in excise duty?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U235	The decision to abolish the reduced excise duty on special fuel was adopted by us, yes, in the spring. Just a moment ago, I read out the measures that can be used to compensate for this. Broadly speaking, they were divided into three parts. The private house measures are financed by revenue from the sale of the CO2 quota, amounting to EUR 3 million in the following year and amounting to EUR 5 million in total. In addition, EUR 108 million will be earmarked for apartment buildings in the next period, and this measure will be financed from the European Union's structural resources. In the public sector, resources can be found not even for buildings, but for those who use this fuel, as well as from the proceeds of the sale of the CO2 quota. They will also amount to EUR 3 million next year. As far as the first measure is concerned, the preparation process has gone well. According to the latest information, the documents should be signed within this month and the measure opened at the end of this year. The preparation of the housing measure is also at an advanced stage, i.e. it should be opened this year. However, the last measure will hopefully reach this point at the beginning of 2015. There's been the slowest pace of preparation. This is what we said at the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs with the local authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U236	Thank you. Please, Urbo Vaarmann, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U237	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the Commission. Today, there have already been a few talks about agricultural subsidies, but no more money was found for transport. Did you discuss in the Commission what would happen to the rural people? How do you, as chairman of the committee, see this? What message do you have for earthlings? We cut off their last chance to do their work, and at the same time we have left them essentially without access to public transport, we have taken doctors, pharmacies and larger companies out of rural areas. What are they supposed to do?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U238	Thank you. In fact, no one is reducing public transport support, so there is nothing more to cut off here. The question is whether this transport is free or not. It seems to me that, although the price is certainly important for many people, it is also important to look at what the good questioner has just referred to, namely the compatibility of the network with people's needs. It needs to be reviewed regularly. There were a lot of issues on the question, and I will mark a few briefly. The topic of medical care was discussed with the Minister for Health and Labour in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. We also discussed the fact that the establishment of family medicine centres will be financed in the next financial period, which may slightly improve the situation. Yes, it is true that it is neither meaningful nor actually possible to do family doctor centers in every municipality, as the customer base of family doctors has become quite small. But also for the county centres, where the population has decreased over the last ten years, it will certainly be an additional aid.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U239	Please, Tarmo Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U240	Thank you, Madam President. Good chairman of the committee! The state budget is a matter of political priorities. One of the main priorities, in my opinion, and I believe that, in the opinion of the social partners, is that the rate of income tax should not be reduced. You said it was decided before. In fact, I don't think you voted for it, but you were able to vote in favour of the Centre Party bill to restore the former rate of income tax. So it was a question of political choices, and you chose the other side, the worse side. That is why free school food is incomplete, as we could read yesterday, i.e. even in primary school, free school food is not guaranteed for children. Farmers' allowance, border crossings, police and border guards' salaries, support to local authorities and road money in fact would have covered it for 70 million euros. Why didn't you support our bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U241	Thank you. I cannot agree that the budgetary priority is either to reduce or not to reduce the rate of income tax. Surely, in the opinion of some parties, this reduction may be a priority, not according to the sots. It is certainly not a priority to fail to do so either. Our priorities have been child benefits and free school food, which will also be offered at upper secondary school level in the coming years. That's what the Central Party has always supported in this hall, according to my memory. So these are definitely one of our priorities. I'm sure there's a lot more out of the budget. But I can answer this question: as perverse as it is in financial terms, raising child allowances to EUR 45 in political terms is the reason why we have to accept that this decision on the rate of income tax in 2011 will remain valid, or why it cannot be changed. In a financial sense, as I mentioned, it does not make sense, but it does sound politically.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U242	Thank you. Please, Priit Onion, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U243	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen of the Commission. Reading both media publications and listening to your answers today, I have no idea how serious you are about agriculture. It's part of the impression that you're sensing the sharpness of the problem. The Minister said here yesterday that if it goes well and the Commission officially confirms it, Estonian dairy producers will receive EUR 6.9 million. However, it is not possible to understand what the Minister has done that depends on us, that is, to get more budgetary resources into the agricultural sector. Europe has really realised that Russia's sanctions affect our dairy sector. But it seems that the coalition and the Minister of Agriculture do not think the same way. Can you comment? How did you deal with this in the Commission and what has the Minister done to your knowledge?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U244	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U245	Thank you. As regards the payment of additional payments from the state budget to farmers, it should be mentioned in the interest of the truth that these payments will not be paid this year either, i.e. the decision not to pay them was taken in the previous government. This criticism, however, tends to come partly from the IRL Group, which does not seem very statesmanly. However, the payment of additional public subsidies other than direct payments coming from the European Union will certainly be the subject of the coming years. There are no additional grants in this budget. That is the situation now. This certainly is not to be commended in itself, especially given the amount of aid per hectare paid to Estonian farmers compared to the average of the other Member States of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U246	Thank you. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. A few weeks ago, our group visited the Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board. He had serious concerns about how to achieve a minimum wage of 900 euros for a police officer. If I understood what he was talking about correctly, only EUR 4.5 million would be needed to make this dream a reality. If we approve this draft budget, will the minimum wage of a police officer be EUR 900, or will it be the Director-General's dream?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U247	Thank you. What the minimum wage will be in this area will certainly depend on the Ministry of the Interior and, in particular, on the decisions of the Agency itself. This is where the funds have been added compared to last year. The police were also an area which was so-called "specially treated" in the context of wage increases, i.e. the amount of money allocated for wage increases was higher than in other areas last year. Is such an increase possible in one year? It probably requires a review of the structure, which, I've heard, the Police and Border Guard Board is doing. Additional resources have been allocated with this budget to raise the salary for the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U248	Thank you. Please, colleague Jüri Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U249	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank you very much for your substantive and constructive answers. I will ask a slightly broader question and understand if this was not discussed in the Commission. Was there, let us say, a concern about the sustainability of the budget structure or an assessment of the budget during the next year's budget? Were the questions raised by the fact that we will see how, in the event of progress with such a budget and payment structure, there are services that the public sector should offer, but which we will no longer be able to offer in the future? Were there any such discussions or were there no such discussions?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U250	Thank you. The subject was not raised directly from this angle, but it certainly ran through discussions in ministries and in different areas. I'm trying to generalize it somehow. There are certainly some areas where problems can be seen in the future. These are not new problems; they have been through discussions. Above all, there has been talk of costs relating, on the one hand, to revenue, but in one form or another, also fixed by law. Some of the causes are relatively inevitable, in particular demographic developments and, in the long term, the pressure on both pensions and health care. Every government, when preparing a budget or budgetary strategy in the short term, must look at it in the light of a slightly longer or medium-term perspective. There's definitely some debate about these things, actually, it's been going on for a long time. The fact that we are born little and we live longer will inevitably require certain decisions. Medication gets more expensive, but also better, life expectancy increases. It is remembered that retirement age once tended to be at the same level as life expectancy. Then, when the average life expectancy increased, the retirement age came down. Now there is a situation where pension age is adjusted as one measure in many countries to ensure the sustainability of pensions. I think it's unfortunately or luckily inevitable. However, as far as the budgetary context is concerned, also in terms of structural balance, it has been discussed that even the second pillar of the pension is caused by the demographic situation. The pension of this generation, represented by some in this Chamber, including I, who stand here, is unlikely to be covered by the future company in the labour market. So there are many of these measures, one is a retirement pension and the other is a change in the retirement age. However, promoting the participation of pensioners in employment is also one of the measures used in different countries. I think that this should be encouraged more in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U251	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U252	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, The conversations with the members of the local self-government federations I have realized that they are very deeply disappointed in you, the social democrats. They will remember your promise of 2011 to restore the income tax base of local governments. The fact that you did not fulfil this promise in this budget is, of course, a disappointment for them. However, I have a different question. For years, you have supported an increase in the proportion of excise duties on fuel that goes to local governments for repair. Was it not possible to solve this problem with this budget? Did you even raise that question?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U253	Thank you. Both issues have been raised. Hopefully, the next few years will lose this disappointment if it exists. I belong to the members of the Riigikogu who remember and sense the problems of local government from their recent past. The topic of municipal affairs is certainly important to me and to all social democrats, including tea money as one topic. The proportion of road money is indeed increasing as a percentage, but it remains the same in number. The proportion of tea money to be paid to local governments will not decrease in the coming years, but I have to admit that it will not grow either. When we went to the coalition, I will be honest with you, our children were a greater priority than the local authorities. Hopefully, in the next coalition, where we can be for four years, we can also solve the problems that were not financed this time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U254	Thank you. Please, Andrus Island!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U255	Thank you, Madam President. Good Commission waitress! I'm going on the road. I've got your coalition agreement ahead of me. Under this point of rural, agricultural and regional policy, it says: "To increase the competitiveness of the important forest industry in Estonia, we reduce the limit on the maximum mass of forest vehicles on major routes. " It is known that the implementation of this point requires extra money, studies have been carried out and the amounts are known. In 2015 the same tea money will actually decrease. When bringing the two together, do we have to admit that this point in the coalition agreement has been bluffed and that this resource is not really in the 2015 budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U256	Thank you. Money has not been cut off from roads that are problematic due to mass restrictions. The question of whether this point can be implemented from the current base must be assessed, and above all in cooperation with the Road Administration. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is probably currently working on whether or not this point can be fulfilled. I know that this has also been the case in the Committee on Economic Affairs in previous years. Certainly some of Estonia's roads are currently unable to lift the mass limit. Some fundamental decision must be made on this matter. Whether this can be done so that these roads get the necessary resources in 2015 or 2016, this debate is still ahead of us, I think.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U257	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U258	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! I will continue with the question put to you by Mailis Reps. This question was among the first to address the financing of private schools and the amount that is now hanging between the earth and the sky. I didn't find any specificity in your answer. But in itself, it's quite a lot of money, and there's an answer to that. I want to clarify when this decision might come. What direction is this decision being prepared now, and how will the state manage with this large amount of money?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U259	Thank you. I'm trying to answer specifically. The content remains the same as last time, I mentioned all these issues. Indeed, it can be assumed that an additional EUR 6 million will have to be found in 2015. In addition, judgments may be issued on the income that local authorities have previously lost. I've been talking to the Minister of Education about this. In cooperation with the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Finance, a proposal will arrive at the table of the Committee on Finance, which will provide a solution to the problem. So this is for the third reading at the latest. In itself, there is a solution as a scenario. Since it has not yet come directly to the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I am not going ahead, but there is a scenario of how to solve the problem. So, for our third reading, there is an amendment to this in the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U260	Thank you. Please, Marko Pomerance!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U261	Thanks! Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs! You have repeatedly pointed out that you are a good local government expert and that your heart is beating towards them. There have been many talks here, however, about free school food, which now comes from somewhere thanks to the coalition. I'm sure you're aware that in Rakvere, offering free school meals to gymnasts means an extra cost to the municipality of about 35000 euros. How would it be legally accurate to deal with what you really mean in the budget? Is it free school food or is it the responsibility of the municipalities to offer it or is it part of the free school food? What is it, really?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U262	Thank you. In fact, the exact same thing with basic school food has been happening for years. It is correct to say that free school meals are provided by the state in cooperation with the municipalities. If there is a municipality that doesn't find a source of cover, it's just like when it comes to comprehensive school, it's gonna have to find another solution in high school. I do not dare say for sure, but as far as I know, there are local governments in Estonia that do not compensate for the difference, but are left with the parent. If such municipalities exist, there should be a few. Perhaps the same principle will continue to apply. Indeed, it is correct to say that free school food is financed mostly by the state and partly by local authorities in upper secondary school as well as in primary school from next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U263	Please, Peter Laurson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U264	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Due to the law adopted in spring, which abolished the possibility of using specially labelled fuel for furnace heating, the price of fuel oil for users will increase by 40% in the following year. In the run-up to the adoption of the law, the government promised to provide a large amount of support for the replacement of centres using fuel oil. However, the handling of this part of the 2015 state budget process has been very confusing and ministers are unable to provide reasonable answers to where this money is on the budget line. At the last meeting with the representative of the Ministry of Finance, it became clear that only 15% will actually be compensated for the replacement of fireplaces. What is your opinion as to whether the Riigikogu received false information about the extent of compensation when voting on a draft for the loss of specially labelled fuel? What must thousands of households next year find themselves in a difficult situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U265	Thank you. This issue has been addressed here at least twice today. Since the MPs are in the room irregularly, I will briefly talk about this issue again. First of all, I'm talking about finding money from the budget. Indeed, at the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, it has become clear where it is planned to be compensated. Its financing is divided into three parts: two parts are financed by the sale of the CO2 quota and one of the structural resources of the European Union. It is divided into three, first and foremost, according to the principle of where someone can apply for money. Small houses will be able to apply for money from the proceeds from the sale of the CO2 quota, which will amount to EUR 3 million and a total of EUR 5 million in the following year. Together with the local authorities, we stated that there are no problems here at all, that the need should be relatively well in line with the measure. The measure should open in the next six months and, according to the information provided by the Commission, be signed in November. Apartment buildings have the structural resources of the European Union as a source of financing. This process, too, has reached a relatively good stage, a measure that should be opened this year. There is more to the question of how closely the measure coincides with compensation. In fact, energy audits are also needed, etc. The local authorities were less optimistic here. The potential partial compensation for public investment will result from the sale of the CO2 quota. The problem is that the pace of preparation of this measure has been the least developed and should not be opened until early 2015. There seem to be some of the most serious problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U266	Thank you. Please, Lauri Laasi, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U267	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! Government members have provided many different and contradictory explanations on the financing of roads. Can you tell me how it is with the funding of roads, whether it is increasing or decreasing? If it decreases, how much?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U268	As far as local authorities are concerned, the funding of roads will not be reduced. However, funding is also dependent on the speed with which external assistance can be implemented. It can be expected that in 2015 the volume of external assistance will not be as large as it has been in the past. Above all, therefore, it has also been possible to reduce the planned own contribution. So it is correct to say that there is no reduction in local road money and, in the case of the state, it is a question of external aid, of what exactly is it going to be in terms of the implementation of the sum.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U269	Thank you. Please, Thomas Tõniste! None. Let's keep going. Please, Aivar Chef, second question! None. Helir-Valdor Seeder, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U270	Thank you. I happen to be there. Honourable waitress! You have constantly said that your personal position is different when it is reflected in the budget proposed by the government, that you would have found other, better sources of cover, not in what is called trivial but quite important issues, such as agricultural funding, a reduction in the rate of income tax, and a number of other very fundamental issues. Are you sure you're in the right party? How do you manage to process this budget so self-sacrificely as Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs? Share this experience!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U271	Thank you. It's definitely an exaggeration, as if I've been saying it all the time. I mentioned this in one area. I have not made it a secret that this is a reduction in the income tax rate from 21% to 20%, which leaves the natural and legal person's income tax Circa 70 to 75 million euros to the government revenue side, rather EUR 75 million. For this money, I could find a nicer application. It also relates to the sources of cover provided for, for example, by the Centre Party in its amendments to the additional support for agriculture. That's where the treatment came from. I have said that my personal opinion is different when we are talking about lowering the tax rate. But I would also stress that this decision was taken by the previous government coalition, the coalition of the IRL and the Reform Party in 2011. The realisation of this decision will simply take place in 2015 and will concern the budget for next year. So, in dealing with this budget, I, who have been part of the coalition since spring, have not had a duty, a need or a reason to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U272	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U273	Thank you very much. Good performer! An hour ago, the news came that Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas has even three times used the Police and Border Guard Board helicopter for his own rides. When he drove to the Jõhvi Police Annual Ball, it took 871 euros, the second one cost nearly 500 euros, etc. These are very big expenses. We know that the budget of the Police and Border Guard Board is very, very tight: salaries are not rising, police officers are constantly falling, etc. Have you planned suddenly a new budget line for this next year, or will this money be deducted from the PPP next year? That would be a shame.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U274	Thank you. Please, Aivar Sõerd, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U275	Thank you. I have to admit, I haven't gone very deep into this subject. But I'm assuming that once the police and border guards have used a chopper, it's paid for according to expenses. I assume that this money has not fallen off some lines of the budget of the Police and Border Guard Board, but it has still been financed by those who have used this service.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U276	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! The Committee on Finance received an amendment on the budget, which proposed to cut the management costs of ministries by 5%. Well, that sounds really nice if we take the money away. What are they spending there, especially at the end of the year! We addressed this issue a little bit in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Would you also explain in this Chamber what this means in practice and what the representative of the government felt about cutting the administrative costs of ministries and indirectly of sub-offices in this way?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U277	Thank you. Clearly, as the good questioner correctly pointed out, it would seem nice of us to take 5% out of everything and get a pretty nice sum. However, the author of the amendment, which was the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance, did not mention what is therefore not actually done. Among the institutions from which the money was to be taken was the Estonian Museum of Natural History, Public Prosecutor's Office, Heritage Board, Libraries, Road Administration, etc., in addition to all ministries. In other words, as the Ministry of Finance's official pointed out in his commentary, it may actually mean reducing wage costs in the fields of culture, internal security and education or excluding any activities. I have never had the opportunity to comment here before. In a kind of procedural sense, I must admit this year that the amendments proposed by the Centre Party were financially more correct than those of the IRL. I know that in previous years, the former chairman of the IRL Commission has often criticised the Central Party's amendments and admitted that the Social Democrats have been much more correct in financial terms. I'm sure there's a reason to deny it. But this time I will be honest with you that, in the context of the budgetary procedure, the Central Party's amendments are much better this year in terms of the credibility of the sources of cover.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U278	Please, Marko Pomerants, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U279	Thanks! First of all, I must tell my colleague Marika Tuusi that I was at a police party in Jõhvi, but the Prime Minister was not there. The reason was very simple: the helicopter could not land because of bad weather. So sometimes driving a car is a win-time. But a good waitress! Since you are confused with the so-called Commission presentation and your own personal views on how you make policy, I wonder if the next time the Reform Party comes up with the idea of reducing a few more percent of income tax, you will be willing to act illogically for the sake of a good goal, for example, to increase the income base of local governments.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U280	Thank you. I mentioned this earlier, too, that I personally do not support a further reduction in the rate of income tax. But, as I have said many times today, as regards the reduction of this rate from 21% to 20%, I have never been able to vote as a member of the coalition, because this decision was taken by the IRL and the Reform Party in 2011. Changing it now would mean increasing the rate of income tax. Further reductions and increases in the rate of income tax are different decisions in terms of content. But I personally do not support any further reduction in the rate of income tax, and I can say that my party and political groupmates agree.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U281	Thank you. Before we proceed with the questions, Helir-Valdor Seeder has a procedural question, if I understand correctly. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U282	Thank you. I have a procedural question. The rapporteur argued that the amendments tabled by the IRL were not correct. I understand that we cannot vote on them because the amendments that have not been tabled correctly are not voted by the Riigikogu. However, I regret to say that this opinion was not expressed by the chairman of the committee at the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and we voted on these proposals. So they are all correct and, in my opinion, comply with the law. Now I have a question for the manager. Is it true or not, what the chairman of the committee has just stated that these are incorrect proposals and that they are not going to be voted on? Or did he simply say that the proposals he did not like were not correct? If that is the case, there is a great contradiction here with good practice and the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, because the chairman of the committee should not express an opinion on the regularity of the proposals on the basis of whether or not he likes them.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U283	Thank you. The question was for the President of the sitting. I can't tell you exactly what the waitress was thinking, because I'm not a hiroman and I'm not reading her mind. If I could do that, maybe I'd work somewhere else. But since these proposals have been brought here by the Commission and if you put them to the vote on behalf of either the IRL Group or someone else in this Chamber, they will certainly be voted on. Other comments can be made by the rapporteur in response to the following questions: So let's keep going. Peter Laurson, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U284	In order to clarify, I will ask the same question posed by Helir-Valdor Seeder. Can IRL amendments be voted in the Chamber or not? What is the justification for your claim that the IRL proposals are not correct?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U285	Thank you. The good questioner now wasted his question because I would have answered that question anyway. There is certainly a need for clarification here, and it will be possible for all MPs to do so on the basis of a verbatim report. I have not argued that these amendments are incorrect within the meaning of the basic law on domestic and operating procedures or on the state budget. I argued that the amendments proposed by the Centre Party are more correct, both in financial and budgetary terms. They really are, because when we talk about the source of cover, it is not exactly clear what remains to be done with the IRL proposals. This is not only my personal assessment, but was also accepted by an official of the Ministry of Finance who was present at the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. From a purely technical point of view, it is certainly possible to vote on these proposals; incorrectness is not correct here, let us say so. Why am I saying that the amendments proposed by the Centre Party are more correct? This amendment to the IRL does not reveal what will not be done by the ministries. But in purely technical terms, it is possible to vote on all these proposals, and they will certainly go to the vote. In the practice of the Committee on Finance, there have also been questions in previous years as to whether the logic of one or the other amendment is quite as it should be. Last year, I remember a group proposing to allocate a certain amount to the Tax and Customs Board in order to reduce the budget gap, which was several times higher. At the same time, the committee was asked, under the chairmanship of the IRL, whether or not it should be voted on. The current practice, which I believe should continue, has been that if the amendment is formally correctly tabled, it will also be voted on in this Chamber. Undoubtedly, if the IRL wishes to put its amendments to the vote, the Riigikogu's full room will certainly vote on them. I repeat that I did not call these amendments incorrect, but the amendments proposed by the Centre Party are, according to me and the Ministry of Finance, not content, but precisely in terms of which sources of cover are simply more correct, both budgetaryly and financially.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U286	Thank you. Please, Andrus Island, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U287	Thank you, Madam President. Good Commission waitress! I will continue on the issue of regularity. When my colleague Lauri Laas asked you whether or not the money allocated to the local roads would be reduced, you replied that there would be no reduction. I see from the table that it still decreases the amount to close to EUR 60000, i.e., to say more precisely, EUR 58500, the reduction is 0.2%. If you are correct, isn't that a reduction?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U288	Thank you. I'm sure that's clear from this table. I don't have it in front of me. I know that this amount should be EUR 28 million. I don't dare say the decimal place by heart, because all the numbers that, when you line up, you get the numbers that this budget is made up of, I don't exactly have in my head. But I can tell you that the size of the money going to local government roads is not reduced and that this amount should be EUR 28 million from my memory.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U289	Please, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U290	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! I have a long experience of being in opposition, and therefore I have the best clear two words:'mom' and 'covers'. After 'Mom', 'cover sources' is the next word that's been kicked into my brain like that, so I can deliriously deliriously deliriously delirious. The sources of coverage of your budget represent a very significant share of the dividends of state-owned enterprises. For example, the economic performance of Eesti Energia has deteriorated in recent times because oil prices are very low. In my opinion, Eesti Energia recently announced that they could not pay a dividend of 20 million euros, even though it was planned. Do you have any contingency plans that have passed through the Committee on Monetary Affairs that will happen if the sources of cover are not received?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U291	Thank you. As far as I know, Eesti Energia has not been planned to take the dividend in 2015. The 20 million euros dividend is planned to be taken from Elering. The volume of dividends planned is relatively similar to that taken this year, with the exception of those mentioned in Elering's 20 million euros. The remaining dividends should be the same as last year's or, rather, planned this year. It is remembered that last year was a very dividend-rich year, which was more than twice as much as it is this year and the following year. At the moment, there has been no hint from public undertakings that the planned dividends would be unduly high and that their payment would be too much. I also mentioned before how much dividends can be taken. In short, I would like to reiterate that the restriction that dividends should not go out of the budget structure and that they should not improve structural or even nominal balance is the average amount of dividends taken over the last three years. In addition, there is a GDP-related constraint. So you can't expand that volume very much. Next year, the order of magnitude will be as this year and much smaller than last year.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U292	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Sing, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U293	Thank you. Good performer! My question concerns one of the major cluster amendments of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which will clarify the 2014/2020. Financing of rural development programme measures for 2006. It states that the new requirements of European Union and Estonian legislation must be met. Can you specify what the new requirements are?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U294	As stated in the explanatory memorandum, a number of new measures will be added in the new programming period and the requirements of the measures will change significantly compared to the current period. Consequently, the estimated costs are higher than previously expected. Information technology costs will also increase as existing systems need to be brought into line with the requirements of the regulations and, in addition, new technology systems will have to be developed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U295	Thank you. Please, colleague Jüri Ratas, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U296	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Honourable Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I listen and I look at you and I think it's actually a pretty powerful feeling that you're here for the first time in this position to defend the budget. The flag is also in the hall and everything is festive. The previous chairman of the committee has certainly left great traces of himself, and you have taken very good steps in his footsteps. I wish to congratulate you for the second time! One might, of course, ask what has been the best question that has been asked to you in these several hours. If you want to, answer it. But what I am essentially asking is that if you look at the amendments that have been tabled for second reading, to what extent the budget for next year is dedicated to sport and support for sport. What positive would you point out?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U297	Thank you. I have to say that I have not compared our foot numbers, but I assume that, as a result of this number, the traces of the previous committee chairman are greater than those of me. That is why the previous chairman may be jealous that if he came here as chairman of the committee to defend the budget, there was no flag in the hall. In that sense, it's a proud feeling to stand in front of this place right now. As far as the best question is concerned, it seems to me that the best question was what sounded just a moment ago, perhaps the question of the last questioner himself. If there were to be awards, without knowing what the following questions will point out, I think it would be a serious precedent for this title. Even if he doesn't win, I think he could make it to the top three, considering there are three questions left. So one more has to be promoted, at least if it's based on this tab. In fact, in the wider sense, in the logic of the whole structure of our country, it is also the responsibility of local authorities to support sport and culture. If you look at the local government's own budgets, there is the largest share of education expenditure and next tends to come, depending on the municipality, all kinds of cultural and sports funding costs. Certainly, municipalities have an important role to play in financing sport, but there is no doubt that the state also has a wide range of financing measures. Next year, the biggest change in budgetary terms is the support for young trainers, which has caused even the most talk this year. It is not a very big secret that so far many youth coaches have not been paid for their work under the Employment Contracts Act, but in other ways. The budget has been allocated to compensate for the change. For example, a number of NGOs, as well as municipalities, where sports schools exist in my home country, are additional revenues that are received in the budget, because wages or remuneration paid for work have been paid in the form of salaries under the Employment Contracts Act in the past, so this additional amount is an additional bonus. I think this is the biggest change in the budget in the area of sport and culture compared to this year's budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U298	Thank you. Please, Margus Tsahkna!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U299	Thank you very much for your answer. I also want to congratulate you because you have given very substantive answers. My question is also substantive. First of all, I would like to congratulate the social democrats, who have noted that one in four children in Estonia lives alone in the household of the parent raising the child. The Social Democrats submitted a draft on this subject to the Riigikogu, which you have withdrawn, but now the draft with the same content is again in the Riigikogu proceedings and the Social Democrats have announced publicly that they will support it. That's what the Centre Party has said. The Reform Party has said that they do not support the draft creation of a livelihood fund. This bill requires 51 votes and basically these votes are already together in this Chamber. As regards the state budget, IRL has proposed one not very large but substantive amendment so that the Government of the Republic has the means to develop and implement this maintenance fund. Why didn't the Committee on Monetary Affairs support it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U300	Thank you. Yes, it is true that such an amendment was received from the IRL by our committee and that it found a procedure there. It is no secret that the Social Democrats have expressed sympathy for the creation of a livelihood fund, but in the Committee on Monetary Affairs this proposal did not really support the majority. One of the reasons that was pointed out was that the proposed source of cover was the reserve fund, so that it would, by its very nature, be 'one-off support'. However, it would make sense to find a regular source of financing. I do not know whether, in the view of all those who did not support this amendment, this was the only reason why they did not support it, but the Ministry of Finance pointed out this issue and discussed it in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U301	Please, Ene Ergma, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U302	Thank you very much. Good chairman of the committee! I'm not gonna talk about who's gonna ask the nicest questions. But I have a bit of a strange feeling because the Reform Party has spoken, and now you are also saying that all the sins that have been committed in this country have been done by the IRL. Okay, I agree. Let's take care of all the sins. Indeed, we committed this sin by adopting a law that reduced income tax from 21% to 20%. But if your party is so principled and you even fought very seriously for progressive income tax last year, why didn't you change the law or try to change it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U303	Thank you. As regards, in particular, the wish to increase the rate of income tax, which is currently being dealt with as an amendment, I think that, in general, a tax amendment with advance notice of less than two months is not correct, whether or not the content of this amendment is pleasing. But to the question of why we haven't changed it, I've answered here once and I'll answer again. As I said, it seems illogical in financial terms, but very logical in political terms. One reason why we have not changed the reduction in the income tax rate is so that we can raise child benefits. That is exactly the answer: raising child benefits to EUR 45, which was not soon raised for 11 years, has certainly been our priority. Politics, especially in parliamentary systems where there is a proportional electoral system, tends to be that one party alone cannot form a government, so compromises are inevitable. So it can be said that this is a compromise.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U304	Thank you. Please, Aivar Riisalu, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U305	Thank you, President-in-Office. Now the best question for this evening is to base the last words of the previous answer on compromises. You go wrestling with a squirrel, you get hairy, you fall out of a tree, and it's really hard to wash off these hairs. History has shown this repeatedly that there is no point in wrestling with a squirrel. Now I ask you what was the most difficult moment for you, as Chairman of the Monetary Commission and Social Democratic Party you represent here, to deal with the draft state budget. At what point did you have to go against yourself the most and feel like you couldn't do it anymore because squirrel hairs tended to stifle breathing?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U306	Thank you. What's to deny, most of this budget was agreed in the spring. Normally, if the time for one coalition does not end before four years, the budgetary disputes between the government partners, and also at the level of Parliament, are much more intense than this time in August and September, because we have had these agreements in general in the spring. But there aren't many of these difficult places. One of the problems was finding a financial cover. I can't point out any particular place where I, or other Social Democrats, would have felt that squirrel hairs were preventing breathing, and there's no way to get them out of their throat. I don't really feel it. As I said, compromises are compromises and they had to be made, but ultimately I personally feel that in the big picture it became a pretty good budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U307	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U308	Thank you. President-in-Office of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I would first of all like to thank you for the kind words you said a while ago that the amendments proposed by the Centre Party were correct. But you have also been in opposition for some time. It is the case with the Committee on Monetary Affairs that no matter what amendments the opposition is proposing, the source of the cover is still not appropriate. If the source of the cover is a reserve, it is not appropriate, if it is a tax change, then it is not suitable either. Last year we made one amendment, even with such a source of cover, to avoid building a fence around the President's castle. There was another coalition at the time, but neither was this source of cover, even though the fence had not been built. Then advise the opposition which source would fit.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U309	Thank you. Please, Siret Eagle, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U310	Thank you. What is the appropriate source of cover will certainly depend on which parties are specifically in the coalition and in the opposition. I do not think it would be very difficult, ideologically speaking, to find sources of cover on which there would be consensus between us and the Centre Party. These frameworks place an approach to the socio-economic dimension as well as to tax policy issues. As I have said many times, lowering the tax rate is perhaps not the most sensible way to spend money. I understand that this understanding is also inspired by the Central Party's amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U311	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! In your previous reply, you indicated to me that farmers would not receive any additional support from the state because you were unable to foresee this in the coalition agreement. Maybe you're right. However, there has been a crisis in agriculture since August and this area should be viewed differently. Do you not think that you could have raised this issue very sharply in the government and still find an additional EUR 23 million for farmers? Why didn't you?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U312	Thank you. I certainly have not said that, when we negotiated coalition, we did not foresee that this issue would be in the air. This issue has been in the air since the year when no additional subsidies are actually paid. So we are quite familiar with this subject. With regard to this EUR 23 million, the reality is that within the framework with which we operated on the revenue side, we were unable to find a source of cover. Basically, our priority was number 1, so to speak, child benefits, school food and other issues related to children. A regional policy aspect has been highlighted here, such as support for local authorities, which is a current problem and needs to be resolved in the coming years. I think that the subject of agricultural subsidies is exactly the same in the air. But within the framework of this budget, as we now have, we did not find 23 million euros to cover this expenditure.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U313	Thank you. Please, Margus Tsahkna, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U314	Thank you. Dear waitress, I come back to Amendment 16 on the preparation and implementation of the laws necessary for the creation of a maintenance fund. It provides for an increase in the labour and management costs of the Ministry of Social Affairs and, in fact, information costs. You said that the source of the cover is wrong, although the content of the proposal is correct. Only a one-off cost could be used for the government reserve, but it is a one-off cost. I believe that if you and the Centre Party stick to their words, we may still take this decision this year and have the Government of the Republic prepare the draft task. It would be essential that this money is then earmarked, namely as a one-off cost next year. I have a request like a question. Before we vote on the amendments, would you discuss whether this change should still be made in the budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U315	Thank you. We will definitely discuss whether this is a one-off cost or not. The assumption that this would be one-off is that the state will be able to recover all these claims from parents who do not want to pay a living and who will be paid out of that fund to compensate for their non-payment. I think that this will probably not be a one-off expenditure, although I hope that, if this fund is set up, it will be possible to recover most of the costs arising from the disbursement of this fund. However, I am afraid that this will not be entirely the case in the future, some claims will probably remain unfulfilled even if they are recovered by the state, for those who owe them a living.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U316	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U317	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The amount of money allocated for school food has already been discussed in this Chamber and in the budgetary process. But how do you, on the side of the Commission, comment on yesterday's news? After all, one municipality set a precedent, saying that if this amount is not sufficient, it does not care that the state will give it to every child on a targeted basis, but, if the parent is not paid, the municipality will not simply allocate it to that child. It presented the fact that we here in the Riigikogu and the general public did not really exist such a thing as warm school food as a provision for the state. In this light, is it expected that, after second reading, the issue of school food will be approached slightly differently at Commission level or in talks with the Ministry?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U318	Thank you very much. No more questions for the waitress. It's all clear now. We're going to negotiate. First comes the chair of speech, Mikhail Stalnukhin. Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U319	Thank you. This is not a precedent. As far as I know, it has also happened before that not all municipalities have found the means to compensate for the deficit in primary school. It is correct to say that free school meals are offered both in primary school, which I think is very reasonable, and in upper secondary school, which will apply from next year, in cooperation between the state and local governments. Most of it is financed by the State, but some are financed by the municipality. Nobody directly imposes that obligation on local authorities in the sense of law. I do hope that all municipalities will find this money and that it will be possible to offer free school meals in upper secondary school, as has been the case so far in primary school.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U320	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In 1996, a rather strange story took place. From Narva Keelekeskus, where I was then working and where we had a very good, friendly collective, several party representatives went through that year and, given the popularity of our centre, they certainly wanted to have one of us become their party. I remember these meetings. The representatives were the United People's Party of Estonia, the Reform Party, the current Socats (More) and the Centre Party. I've regretted going into politics many times in my life, but today I'm happy. At the time, however, we sat with the collective to make a final choice, and as funny as it may be, we decided where we would send me into the ranks of the party. Then we were best suited to the Centre Party and the Moderates. They had quite close views, and I don't know, maybe the final decision was also influenced by Edgar Savisaar and Küllo Arjakas being present. Anyway, we chose the Centre Party. And today I'm very happy that I'm not a sot. During the debate on this draft budget, quite a number of world-view issues were raised. And one of them, here, I am arguing against the President of our sitting, who said that the answers to the questions have now been received, the fundamental question remains. What's the cost of a conscience? What is the cost of political views, and what is the cost of this government coalition? How much can you sell your principles? Now, let's get closer. I think Estonia begins with the smallest municipality. He doesn't start at Stenbock's house. He starts with a small municipality and ends at Stenbock's house. But the rule is, when difficult times come, our municipalities are still under pressure. This was also the case in 2009, when the decision was taken to cut the share of personal income tax in the local government budget. The funds for harmonising the revenue of local governments' budgets were also cut and the allocation to local governments' budgets for road maintenance, education, day care, cultural life and other needs was reduced. And then it was clearly said that this was a temporary cut as soon as the good economic situation returned, more money would be paid again. Local authorities have lived all these years, believing that they will not be deceived that this proportion will be restored. I have been in charge of the Narva City Council for eight and a half years, and the cut that was made in 2009, I can see clearly that the state borrowed this money from our municipality. Shouldn't have reduced it, but all right, there was a crisis situation. Now give it back! You said if the former situation comes back to normal, you'd give it to me. In recent years, this money has been given much less to local governments. Since the 2009 amendment, this amount will be less than EUR 210 million, including EUR 35.5 million in the next year, 2015. This means that every municipality, every city has lost a huge amount of money for itself. Narva, for example, has lost 10 to 11 million euros. It's huge money. We are told that this deficit will somehow be compensated by other means. The chairman of the committee said here that, in creating this coalition, children were a greater priority than other objectives. Children live in local governments. Give us back our income base, we'll take care of the kids! We'll do much better than you here on Toompea. Over the past few years, funds received from public taxes and other public budget allocations have been 6.6% higher than in 2008 before the crisis to fulfil the local authorities' tasks. Looks like a pretty picture. But at the same time, the state has increased its income to create the same sources from which the money is allocated to municipalities, almost 33% of which is five times more than 6.6%. This means that the municipality, along with all its problems, is as if nobody needs it. Colleagues, do you really think that people do not see it and do not understand it? The funds are being taken away from the municipalities to distribute it to bureaucrats in order to achieve some goals that people simply do not understand. Time is wasted on absolutely meaningless things such as the Cohabitation Act and the Child Protection Act. Work capacity reform will start when local authorities are long broke. So, actually, I'm really sad. Although, of course, we have close-to-sots views, and that means that we are more rivals with them than with the IRL or the Reform Party, I have always hoped that the Snots would still have the character to live up to their principles. Today we see how much power costs and how much it pays to be in power, to be in ministries and offices. It costs exactly how much the governments of Estonia and the residents of those who are sold for power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U321	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Korb! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U322	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for the opportunity I have been given to speak on this floor. When it comes to next year's budget, I would first like to express my frustration at the structure of the budget. I cannot agree in any way with the former Minister Jürgen Ligi's view that the budget is not belletristika and it must be incomprehensible. The structure of the budget must be simple and logical so that every citizen can understand it. The Auditor General has also indicated that a year after year the state budget is made so incomprehensible that it is not possible to understand what the money is spending on. At the time I was studying at the university, I was interested in materials relating to the state budget and I have to admit that they were very well drafted, everything was understandable and clear. The budget for next year on our table today is difficult to understand. And more importantly, there's no way to find anything at all. Every place of interest needs to be searched for for a long time. But actually, I wanted to talk more about other things. In the case of a country, we very often talk about two types of governance: political governance and state-manly governance. The country can also be run as a politician who is based solely on short-term goals and populism. However, statesmanly behaviour is based on long-term goals. If we look at the budget for next year, we will find a number of signs that point to political governance. Lowering the income tax rate is a political objective, not a state-manly step. In the name of populism, revenue is abandoned, which is easy to give up, but which is difficult to recover later. The consequence is that the country is getting thinner, not to mention that the wealthier win more than the poorer population from reducing the tax rate. Let me give you an example here. If a person receives a median salary of EUR 753 per month, he or she will win more than EUR 5 from the reduction in the income tax rate. If a person earns 3000 euros, he or she wins more than 27 euros. The difference is multiple. Speaking of 70 million lost due to a reduction in income tax rates, we are talking about unpaid subsidies, unbuilt roads and dying rural areas. With this same budget, we will restore funeral support, but only people in need of social assistance will receive it. We offer pensioners dental care, but only for EUR 19. I ask what dental care can be offered for 19 euros. That's ridiculous! Not to mention the lack of employment programmes and greater economic stimulus, which cannot be mentioned in this budget. Or we could take on an increase in the responsibilities of the local governments. Government representatives report indiscriminately which responsibilities must be assumed by the municipalities, while money is not or will not be provided to fulfil these obligations. All development will remain behind populism. The tax is easy to lower, but we should think about the state as a whole. The country must not become very thin. If we lower income tax, what happens next? Will we see, as the next step, after 1 March, that the country is again forced to raise VAT? In this Chamber, one of my colleagues asked what are the priorities of this budget and what are the objectives of the budget. In the light of this budget, can we say what we are doing to boost growth? Is the budget talking about how the economy can work better? The former Minister of Finance did not even bother to answer that question. But I suspect the government doesn't even know what our priorities are. Year after year, a large proportion of the budget has been made up of funds from European Union funds. Already, however, we have to ask what happens when we no longer have the European Union's money. At present, life revolves around when European Union funds are reopened. What if the money is no longer available? No one's talking about it. There will be preparations for the next elections, but in the long term, they will not think. Nobody talks about targets, they talk about politics, but the budget is a real policy-influence mechanism. I believe that this is primarily a pre-election budget. We see purely short-term goals and populism. What about state-manly thinking? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U323	Thank you. I'm asking for a speaker's chair, Vladimir Velman!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U324	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Eldar Efendiev, Kalev Kallo, Valeri Korb and Mikhail Korb are no more of us in this hall. A month ago, the previous Minister of Finance started the presentation of the 2015 Draft State Budget Act 730 here on the board as follows: 'The surrounding economic environment always requires Estonia to be attentive and ready to be flexible. The problems affecting a small open economy in Europe and neighbouring countries are more important, and our household needs to be in a particularly good condition to balance the effects of a changing environment. " Since I am a convinced middle party, I like the idea of balance very much. However, I cannot accept that the balance between revenue and expenditure must be achieved at all costs. For example, if so little money has been allocated to the border, it may seem to balance the budget, but the problem itself is huge and money must be found there. Amendment 17, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, provides for additional funding from the state budget to cover staff costs to the Police and Border Guard Board. The aim of the current police reform is to raise salaries from EUR 750 to at least EUR 900. In order to achieve this, jobs will be lost and the remuneration of those who remain "internal resources" will be increased. In reality, the service suffers and, with increasing workload, the remaining workers are also hit. The source of the amendment is the retention of the income tax rate at 21% in the following year. As we have heard from the presentation by the Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, he agrees that maintaining the rate of income tax is perhaps the right step to ensure that more things can be done with the state budget money. I myself believe that our attitude towards the Estonian border is also due to the fact that the Estonian border does not exist. We have a control line, and now we don't have any more of those who are guarding that "border," especially not. This job isn't as popular as it used to be, the uniform isn't as attractive anymore, and people don't really want to do this hard work. However, this is still an important task for our country, and if we do not make progress on this issue, the Estonian border will not only remain open in the near future, but will also be unattended. I very much hope that, as long as we still have time, we will somehow be able to solve better the financing of border guards. I call on everyone to support Amendment 17 of the Centre Party so that the Border Guard Board can get more money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U325	Thank you. For the sake of the stenogram, I would point out that the President was also in the Chamber at the moment you read out the colleagues who were here. But let's keep going. Eldar Efendiev next, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U326	Colleagues remaining in the Chamber and Madam President Laine Randjärv. Perhaps it seems strange that some of the speakers also touched on the issues that I intend to reflect. There was no agreement between us, it just shows how important the subject is. We are facing the draft state budget for the coming year and this is at second reading. Many issues and areas of concern. I'll only stop for a few that seem to be more obvious. We live in 2014 and this draft budget has also made a step towards 2015. For several years, the government has been talking about how successfully Estonia came out of the crisis and trying to prove its claims with various figures. It would now be logical to review the decisions that were made during the crisis, especially those concerning the situation of the municipalities, as the revenue base of the municipalities has been significantly reduced by the state. It would be fair to restore the municipal revenue base at the pre-crisis level, but it has not been done either in the preparation of previous budgets or in the budget for the coming year. I'll bring up a few problem areas. First, maintenance of local roads. It is understandable to everyone that local authorities do not have enough money to maintain this area completely. The situation is particularly difficult when local roads are of international importance, as the use of roads for national and international transport means an additional burden and faster depreciation of roads. Local authorities must, first of all, keep these roads in order, but this will be done at the expense of other local roads. How much longer will the locals endure such a situation? This situation can't go on until it's infinity, because the roads just fall apart. Question two. The state approved a kindergarten place for every child! ' to solve the problems that have arisen with the municipalities. After a while, the program was frozen. The local government's hopes fell into the past, but the problems persisted. The law now adopted a decision to include an obligation for local authorities to also cover the costs of childcare services. The state once again withdrew from solving the problems and left the task on the shoulders of the local government. Has the country's programme been frozen and, if so, for how long, or has it already been completed, closed and no longer exists? Is this the end of the state's obligations, even though they could not begin to be fulfilled? Thirdly, I will touch on the subject of kindergarten, this time with regard to teaching the Estonian language. The Minister repeatedly stressed that this was important, but the decision that it would find state support is what we have been waiting for. What can I do? rhetoric does not mean willingness to act. Fourthly, for several years in a row, the Centre Party Group has proposed to legalise free school food for upper secondary school children. Every time, the other political groups voted out the proposals of the Centre Party Group. Now it is finally legalised, but taking only half a step: the state will pay EUR 0.78 per child. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U327	Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U328	Sven Sester, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U329	Thank you. It has been stressed that food is free for the child. Therefore, the remainder of the necessary amount must be covered by the municipality from its limited resources. What's the necessary amount, the initiators don't know. Our proposal to increase basic support to EUR 1 was not supported. Fifthly, I draw attention to the problems of financing private schools. The Supreme Court made its own decision, which must finance private schools, and it provided that the state must also allocate some amount. But how, in what extent and when is still under question. Nor is this reflected in the draft budget. Is it right that the costs are known in advance, but are not included in the budget? In his speech, the chairman of the committee said that the changes would come before we reached the third reading. We'll be waiting. The issue of police workers' salaries is also a concern. No additional money is foreseen for this purpose. It can therefore be assumed that wage increases can only come at the cost of reducing the composition. Does this meet our security goals of such vigorous redundancies in the field of border guards and police? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U330	Ladies and gentlemen, It is a pity that there are considerably fewer of you in this Chamber than there are observers on the Internet of the sitting, but I understand that there are much more important issues to discuss in the budgetary procedure. A few days ago, in Postimees, I made a few comments that I would like to share with you as a representative of the IRL Group. You know, lean soup is edible, but it doesn't offer much taste. To get a good soup, you have to add a little pepper and salt, and you could use a few pieces of meat. The same is true for next year's state budget. On the one hand, the government has to be commended for the fact that there are no major stupidities in the budget, but there are also no decisions that are important for Estonia. The result is a slight lurr. In large terms, the main problem with the budget is the absence of a major narrative, based on the words of Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. The budget has no ambitious objective and no plan. The money is distributed a little to one target group, a little to another, but no one gets any tangible benefits. On the other hand, the budget does not provide solutions to a number of important issues. Necessary decisions with real impact to support economic growth, reduce the tax burden on labour, help create new jobs and actually improve people's livelihoods are left to the discretion of the next government. For Estonia, this means one lost year. It is a serious concern that the budget will deepen the living of government debts. In a situation where the budget will grow by 7% next year, or half a billion euros, yes, you have heard correctly, 500 million euros will be the increase in the state budget next year, the state budget has still managed to close down by 100 million euros. In this context, I am particularly concerned about the European Commission's recent assessment of the structural government deficit of 0.7% of GDP in the next two years. Please note that we are now talking not only about nominal deficits, but also about structural deficits! The differences between the European Union and Estonia's forecasts are due both to the different assessment of the GDP gap and to which measures are taken into account as one-off factors. On the other hand, page 15 of the explanatory memorandum to the 2015 draft state budget states that the assessment of budgetary policy and recommendations will be based on the European Commission's forecasts. We, too, with the new basic law on the state budget adopted in spring, stipulated that the state budget must be structurally balanced or in surplus. As we read yesterday's overview of the state budget of the Legal and Analytical Department of the Riigikogu, experts have also reached a worrying conclusion. According to the calculations of the Fiscal Board at Eesti Pank, there is a high risk in 2014 and 2015 that the Estonian government has estimated the structural budget surplus to be higher than the actual one. That's polite. I think everyone can read between the lines. Ladies and gentlemen, Today we're playing some weird game whose rules can be bent, interpreted and changed. These are clear signs of danger. For this reason, the IRL Group proposed, in the procedure of the draft state budget, a reduction in government expenditure of EUR 10 million in order to improve the balance of the state budget and make it more effective. We have already promised at first reading that we will not ignore the strengthening of the Estonian state border. The government has allocated EUR 0.9 million to the national border in the draft budget, which is clearly too little in view of the current security situation. According to the IRL amendment, an additional EUR 4 million would be earmarked for strengthening the border. The Estonian border with Russia is the external border of the European Union, and its development should be one of our country's priorities in the coming years, and it needs to move quickly towards it. This is not just about the case of the Eston Suitcase, but, above all, about whether our eastern border is holding. I am thinking of preventing both cross-border smuggling and trafficking in human beings. Our biggest cost amendment is to allocate EUR 15 million to farmers for national transitional support. If you look at the budget by sector, some of the biggest losers will be farmers next year, whose support was simply sharply shut down. The competitiveness of farmers in an uncertain market situation due to Russia would be a strong blow if they were to be deprived of the subsidies that are also paid in our neighbouring countries. In recent weeks, we have talked to some coalition politicians in the corridors of the Riigikogu and asked why farmers have been put in this position. The answer is, well, you get it, the Reform Party wants it. I honestly don't understand! The portfolio of the Minister of Agriculture is in the hands of the sots and please defend your position not only in words but also in deeds! We also proposed to invest nearly EUR 2 million in R &amp; D. If we want to ensure the stable development of research institutions in scientific disciplines relevant to Estonia's socio-economic development, this is the least that should be added. In addition, the IRL proposed to allocate a resource for the preparation and implementation of the laws necessary for the creation of a single parent maintenance fund. In Estonia, one in four children grows in a single parent's family, and in many cases they do not receive the allowance that a separate parent should pay. Such children are among the most economically difficult members of society, so their development opportunities are limited and make up a significant proportion of children living below the poverty line. The draft decision of the Riigikogu has also been submitted by the IRL to Parliament's proceedings. We also want to intensify the implementation of the administrative reform. The inevitability of administrative reform was lastly highlighted by the Auditor General of the National Audit Office during the presentation of the annual report. Most parties support it, employers' organisations support it, society supports it, but the Reform Party does not support it. And that has been the case for years. Honestly, it's embarrassing. We could have considerably fewer municipalities, significantly fewer public earners and much stronger local attraction centres. According to our proposal, money is intended for the preparation and implementation of the laws necessary for administrative reform. In summary, the biggest problem is that Estonia stands still in its development. The perception of the state's stagnation is general. It was just referred to by the Auditor General; it is felt in the private sector; we can also see this in comparison with the southern neighbours of Latvia and Lithuania. At our current level of development, an economic growth of 1 to 2% is not the way we catch up with neighbouring countries on the other side of the Baltic Sea. Estonia must have its own story and its own purpose. A simple redistribution of money and a continuous increase in subsidies cannot be a success story for Estonia. Nobody else will eat the soup we're cooking for us today, even if the soup is lean. In order to render it mute, we propose that the second reading of the draft state budget be interrupted. Let us take a moment to avoid losing another important year to Estonia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U331	Valeri Korb, please! I'll give you more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U332	Ladies and gentlemen, Interestingly, if we look at history, we will see that when we talk about the state budget, we will discuss more about what needs to be done to ensure that the state remains. At the same time, we have completely forgotten that we have 215 local authorities after the country. I agree with my colleague, Mr Stalnukhin, who spoke at length about what concerns local authorities today. In this hall year after year, when discussing the state budget, we have still paid attention to the local government's income base. I would remind you that the European Charter for Local Government provides for the establishment of the revenue base necessary to carry out the tasks assigned to local authorities by law. This would guarantee the investments needed for local development and the sustainable development of local authorities. Unfortunately, I believe that the 2015 state budget also does not provide funds to ensure the financial autonomy of local authorities, the development of partnerships and greater cooperation between local authorities. The share of local government income tax is 11.6% in 2014 and the same level is planned for 2015, i.e. 11.6%. The Coalition Agreement provides for an increase of 12%, while the Equalisation Fund will increase by only EUR 10500 at all. We must state that, in the negotiations on the 2015 state budget of the delegation of the Government Commission and the Municipalities Cooperation Council, the final protocol contained disagreements of EUR 28 million. They concern the allocation of the compensatory fund and the amount of personal income tax received by local authorities. There's nothing left to talk about. It has not been taken into account at all that the revenue base of the municipalities receiving the resource tax on natural resources is decreasing, especially in Ida-Virumaa. In this way, there is a great need to receive support from the Equalisation Fund. Account should be taken of the fact that electricity prices increased in 2014 and this has also led to an increase of 9.5% in the price of services. The local government's income base allowing for wage increases must therefore increase considerably more than planned. My favourite topics are the local government and, of course, Kohtla-Järve. If we want to raise the salary of all the staff of the U.S. authorities administered by Kohtla-Järve City Government by at least 9%, we will need an additional EUR 1.2 million to cover staff costs. Income tax in the city is forecast by the Ministry of Finance to increase by 6%. At the same time, income tax revenues increased by only 4,2% in 2014 and 4% are planned for 2015. This means that the Kohtla-Järve city budget lacks EUR 900000 to cover the needs. There is no cover for the increase in some electricity costs and the cost of the heating economy, not to mention the resources needed for development. From year to year, the receipts of pollution charges to local authorities have decreased and no funds are foreseen in the draft state budget to compensate for this. The municipalities' associations point out that the support for local road storage will decrease by 0.8% in the 2015 state budget. We consider it unfair that local roads account for 40% of Estonian roads, but only 10% of national road money goes to their savings. In fact, the financial needs are double and more EUR 29260000 is needed compared to the 2013 amount. It may be stated that the financing of the educational costs of local governments remains confusing in the state budget. It is not known what the wage growth of educators is planned for and how kindergartens' training costs will start to flow. A lot has been said about free school lunches in 2015, but at the same time we all find that EUR 0.78 per food money day does not allow this service to be provided. We talked about EUR 1, but in fact the representatives of the local government claim that EUR 1.3 per lunch is needed. Grants to finance school transport and investments for local authorities' cultural and sporting objects are still excluded from the budget. Lastly, I would like to talk about the fact that the extremely bad looks at a situation where a large part of the national programmes are for orphans, while in 2013 the government did not use 547 million euros, according to the National Audit Office. It would be very good if we did not have to state next year that many of the amounts earmarked for this year have not been used, the programmes have not been completed. Here is what to think about, and not only the Ministry of Finance, but also the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U333	Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U334	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I was motivated here today by the frustration of the government's inaction. At the end of the 18th century, Prince Grigori Potjomkin set up village models for the tour of the Russian Empress Katariina II to give the impression that there would be dense settlement in the regions and that there would be general welfare. This kind of construction of Potemkin's village is going to be a great deal for us. It's just that the characters are different. Instead of Catherine II, the European Union is the Prime Minister and his party instead of the Prince. As a facade, we are showing a man wearing colored socks and suits who is walking firmly along an airfield from which proud fighters fly. But in fact, the fighters aren't ours, the airfield is built for foreign money, and the man who walks there, I don't think he knows where he's headed, where he's finally going. I quote here the sentence that has become famous in the Riigikogu: 'What is wrong with this picture? " It's like there's nothing wrong with the picture. But what's behind this picture? What's the reality when advertisers put their cameras in a bag, put them in a car, and drive away? It's quiet. Reality is not even reflected in the budget for next year that we are discussing today; reality can be seen by looking a little further away from Tallinn and Tallinn. The song tells us that there are high - price basement shops and young mothers, but in reality there are neither, not even these shops nor these young mothers. Rather, BMW has been used for the dream of life, and on Midsummer Day someone usually gets his chin when the party gets too excited. This is the reality of Estonia's rural life. There are two important issues for the future of rural areas: agriculture and transport. Unfortunately, neither of these issues will be resolved by the state budget next year. In implementing reforms of agricultural policy, the European Union has provided an opportunity for Estonia and other so-called new European Union countries to support farmers from the state budget up to 2020 with additional money. This is to compensate for the fact that direct payments to our farmers are among the smallest compared to those of producers in the 'old' Member States. This is to prevent significant reductions in subsidies. It is also important from the point of view of equal conditions of competition that Latvia and Lithuania have announced further support for their farmers. Unfortunately, this is not what our country is planning. Estonia would be able to support its farmers with 20 million euros next year, unfortunately we will not see this provision in the draft state budget for next year. The victims are Estonian farmers directly and indirectly the whole rural area. Another important problem that should be addressed in the countryside is transport. There is no job on Earth because jobs have moved to cities. People now have two options: either to move to the city to live or to go from country to country to work. Unfortunately, the latter becomes increasingly difficult every day. Indeed, it is very difficult to motivate people to work when the vast majority of their income is used to work. I therefore consider it very important to extend free public transport and to offer free bus services to Estonian people on the county routes. Transport connections to centres are very important in rural areas and must be accessible to everyone. Unfortunately, that is not the case. The total amount that could go into this is EUR 21.7 million, but it is not foreseen to support public transport. Our amendment is that this support would replace the current ticket revenue for the county routes, which would allow free bus travel for people on Estonian land routes. I regret that Estonia is moving firmly forward in a direction where the opinion that this direction is not the right one is getting worse every day. Dear coalition ambassadors who are not in the hall! Sometimes look over your shoulder to make sure that your path is right, not just that NATO fighters can fit the advertising footage! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U335	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U336	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, The State Budget Act is one of the most important laws of the year. Unfortunately, the role of the opposition remains to criticise and make proposals here, but no one is counting on us anyway. First of all, I am talking about the positive side of the budget, which also brings us joy. Obviously, due to the approaching elections, the budget has taken into account the long-standing proposals and wishes of the Centre Party, which we have only been able to discuss in the past. We are pleased that the budget has finally reached the end of the increase in child benefits, the partial payment of the school lunch for upper secondary school students and the partial restoration of the funeral allowance. You can only be happy about that. However, there is no way to agree with those who are talking about our public finances and a balanced state budget. I remember that one year there has been no nominal balance in the state budget, and unfortunately next year will also be one where this balance will not be achieved. More than EUR 100 million will not be covered. However, it can be said that we are living at the expense of the coming periods. Whether the state budget is structurally balanced is very difficult for me to say, but it is worth being very careful in any case. In my opinion, the comments made by the European Commission should necessarily be taken into account. After all, it is obvious that the state budget is tearing from every end, and money is not found for many very necessary things. My biggest concerns are that our government and coalition have deprived farmers of the money that the European Union would allow to pay next year. This is not a priority for the government, even though we could support our farmers with EUR 23 million next year. I would remind you that this year, too, the government has not supported the Estonian farmer. I was listening to an IRL performer who accused the government of not supporting a farmer, but the IRL was just a member of the coalition, and that party was also the previous Minister of Agriculture. It was during those days that the budget for this year was adopted. So I don't know who's going to kill anyone for nothing and who's going to throw something at anyone for nothing. I am also sad that the Social Democrats, who have such dignified offices and positions as the Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the Chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs and the Minister for Agriculture, have failed to defend the interests of farmers in any way. I like honest and frank politicians. I liked the statement by the Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs that this was the compromise: if the Sociers agree that the Reform Party can reduce income tax by 1%, they will receive an increase in child benefits in return. However, I think that this compromise proposal was perhaps even wider: give up supporting farmers, let the road money be decoupled from obtaining excise duties on fuel, and then we will manage together in a friendly way until spring. I am concerned that the financing of roads was decoupled from the collection of excise duties on fuel. The result is a significant reduction in the money going to roads, and in 2015 very much of the necessary road work will not be done. This is essentially economic stupidity, because if the road safety plan is not complied with in time, then in future road repair will have to take into account significantly higher amounts. EUR 17 million for 2016 and 2017 were moved to 2015. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U337	Please, an extra three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U338	This shows once again how tense the financial situation is. The decoupling of road-saving money from excise duty gives the government another opportunity, as this money gives somewhere else to move. It is very unfortunate that the increase in school lunch allowance to EUR 1 has still not been approved, although, what is denied there, many local authorities are over-reaching the missing part. Yesterday's news said that children in some schools couldn't even get a free school lunch in middle school. However, at the same time, an additional EUR 12 million was found very simply for Estonian Air. What's the reason for this sum? Probably the need for some people to be able to fly very comfortably between Tallinn and Brussels. Knowing that this airline has been down for a long time and that the minus is growing, it can be said to be a pure burning of taxpayers' money. Finally, I would like to say that a percentage reduction in income tax is a big mistake. If this were not the case, this 70 million euros could do a great deal in the Estonian country, even to fix the border, not only to clean the bush. It would be possible to build the border facilities properly and say that our eastern border, which is also the Schengen border, must. The Police and Border Guard Board's salaries could be increased without the need to lay off the formations. You could really offer a free lunch for both middle school and upper secondary school students. There was already talk of farmers' support; there could also be more money to save tea so that we would not have to contribute more money in the future. In any case, it is difficult for me to support such a draft, and I am voting against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U339	George Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U340	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good fellows! We have already talked a lot about the figures for the 2015 state budget. It has been discussed at length and in depth whether the budget is in nominal or structural balance or in any way in deficit. All kinds of discussions are mostly useful, but I dare to predict that we will not reach a consensus in this case. All the more so since the final truth will only be revealed in the next year when it is clear how much revenue will actually be generated instead of the planned revenue. This, as we know, depends on the volatile economic growth of both the European Union and Estonia. Together, we are doing our best to make growth bigger than expected, but at the same time, we must certainly be prepared for darker scenarios. In fact, I do not want to dwell very long on the figures here today, because the content of the budget is far more important than that. On the positive side, I can point out some of the necessary changes. For example, an increase in family benefits, a symbolic increase in the income tax-free minimum and a step for which the Centre Party has not only stood, but for which it has also operated a school lunch is free of charge in schools and will extend to upper secondary school next year. Although the average old-age pension is awkwardly low, it still increases according to the pension index. Unfortunately, the good news is limited to that. The biggest concern in next year's budget is the harsh fact that the government coalition will maintain the cuts made during the crisis in the local government revenue base. In this way, the government will speed up the marginalization of Estonia's rural areas and reduce people's daily sense of security. Nor do I consider it right, as the previous speaker said, to reduce the rate of income tax to 20%, because it deepens the economic inequality of the Estonian people and does not significantly increase the well-being of anyone. At the same time, underfunding in the field of internal security continues and the issue of the remuneration of both kindergarten teachers and teachers remains unresolved. It should not be said that this is the sole domain of local governments, and according to the Local Government Organisation Act, the state must also come here to help. The sad list of omissions could go on for a long time, but I will briefly summarise my message. Unfortunately, the state budget for the coming year will clearly have more disadvantages than the pros. However, the biggest drawback, in my opinion, is that clear objectives and a clear vision of the state budget have not been recorded. What are the main challenges that will be addressed or at least mitigated next year? What is the country of Estonia by the end of 2015? Where do we want to go in five years, and what do we want to achieve in the next decade? To what extent will next year's budget help to increase the birth rate and reduce people's emigration? How do we turn Estonia's population back on track? Unfortunately, I have not heard a clear answer to any of these questions and it seems that the main issues have not even been put on the table. Was Indrek Neivelt right when he stated that the accountants have been running Estonia for the last ten years? I'm afraid there's much more truth in what he says than we like to admit. I am firmly convinced that with accounting alone, we will not be able to face any of Estonia's challenges. President Toomas Hendrik Ilves invited us to fix our homeland for his 100th anniversary in a speech on the 95th anniversary of the Republic. It has been almost two years since the 100th anniversary of the Republic of Estonia arrived in February 2018. How far have we come by making Estonia right? To what extent will the 2015 state budget help us achieve this goal? Can I have a minute?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U341	Are we on the right track at all? We cannot be satisfied with the development of our country until Estonia's population declines and thousands of people leave for a better life abroad each year. We should never accept a reduction in internal security or stand idly by to look at the periphery of rural areas. Unfortunately, I think that's exactly what we're doing. The Estonian state budget, every law and every decision must increase the well-being of every person and ensure the survival of the Estonian state and people. Very often we talk about their budgetary impact in the case of draft laws, but much less, if any, we talk about their impact on people's well-being. Unfortunately, I am not convinced that the 2015 state budget will take Estonia's life forward. However, the situation is, as we know, a setback and we cannot afford it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U342	One minute more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U343	Mailis Reps, please! Eight minutes with extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U344	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Today we are discussing again the state budget that we do every year. I would like to draw attention here to two issues that have been particularly topical in recent times. First, school food, of course. Looking at the media room, it stands out that a new discussion has arisen when discussing school food. Indeed, when we have been talking for more than three years about the fact that the price increase has zeroed out the prospect of free catering in schools and that almost half of the cost of school food has to be paid by municipalities, the debate remained largely at the level that we still have to analyse how much school food still costs and therefore draw conclusions. Today, we are pleased to note that free school meals are also going to be available in upper secondary school. At the same time, we have to say that the need for larger portions of food in high school forces us to calculate what we actually get for 78 cents. Certainly, at least the amount indicated by local authorities should be taken into account: school food actually costs about EUR 1 and a half on average. Last night, however, we saw on the news that a parish had set a precedent, stating that if a parent does not pay an extra 57 cents to 78 cents, his child would not receive school food. Their interpretation in Saku municipality is as simple as that. This is a dangerous precedent, because the state will either outsource or actually, as taxpayers, we will all allocate 78 cents for each child and there is no way to say that if a parent cannot or does not want to pay it a little less than half of the money, his or her child will not have a school night class thing. The first step is that we urgently need to think through all the possibilities that school food is really free, so that we can at least cover the cost of food. According to the local authorities, one portion, together with the wages of the caterers, costs around EUR one and a half, but with only food costs, the minimum cost is one euro. But on the other hand, we must certainly also analyse the possibilities of ensuring that the same drop reaches each child. Perhaps there are more and more municipalities who say that if the state does not give them more money or if the parent does not cover part of the cost of lunch, the child cannot eat. Our goal of reaching each child will then not be achieved. The second issue, which has also provided a great deal of discussion in recent days, is the decision of the Supreme Court on the financing of private education. In fact, a few years ago, as an amendment to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, many local authorities were suddenly obliged to pay the so-called cart money, i.e. to cover the costs associated with the private school building or its rental. It also triggered a rather serious dispute in the courts. In particular, some local authorities considered that this was not justified because the local government has very little opportunity to speak in the issuing of training permits, in the management of their schools or in the supervision of private education. The Supreme Court has now also said that such an obligation in the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act is unconstitutional. This provision needs to be reviewed as it cannot be implemented in this form. Now we're facing a dilemma. We are discussing the 2015 budget. As a minimum, 6.3 million additional costs should be included in next year's expenditure, but as the Commission's rapporteur emphasised today, the actual costs are over 13 million. These potential costs, which must be compensated for afterwards by local authorities, have not been taken into account, as the Supreme Court made very clear. The worst thing about solving this whole problem is definitely not doing anything. When we arrive at the third reading of the draft budget for 2015 and the needs for private education are not reflected there in either the education or financial reserves, we will have a strange situation. There are no obligations for local authorities in this form, as the provision has been declared unconstitutional. At the same time, the new measure is not designed and the victims are the same children who acquire private education at the choice of their parents, given that they are able to receive additional funding. There must certainly not be a situation in the education system where we have been having major disputes over a number of years, but still gave a message to private schools that they are very welcome in the Estonian educational landscape, but at the same time we leave private schools and children in them actually learning in the rain. We have the opportunity to quickly improve the situation here in the Riigikogu. We still have this opportunity today before the budget for next year is adopted. It is also possible to rapidly amend and supplement the basic school and upper secondary school law. There is certainly still a need to discuss the issue of school food before the third reading of the draft budget and, however, to find additional money to prevent such precedents from actually receiving free school food. We will, of course, thank the local authorities here who have managed to make the necessary money. However, as far as private education is concerned, we must certainly be able to ensure that children studying in private schools and private education do not suffer from a lack of money at all. After all, a large part of private schools deal with aspects of education that are not pursued or otherwise pursued by ordinary municipal or public education. We have a lot of special-need schools in private education, very small schools with alternative pedagogical approaches, classes aimed at children with emotional disorders, etc. These children should not suffer under any circumstances. I will limit myself to these two proposals here. Of course, educational issues cannot be overcome by autopsies or by teacher issues, by kindergarten issues, but since eight minutes is a very short time, I will limit myself to the two most topical issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U345	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U346	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, we are discussing the most important draft law of this year, the 2015 draft state budget. It is the state budget that directly affects how our people's lives will improve or perhaps not improve at all next year. It is the budget that will give impetus to the development of our economy next year or leave it in a continuing stagnation, which is essentially a decline. It is the budget that can improve the competitiveness of our country or, again, have a negative impact on it. We have heard praises from the social democrats, both in this Chamber and beyond, about the multiple increase in child benefits. The warm lunch requested by the Centre Party for years will at least seemingly reach upper secondary school students in the coming years. Why did I say apparently? But because the government coalition acted as always: the decision was formally made, without forgetting to praise itself to heaven, but the money was foreseen in the budget about as much as the mice should be fed. In order for children to be eaten, local authorities have to pay extra from their already thin wallets. To sum up this share, however, it must be said that some groups of people will be able to manage this budget a little better next year. Next, I will try to find lines that will help boost the economy and boost economic activity. However, there are many issues that need to be disappointed. Every year we have discussed the activities of the Development Fund in this Chamber. We have noted the remarkable work done by the Development Fund in terms of monitoring economic development and venture capital placements. The speech has been that the Riigikogu, as the founder of the development fund, should make more use of the potential of the fund in the day-to-day work of its committees. I am currently neglecting misdemeanours in the work of the head of the penultimate development fund, after all, it was a rather short period. The history of the Development Fund is much longer. It's like we're trying to get more from the Development Fund, but we're cutting the agency's budget. I am amazed to see that the already poor financing of the Development Fund will be reduced again next year and this time by 16.6%. The direction towards the extinction of the development fund, in other words, if you look at this draft budget, is clearly taken, it will seem that economic development in the long term simply does not interest our government coalition. Next example. We see very nice lines in the budget explanatory memorandum. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U347	Enterprise Estonia is one of the European Union's Structural Funds implementing institutions in Estonia, being the main provider of enterprise-oriented support and development programmes. EAS is active in five fields: increasing the competitiveness of Estonian companies in foreign markets, involving foreign direct investment, developing tourism exports and domestic tourism, developing technology and innovative products and services, developing Estonian companies and business environment, as well as raising overall entrepreneurial awareness. It's a beautiful pathetic set of noble goals, isn't it? Let's look at the figures on how the government has interpreted these goals. We can see that the amounts allocated to EAS will decrease by a total of EUR 10.8 million, or 13.56%, in 2015 compared to this year. Returning to what was said in the introduction, there are two examples of them still in the draft budget, not all of them being able to stop in the absence of time to conclude that the state has chosen the economic stagnation or even the decline of the economy next year. This leads to one serious conclusion: it is an illustrious and irresponsible election year budget. However, in the context of the stagnation of the economy, great social benefits are not sustainable and are meant to be short-term, because in the long term they have no financial cover if they are not supported by the economy. I'm sure there's one more thing I want to stop at. On the revenue side of the draft budget, it is foreseen to withdraw 20 million euros of dividends from AS Elering. Since 2009, transmission network charges have been increased by 42% for electricity sales. The transport of electricity to the consumer in Estonia is probably the most expensive in the European Union, with a total of 10.8 euros per megawatt-hour. By comparison: in Finland it is EUR 7 and in Sweden EUR 2; in Germany it is EUR 1 per megawatt-hour. The need to finance EstLink 1, EstLink 2 and the construction of the emergency station for Kiisa was cited as a reason for the constant increase in core network charges. There was a promise that if these major investments were made, the tariffs on network charges would decrease. We know that all these pre-listed objects have been built, and I think the money will be left over, so it can be taken out as dividends. Elering has been made into a budget-hole filling pump. This is one of the biggest hogs against consumers, because Elering, the core network owner, does not produce anything. He's gonna scrape up that money in the form of the network fees we're all paying instead of cutting off the network fees when you don't need any more money to invest. If we add further electricity excise duties to the price of electricity and to the largest transmission charges in Europe, which we have four and a half times as much as the demand in the European Union, we will understand why our energy-intensive businesses are becoming increasingly less competitive. In conclusion, this budget hampers economic development and its competitiveness. The low economic growth proposed in the projections next year will remain simply a forecast, which is unlikely to be a reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U348	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U349	Lauri Laasi.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U350	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Today we are discussing issues relating to next year's state budget, trying, as usual, to understand what is hidden between the budget lines and which lines are even comparable. As several MPs have already said, the budget explanatory statement is inadequate and confusing and to demand that we draw fundamental conclusions on this basis in this Chamber is, to put it mildly, inadequate. However, what is most unfortunate about the budget is that it does not know where it is going to take us and whether it is going to take us at all. Just as the economy is stagnating, there is no great prospect of development in the state budget. The elections that are approaching most are the elections, where we cannot speak of a very long-term perspective. In part, even the proposals of the Centre Party have been implemented, which the parties currently in power have still laundered at the beginning. Later, however, these ideas have been developed as their own. Therefore, there are certainly important points in the budget that the Centre Party Group accepts with some concessions. Examples include school food support for upper secondary school students, increased child benefit and partially established funeral allowance. What is most incomprehensible about the budget is why the income tax rate is decreasing in a situation where the state is desperately looking for revenue. I am thinking here of the bureaucratic declaration of €1000 bills, the reduction of VAT refunds on company cars, the abolition of the excise tax credit on fuel oil, etc. I understand that the reduction in the income tax rate is a promise from the Reform Party of the Ages, but times have changed. It is sad to note that the party has not realised that lowering income tax may no longer be the smartest step. By lowering the tax rate, EUR 70 million will not be collected by the Treasury next year. If this amount does not say anything at first glance, I would point out, for example, that subsidies for people with disabilities and their carers will amount to nearly EUR 65 million from next year's budget. However, when we are talking about the employment reform for people with disabilities, which, along with all its shortcomings, has just been approved in this Chamber, we can see that, in fact, this reform is a missed opportunity. According to the Centre Party Group, the reduction in the rate of income tax should be abandoned, and this is what we have proposed for next year's budget. We believe that the reduction in income tax is a pointless step in the current economic stagnation, and this hinders the development of the country. Of the EUR 70 million, there would be enough to eliminate a number of bottlenecks and, to the exact same amount, we have also proposed amendments. The main of these are the provision of free public transport across Estonia, the increase in school food support, the introduction of additional support for farmers and the increase in funding for local roads. We are in a situation where the governance of the Reform Party can become an obstacle to the development of the country. The budget for next year will not convince us otherwise either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U351	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U352	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Estonian farmers expect the Riigikogu to support them fully through the state budget as promised by the European Union. Our farmers' subsidies must be equivalent to those of other countries, only then will we be able to compete on the European Union market. Farmers have clearly said: in order for Estonian agriculture to be viable, they need to be supported with 23 million euros. However, the state budget on the table does not foresee this. At the same time, other Baltic countries have promised to help their farmers with transitional support. If our government intends to pursue such an agricultural policy, the Estonian farmer will not be able to compete even on the Latvian and Lithuanian markets, not to mention the wealthier countries of the European Union. The Estonian government could learn from the Latvian and Lithuanian governments how to protect its farmers as Estonian food producers. Good friends! Estonia's agriculture is in crisis and it is time for the government parties, the Reform Party and the social democrats to admit it to themselves. The crisis was born because of political games and, as a result, our dairy sector has been hit hard. The price of milk has fallen to such a low level that farms barely make ends meet. I believe that none of us would like to see a repeat of the situation over ten years ago, where farmers were forced to simply take some 30,000 dairy cows to the slaughterhouse because of the Russian crisis. African swine fever also reached Estonia in August. The pig farmers describe their situation as a constant living on the coals, and they must do all they can to prevent the plague from reaching their farms. The fact that the Reform Party does not care about Estonian farmers and the people's food table made clear the previous Prime Minister. And the current Head of Government has not brought new energy to the agricultural sector. Rather, it continues its predecessor's agricultural policy, which is less important than other sectors. It is amazing to hear from the representatives of the garment government that farmers can only be supported at the expense of children's benefits. This contrast is very unethical. But the sadder thing is that the Minister of Agriculture, Ivari Padar, cannot or does not want to stand up for farmers. He agreed that Estonian farmers from the 2015 state budget would not be supported with a possible EUR 23 million. The state budget on the table is clearly the face of the Reform Party, behind which the tiny ears of the Social Democrats appear. From a distance, it may even seem that the Reform Party alone is leading the government, so there are no signs. The Centre Party is certainly not in favour of a government agricultural policy that puts our farmers in a much worse position on the European Union market than its competitors. The Estonian farmer deserves to be supported by the state with an additional EUR 23 million. Let's do it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U353	I hope the previous call didn't go under the table, but stayed on the table. Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U354	Thank you for the right to speak. Ladies and gentlemen, I stand here on the platform, I look at this hall, and I wonder if this is really the parliament of the country for which we stood in the Baltic Way, which we defended and whose recognition we went to Moscow to ask for from foreign embassies. This does not seem to be the right Parliament. It's like the state is still here, but the Riigikogu is a stranger. As a journalist, I saw heated debates in this house in the early 1990s in order to improve Estonia. But what do we see today? No offense, but we see a tired, indifference-stricken hall where there are no more people. I don't blame it on the vigilantes, they're sitting in their room listening to one ear what's going on here. I understand that. There's no point in coming to this hall, because there's nothing going on here for a long time. After all, it is the same important vote for the government, or Reform Party, that brings people to the hall. Parliament is no longer needed for Estonia; the state budget or any other attribute can be taken directly to the government and thus ensure that squirrels remain in power. I am not going to read out the specific figures on the budget we are discussing today, much has been said about them. But, dear people, a 70-cent school lunch is a real shame! Our buffet's open now, go see what you can get for 70 cents! You can't even get a bowl of porridge. Maybe they'll give it without money if you go in there with a finger of 70 cents. But if the Estonian Centre Party is proposing not yet good for the students, but let's say a little better to offer a one-euro willow, then this amendment will be voted down. It's embarrassing! Why, ladies and gentlemen, are we wasting our time and making proposals if no opposition proposal goes through again? I thought it might work this time. Now there are social democrats who carry red flowers in the coalition, and they are supposed to protect young people. But take your finger! They do not, either, even though they were sitting in the opposition here, making a loud voice that the work of the Riigikogu is being interrupted by a government roller that runs over everything. But now you're sitting on a roller coaster. Perhaps it is only in the bathroom that some of the sots have the courage to admit to their colleagues that they have to do everything the way the Tavi Clothe government wants and demands. But the garment itself is still a young man, he doesn't know exactly what he wants. He is delighted to fly a helicopter and be photographed at a military airfield against NATO aircraft. Squirrels have long been uninterested in the fate and well-being of the Estonian people. They don't care about farmers, children and pensioners. Squirrels are only interested in remaining in power after 1 March next year. The election victory, of course, will be achieved by electronic voting by declaring the threat of war, and by intimidation of the people it will be done to support the red warlocks. So the Reform Party is confident of its victory, and that is why they are not in this Chamber today. But my speech got serious and sad. I don't really want to be like this. I want to be happier. And I have some good news to tell you. This is indeed good news, which concerns everyone in this Chamber, because all of us are taking part in an election race, who is already taking part in it, who is just about to do it. I have really good news for you. It was hung up on the Postimees website some time ago. What am I reading? Our Prime Minister, a powerful young man, will gladly inform everyone of this text so that all parties can make their own election clip at Ämari airport if they care and if they want to. So, ladies and gentlemen, good luck to everyone! You can go to Ämari Airport because Taavi Rõivas promised it publicly today in the e-publications of one of our biggest newspapers. So everybody fight for victory, support the Reform Party at the Ämari warfield! This is the message that the Prime Minister sent us on the day of the second reading of the draft state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U355	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U356	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu, three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U357	Ladies and gentlemen, and all those who will ever read today's verbatim from historical records! Yes, as my colleague Heimar said, there are things in the Riigikogu that interest the people, and there are things that do not care. When we had the draft law on cohabitation in the debate, the stands were full of people on the balcony. Today we are discussing such an important issue as next year's budget, but the hall is half empty and there is no one kibbled. Well, what the hell. The budget is a budget for every country must have a budget, something must be done on the basis of something. How this budget was put together, the ghost knows. It is not even clear to us whether he is in balance or in deficit. Here we are talking about nominal deficits and structural deficits of 100 million nominal, with a structural deficit of 300 million. Whether or not the Committee on Monetary Affairs was aware of the size of the deficit was not clear. In any case, the European Commission made this matter known to the people of Estonia. The question arises as to whether the Estonian specialists who put together the budget did not know it or knew it and kept quiet, or whether the Committee on Monetary Affairs knew and kept quiet, or whether it was put together in Brussels. They know more about our budget. Who knows how it really was? You can see clearly, however, by trying to visualize everything in an extremely positive way. Our growth rate is 1% and it is excellent, it is very good. There is a similar tendency in many other areas of life. In medicine, for example, there were once medical records of people who recorded how sick a person was, what diagnoses were given to him, and what medical treatment he needed. Now we have a medical history. It's as if the older the person and the more disease, the healthier he is. Work capacity or inability to work reform is exactly the same story. Before, if we had people who had a lack of ability to work, a loss of ability to work, or some kind of disability, then now their condition has been assessed in a completely different way. If a man had one leg missing before, and it was very bad, now he has one leg left, and it's great. This is how we try to praise ourselves by all means. We offer all kinds of slogans on how to move forward, and still let everyone know with a loud voice how successful we are. It is an excellent slogan that we want to reach the top five European countries, almost lost and said that the last five countries. It's a much better slogan than it was in its day that Communism would arrive in 1961. At the time, a specific deadline was given and it is very dangerous. But we're moving into the richest five. When our new government came to power, led by Taavi Kõivas, I was not ashamed and asked the same question as Prime Minister Ansip repeatedly heard: is this slogan really true? 'Yes,' said the Javier in the garment. 'Sure! Still the richest of the five! ' And that's where we'll march. You know, this thing really looks like a Chinese circus number where a Chinese guy walks on a rope and he's got five Chinese on his back, and there's a boiling teapot on his top. And all these people are looking and clapping. More or less the same looks like our budget. In drawing up this, it has actually been taken into account that we are being charged taxes. What, for example, is happening in health care? Our tax money is used to support hospitals that pay for their box expenses, utilities, construction, repairs. The fuel needs to be bought, the electricity also at the top they pay excise duty and VAT. So taxes on taxes. Now that fuel excise is being increased, our home expenses will increase by 38% from May next year. Taxes on taxes again, because people pay home expenses after they have paid their national taxes. This thing looks like a Chinese circus, and it is a circus! Our people are considered wealthy. We have houses, cars, mobile phones twice as many people as we have in Estonia, but they are all in debt. If you take these debts into account, there's a huge amount of money circulating in people's hands, but it's a minus sign. Actually, it's a plus or a minus, of course, very important to the accountant. It's a really good amount of money that's going on and on and on, but is there anyone who gets full of it? And of all the money that's going on in the budget, and for which we don't know exactly what's going on there, the children's food money will be allocated 78 cents a day to each of them. By the way, I had the same clever idea as my colleague, Heimar Leng, to go to our cafeteria or diner and ask the women working there what I get for 78 cents. But, you know, I just got embarrassed. I have a good relationship with our cafeteria staff, and I'm not gonna make a fool of them. Unlike members of the Riigikogu, they are serious people and do a good job for their salaries, which I still mock them. But the question is, of course, interesting where the 78 cents are taken from. I'd expect nutritionists to put together an example menu, calculate calorie, proteins, fats, carbohydrates, finger-tip vitamins, and then calculate how much it costs. But surely it was done that some wise accountant found some amount, distributed it to the children, and please take 78 cents, eat, be happy! Just as Christ distributed two fish to the people at the top of the mountain, and five loaves of bread were all eaten and happy. Well, unfortunately, the Estonian people do not look full-fed and happy for some reason. It looks miserable! Once, once, another target group comes here to complain to the Riigikogu about its concerns, but it is not much help. And the circus goes on and on. You know, it's the old truth that people need circuses and bread. If there's no bread, give the people a circus, maybe he'll forget to ask for bread. I guess that's what it looks like right now, the rope is pulled up and Taavi's garment is dancing on it, the whole government one after the other on his back and on the top of the budget instead of the last teapot. People don't think they can go to the end like this, everyone in the circus is watching this whole thing fall down. But he falls or he doesn't fall, it's not that. The Centre Party doesn't want a circus. The Centre Party doesn't want to go along with this circus, nor does it want to look at it. We would like the people to have loaves instead of circuses of the real bread that would be full of both children and old people, mothers and fathers, the entire people of Estonia, all the people of Estonia, and that life would be humane. For life to be the way we wanted to be standing in the Baltic Way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U358	Please, three more minutes for Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U359	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U360	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I do not see a dramatic problem just in what the European Commission says about the structural balance of the state budget. I think the problems are deeper and, in particular, clearly highlighted them here a week ago by Auditor General Alar Karis, stressing that the balance of public finances is commendable and good, but this in itself does not guarantee us that the Estonian state is in order, that the administration of the state is in order and that our development is sustainable. It is not already because the growth in the income of our municipalities is much slower than the growth in the revenue of the central government. At the same time, there are increasing responsibilities for municipalities. How to fill them, there is no clarity. There is no clarity with regard to the reform of the local government or the reform of the state. A few more marginal notes before I go to my main topic. I must admit that I have very rarely left this Chamber in agreement with the Centre Party, but as far as the consistent reduction of income tax is concerned as the tax policy obsession of the Reform Party, it has probably started to hinder Estonia's development. It would have been much more reasonable to increase the tax-free minimum rate and thus to ensure greater solidarity and a more uniform distribution of income. In society, the gap has become too big. In this place, I must also shake my head that I have been in the process of making decisions that have not been very wise. The second remark, which repeats here from year to year, is that the presentation of our state budget is cryptic, it is difficult to read. Every time it comes out in some way, some colleagues have mentioned it today, and they also mentioned it at first reading. Yes, from year to year, when we study the draft state budget as members of the Riigikogu, we learn to find what interests us. But the state budget should be a public document for the general public and as such it should be much easier to understand. But tell me how long you talk, nothing will change. Now, however, the main thing I wanted to talk about, and this is, of course, my amendments, together with five pieces, all of which, gloriously, ended with votes 0 to 0 in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. More important than the purpose, it was to improve border guards, agriculture, the educational costs of municipalities, or partly simply to improve the balance of the budget, was a source of cover. I'm sorry, frankly, that these proposals are not coming into the hall. Given the confusion that was in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I think they might go through in this Chamber with Herkel's 1-0 vote. But this result 0: 0 in itself is both ridiculous, but on the other hand a pretty good result, because before people change their mind about a matter, there is a period of confusion, and then perhaps a new view is taken after a certain time. I hope that, in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, this confusion and, in view of the future, hopefully, the constructive confusion that I have asked the analysis department to do in the summer. This is about funding parties from the state budget in the countries of the European Union. This data is hard to access, it took a long time to carry out the survey and it is far from perfect. But we have 18 countries, some countries are missing information. By the way, there are still a few countries in the European Union where political parties are not financed at all from the state budget. Data on 18 countries generally refer to the very rare occurrence of funding systems such as those in Estonia, and there is no direct payments to this extent. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U361	In my opinion, a very illustrative table has been drawn up which shows the proportion of state budget support compared to GDP. A simple calculation has been made of the amount of 100000 GDP per euro allocated from the national budget in a given country to political parties. It is true that this data is as of 2010. Recent data would probably change some things, but certainly not proportions. What do we see from this table? Estonia is in its first position with 42 euros of GDP per 100000 euros, the next country is Lithuania, which is two and a half times behind us, even more: the amount is 15.8 euros. Poland and Austria have a third and fourth place with EUR 14.9. It's a totally screaming disproportation. Not to mention that usually the sums that political parties receive from the state budget have some sort of purpose. But I am not going to dwell on this issue, although it might be appropriate to highlight more orders of magnitude, which show that countries with a much higher population will allocate smaller sums to their political parties than Estonia's own budget. I believe that members of the Riigikogu have reason to examine this study. This study can be further developed, even in the context of a collective appeal, which should be discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U362	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U363	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U364	Honourable Chairman! Happy remaining listeners! It is clear that the one-year budget cannot solve all the problems facing the country, but there are clear priorities in the budget plan for next year. They are an increase in people's well-being, an increase in confidence, a strengthening of security and defence capabilities. I would like to emphasise once again here that the draft budget has been drawn up conservatively. Let it be confirmed that the recommendations of the Fiscal Council at Eesti Pank have been met. I do not think that there are many countries in the current global economic environment where it is possible to increase pensions and increase the income of families with children and those receiving public pay. At the same time, we will be able to reduce the cost of labour taxes, lower the rate of income tax and unemployment insurance contributions and increase the tax-free minimum, with more money in the hands of people. In previous discussions, there was a complaint that the budget did not seem to have high objectives, no view of the future, etc. The Chairman of the Monetary Commission stressed this in response to investments in research development, EAS and KredEx measures, investment in health care and education. All these investments create growth potential. That is, of course, correct, but I will add one very important aspect to this. The economic environment is already improving due to the fact that next year the structure of tax revenues will change, the share of labour taxes will decrease. The economic environment can and must continue to be improved as labour taxes go down. Certainly, the current budgetary plan is a step forward in this direction. Of course, the business environment, the stability of the economic environment, the predictability of economic and tax policies, on the one hand, and the overall tax burden, on the other hand, are important for businesses, which will remain at 32.7% of GDP. Of course, it cannot be overlooked that the current global security environment requires contributions to both external and internal security. In order to cope with internal and external risks, the budget plan makes a clear contribution to both defence and internal security, in addition to investments in this area, the wages of our safety-guards will also increase. It is certainly to be welcomed that the Riigikogu is making substantial changes to the budget plan presented by the government in order to improve it. However, looking at the amendments tabled by the opposition, as in previous years, the question arises immediately of where the money comes from to cover these proposals. I will give an example where it is proposed to reduce the government reserve fund by almost half to find the source of the proposed changes and also to improve the budgetary position. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U365	However, it must be taken into account that there must be money in the reserve fund for unpredictable cases, and that is simply for technical reasons the sums of the Rescue Board, so there is no way to take ten million out of it, as proposed in one of the amendments. I also find it misleading to propose a 5% cut in management costs for ministries and other government agencies. It would, of course, be nice to show that we are cutting the cost of ministries, limiting the cost of the year-end, but, for example, in the case of the Road Administration, this would have meant taking away EUR 3.5 million in road savings. Not to mention that many ministries would have no IT developments, the money needed for monitoring, but also the money needed for research and wage increases. In no way can it be considered justified to amend the Income Tax Act already adopted in 2011 in order to increase the income tax rate by 1%, as proposed in the opposition's amendments. The Committee on Monetary Affairs could not support the fact that the tax burden, including the burden of labour taxes, would be aggravated by the economic environment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U366	The speaker asks for more time. Please, an extra three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U367	Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U368	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The State Budget Act, which we are discussing today, which organises the life of 2015, has received its own resounding and praising names from its authors. Yes, there is certainly something positive about this, but it must not be forgotten that it is also a budget of word-breakingness. It is precisely in this budget that there should have been additional money for the maternity pension, but there is not. This budget thus confirms the unique situation in re-independence Estonia, where the pension previously promised by law is reduced. After all, in 2012 we passed a law in the Riigikogu, which gave more value to the work of raising children and provided for an additional pension for one parent of the family, regardless of when the child was born. So far, we had a strange situation in which the supplementary pension was calculated only for children born during the occupation. Under the law adopted, all children started to be taken into account in January 2013, and current pensioners receive an additional pension for each child for two years of retirement, i.e. approximately EUR 10 per month. As a general rule, it was decided that this supplementary pension would be paid by the mother, since she had been absent from work for some time as a result of raising her children and therefore received a lower pension. However, the supplementary pension may also be granted to the father, and in any case the pension supplement should be converted into the name of the father after the mother has left the earthly life. The current Act also received a letter that, as of 2015, each child will receive an additional pension in the currency of one more retirement year. This promise, which would concern 226000 pensioners next year, was already made in 2012 and, of course, we also included the money that would be spent there in the country's budget strategy. However, we are now facing a situation where reform parties and social democrats decided to postpone the payment of the pension supplement to parents for three years and thus reduce the pensions promised. This means that an average family who has raised two children takes away 120 euros a year. For the three years of the deferral period, this means, on average, EUR 360 of the money taken from the family. The representatives of the coalition have pointed out that the amount is not large and its withdrawal does not significantly affect the ability of pensioners to cope. Come on! Is it worth deceiving pensioners and breaking the word given by the state because of this so-called small money?! It is noteworthy that we were able to avoid reducing pensions even in the worst of times of economic crisis. However, just now that the major crisis is over and wages are slowly rising, the current government union has decided to deceive pensioners and to withdraw a total of EUR 86 million from the pensions that they have been promised in three years. I would like to remind you that this step of cheating on people was considered by the Socats and Reform Party to be so important, even the main issue facing the government, that at the beginning of the summer you linked the draft law on parental pension deferral with the government's vote of confidence. It is particularly obvious that the government asked to be trusted in order to be able to deceive pensioners. I do not consider it possible to support the state budget, which finally fixed the country's treachery to more than 260000 pensioners from whom this additional money was taken away. This is an disrespectful attitude toward the most important work our parents have done to raise children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U369	Margus Tsahkna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U370	Thank you very much. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U371	Please, an extra three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U372	Good ambassadors! I know most of you are watching this debate watching TV in your office, and that's why it's not so bad to talk to an empty hall right now. I want to talk about one specific issue concerning the state budget. In particular, the Fatherland and Res Publica Association have tabled Amendment 16, according to which we want to allocate EUR 300000 for the drafting and implementation of the legislation necessary for the creation of a single parent maintenance fund. This amount would increase the labour and management costs of the Ministry of Social Affairs. At the same time, it would be possible to prepare, in addition to the law, a part of the implementation and to ensure the necessary information to ensure that this maintenance fund is put into effect. I did not come here to waste your time on the floor, but you could, along with your hard work, for a moment before voting on the amendments, focus on what I am saying. Indeed, the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs here defended the budget for the following year for quite a long time. However, he misunderstood the content of the above proposal. The Chairman of the Monetary Commission realized that for this EUR 300000 this fund is intended to be launched next year, but the content of the IRL proposal is that we have given a draft to the Riigikogu procedure, which will instruct the Government of the Republic to develop legislation on this fund during the next year and to implement it from 1 January 2016. A similar draft was handed over here by the Social Democratic Party Group, but after the new coalition, they probably decided to withdraw it under the pressure of the coalition partner. After the IRL Group re-submitted a similar draft, both the Social Democrats and the Centre Party announced that they would support this draft. This means that the Riigikogu will discuss this draft before Christmas, hopefully, but perhaps at the beginning of the new year. This is a one-reading draft on a single decision, and it will be adopted here if all political parties stick to their positions. As a result, the government would be obliged to draft a maintenance fund next year and implement it from 1 January 2016. The Chairman of the Monetary Commission indicated that these costs could not be one-off. We cannot foresee, as proposed by the IRL amendment, a reduction of EUR 300000 in the government reserve. Reserves cannot be spent for this purpose as they can be spent on one-off costs. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs! The content of the IRL amendment is that a one-off budget allocation is made so that the government can draw up a draft maintenance fund on the basis of the decision of the Riigikogu and prepare it to be implemented on 1 January 2016. During the debate on the 2016 budget next autumn, however, we need to provide the relevant amounts according to how the government has planned the day-to-day operation of the maintenance fund. Then we need to find a source of cover, which is not a one-off but a continuous one, ensuring that the fund functions properly. Why do you need a living fund? We have understood this by all of us who are in this Chamber, perhaps except for the Reform Party. In fact, one in four children in Estonia lives with a single parent. This was revealed in the public poll. To date, the amount of maintenance claims is already more than EUR 10 million, and this is the amount owed to specific children by parents who do not pay maintenance payments. And our duty as representatives of society is to ensure that these children receive monthly allowance. In other words, the fund would take over those claims for money assigned to another parent and collect these amounts using state coercive and motivational methods. That is why I appeal to you with a very specific request before we vote on the amendments. Amendment 16 was not supported by the Committee on Finance. From the point of view of the chairman of the Monetary Commission, we have also heard the argument that this is a source of cover, since only one-off costs could be covered from the government reserve fund. However, since the Committee on Monetary Affairs misunderstood that the amount intended to prepare a living fund is continuous, annual, it was therefore not supported. In fact, the Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs is right: from the government reserve we can allocate money to one-off costs. But this concrete proposal, which has been put forward by the IRL Group and which has also been supported in words by the Social Democrats and the Centre Party Group, envisages a one-off expenditure. And if you, dear members of the Riigikogu, are voting on this amendment, please do not react automatically to the words that the IRL Group has proposed this! Do not press the red button or the green button immediately, but think intently about what I have just said before voting on Amendment 16. We can actually also provide a financial cover for this decision, which we will most likely accept this year if you all keep your promises. That was the point of my speech. I hope it got through the TV channel to your offices, where you're all staying and listening to what's being discussed here. I would like to remind you once again that I was talking about Amendment 16, which concerns the amount of legislation on the maintenance fund and its implementation, which would be paid out of the government reserve once. As you understand, the total amount of the state budget is EUR 300000, a very small amount. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U373	Thomas Tõniste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U374	Please, an extra three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U375	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U376	For my part, I would also like to say a few thoughts about the draft state budget, which could be called 'I want everyone to like the 2015 Riigikogu elections'. Unfortunately, this budget does not have a more ambitious objective. The money will be distributed a little here, a little there, but it will not offer important solutions that will support economic growth, significantly reduce the tax burden on labour, help create new jobs and really improve people's livelihoods. I am concerned that after the IRL has been played out unsportsibly out of the government, the government's debt has increased. Although the budget will grow by 7% next year, i.e. by half a billion euros, the state budget has still been reduced by 100 million euros. According to a recent assessment by the European Commission, the structural government deficit will be 0.7% of GDP in the next two years. Nor am I comforted by the statements of the coalition's top politicians that the European Commission does not know how to calculate, but we have good accountants here. With the new basic law on the state budget adopted in spring, we have established that the state budget must be structurally balanced or in surplus. Several experts have come to the conclusion that the structural budget surplus for the years 2014 to 2015 has been estimated to be higher than in reality in the Estonian Government. Therefore, the IRL proposed a reduction of EUR 10 million in government expenditure in the budget to help improve the balance of the state budget and to make public administration more effective. It is sad that the party that led the government for years has become a brake on Estonia's development. Perhaps the best example is administrative reform. Years ago, people were intimidated that when the administrative reform was implemented, villages would run empty. It's been years now, there's no administrative reform, but the villages are still empty. At last, the general public, as well as most members of the government and the Riigikogu, as well as most political parties, have realised that administrative reform is inevitable. There's no point burning money with a big flame. It is sad that these tens of millions of euros could have been directed to those who really need it, teachers, policemen, etc. Here, it is acknowledged that the share of labour taxes is decreasing, while there is no willingness to recognise that indirect costs are increasing. This 1% tax reduction is actually the result of the work of the IRL and Reform Party coalition and previously voted in law. But does it really bring more jobs that are hoped for and expected? If we really want more jobs to come, we need to review the social tax rate and bring it down seriously. The tax burden on low-paid people should also be reduced. This would actually help create more jobs. I can't let go of the sport. The Reform Party, which has run the Ministry of Culture for years, has completely neglected sport. How long have we been talking about underestimating the work of coaches, but it is only now that the budget for next year provides for a small amount of support for them. Thanks for putting it in at least! I really hope this is the first step. Coaches who work as grateful as our teachers should be properly rewarded. Sport grants to sports federations from the state budget have also been stagnating for years. This small amount is to be managed year after year by talented young athletes, with top performance and Olympic medals. I hope that the new elections will bring power to those who want, dare and know how to make decisions that will help Estonia to move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U377	Ene Ergma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U378	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, I asked the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs whether there was something in the 2015 state budget that supports the country's strategic objectives in view of its distant goals and economic development. Just as the ex-minister did not answer my similar question at first reading, I did not get it from the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs today. Ladies and gentlemen, During my political life, I have always tried to find parallels between society and the laws that exist in nature. Why? Let us remember that we are a species of mammals and are certainly part of nature. This drawing of parallels is not very original. You can find very interesting articles and monographs in the world's press, where this approach is widely used, and even used by social scientists. I admit that, in the eyes of you and the Estonian media, this approach is not very ambitious, but I nevertheless take the courage to bring me another parallel. An outstanding 19th-century mathematician Emden has once said that the major factory in nature plays the role of director of entropy, who determines the direction of the process, but the law of energy sustainability is an accountant who keeps incomes and expenses in balance. When I first read this piece of Emden's mind, it seemed almost unacceptable to me because, as a physicist, I have always felt a reverence for the law on the preservation of energy, but in this sense, he is placed on the head to be an accountant. But thinking seriously and for a long time about what the famous mathematician said, I've come to grips with him. In order for progress to be made, directors-visions are needed to determine the direction of the process. A balance between income and expenditure is necessary, but it is also necessary to think about developments. We can see the same picture in our small Estonian society, as we are clinged to the balance between incomes and expenses. And if this balance doesn't really exist, then we use the words "nominal" and "structured" balance. There's always an explanation where there's a balance. But my question, which I cannot answer myself, is how to ensure the development of our society. That is, in my opinion, the most important question. Who would take on the role of entropy in our little society? This is a question of questions, but I think that this is really the most important because it will determine the development of the country in the future. Accountants may be, they come and go, but where the country is developing is very important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U379	Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U380	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Seven and a half years in the Riigikogu is behind me. This year, when I vote on the budget, I can act like a truly free man with a party ticket in his pocket, but behind whom the name of the party is not written. In fact, the budgetary procedure has been one of the most worrying things in my political career over all these long years. Looks like all top politicians are losing their heads in the budgetary process. The problem is very simple. People who are used to managing business every day or who live a relatively honest and normal life in Estonian society understand very clearly that money is never enough to be needed for everything. Even less money, as much as necessary, will be left to the Estonian state. It's for the simple reason that we, with our little tribute baskets, are carrying this money together, and our economy is getting cold feet. Why did I touch it a little bit like going out of my mind? The problem is that I have always asked myself, in different positions in the opposition, if I could decide for myself if I could do something completely different. The honest answer is, you can't really. For this simple reason, whether I'm sitting in this row or in the second row, the amount of resources doesn't depend. So it must be acknowledged that going to the Socialist Government broke down one of my modest political careers. Reform partyers acted as a rock against the Isamaa and Res Publica Alliance, imposing on them their vicious dogmatic truths and trying to take the opportunity, essentially, to show their true power in the coalition. To get rid of them, the Snots were given a chance. But, dear bastards, this opportunity was only given to you for a moment! You don't have a second chance. For this reason, I dare say today that a good result from the point of view of the Estonian state budget could come at a time when, in one year, such a miracle happens that the state budget procedure sits down without dividing the opposition and the coalition and tries to agree on something. I'm asking for three more minutes, I'm starting to think so well!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U381	Look, we don't have the point of blaming each other, especially not in the budgetary process. We know the resource is limited. In fact, it is time to start thinking about what happens to our economy and how to ensure fiscal sustainability. The 2015 budget was really put in place in the course of relatively short coalition negotiations in the spring, and there were also the first beginnings of looking at a person with a face, which is clearly in favour of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union. The Union of Fatherland and Res Publica also shares these values in order to become, in a sense, a better party when it comes to the elections, especially by leaning towards the centre of the right, and also by addressing poorer people. We are now in a situation where we are adopting this budget. We're going to the election cycle, but there's actually a war going on around us. And in the case of war, it is such a bad thing that it forces countries to jump from one situation to another in a faster and more unpleasant way than we want. As we know, during the war, all contracts will cease to be valid. It's called the force majesty situation. But if the war is to be prevented, it will have a profound effect on the economy. And it will also have a direct effect on the basket to carry the budget money together. And that's why I, too, dared to ask in the course of the proceedings today, but what happens if... During the 2009 crisis, it was clear that all this would pass if we acted sensibly. And then we acted sensibly. But the current situation is that sanctions, which also point to the crisis, have a very bad impact on the economy. We cannot regulate them for the simple reason that their regulation is a collective decision of the European Union. The Estonian economy, unfortunately, is not among the players with its potential, and so we are, in a sense, runners. I'm gonna be scared of what's gonna happen next. I am not deliberately attacking this current budget because it was not possible to do much better. Probably no one would have done better. But once again, I dream of now starting to think intensely about what happens next. One problem, for example, which also relates to the budget, is leaving the role of our farmers' orphans in this budget. It is foolish in this sense that even in the event of the deepest crisis, when we have preserved our rural areas, we have known that the Estonian people will succeed. We can protect our country and we can make a relatively good living in this country by eating normally and building on our economy. Big slips in the rest of the world can't really affect us. We should all acknowledge that the time is ripe for a deeper debate. The Fatherland and Res Publica Union, who first came out with the exemption of low-paid people, showed me, who I have just joined this party, in a positive way, a face that I did not expect at all. In fact, I think all the political forces are realizing that the time for change is at hand, but they do not understand that change is the easiest to come through agreements. Do I have any more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U382	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U383	You see, the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu intervenes in politics because he does not understand that I have the right to speak what I want, especially at second reading. But, ladies and gentlemen, I will tell you once again that the state of play of the 2015 budget is obviously not good. What he's built on isn't gonna be a reality. There's a lot of deficit written in there. But I hope that the debates that are being held in connection with the elections will save Estonia. Long live Estonia!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U384	Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U385	Thank you. For the sake of the tenogram: I thank you for this good speech, but I want to make it clear that I did not intervene, but on the contrary, I wanted to help my good fellow official, who has more experience in life than I do, and to say that there are 37 seconds left to conclude. But I would now like to ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu Marko Pomerants!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U386	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm gonna do you a favor and skip the extra time. There is not much to talk about from this budget. I understand that there is no passion in this whole procedure. Journalists have long gone to homework. On the opening days of the budget procedure, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi confirmed that he would not have made such a budget, and today, too, Rannar Vassiliev, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, said that he would not have made such a budget if he had been free to do so. Nobody wants a budget like that, but you see, that's what he is. In recent days, a classic has received more attention than in the last ten years, and I began to understand why Estonian farmers do not receive support from this budget. The reason is very simple. Look, if Mäe Andres and Oru Pearu didn't get any support and the field work was done with the help of their wives and children until they worked to death, why should it be different today? A politician must also be at home on social media. I just found a great post from a lady near Kohila. He had won the Bingo lottery at 6.90. He was happy, and I think if you get a 6.90 in the lottery, that's luck. It is the same with this budget. Everyone gets their 6.90s, some 7:30s too, but unfortunately, the quality of life doesn't change. You can't go along with this budget. Thanks!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U387	Thank you. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Priit Sibula!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U388	Thank you. I'm taking extra time, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U389	Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U390	From this morning's national broadcasting news, I heard that the Baltic Animated Film Festival was being held, where it was also a topic that would otherwise be difficult to talk about. Among other things, abortions were mentioned. Of course, this issue may have a personal impact on many remember the time when abortion was considered to be one of the measures of family planning policy. This is also discussed in the corridors and offices of the Riigikogu building. It was only yesterday that the Committee on Social Affairs dealt with this because there is a draft procedure under which minors will no longer need parental consent for abortion in the future. A week ago, one of you, ladies and gentlemen, asked me in a happy look: 'Sibul, how are you doing with abortion statistics? ' I said a week ago and I say today that I don't do abortion statistics or any other statistics. But I have a specific position on this issue. I would ideally like an Estonia where unborn people are not killed, and I try to make the most of myself so that it is not done. In my opinion, abortions should not be paid off by the health insurance fund because they are not a treatment. It is incomprehensible why it is on the list of services financed by the Health Insurance Fund. I also have a position on the draft state budget. This is a document that is difficult, if not to say impossible to read. In addition, it is a pre-election budget that seeks to please and distribute money to everyone. In my opinion, one of the major problems facing the country is that the priorities are not in place. We dare not say that this or another area is more important to us than others. And there are no priorities within disciplines or ministries either. Our base is in place, and we'll just distribute the money. However, there is a need for a clear target, priorities and, accordingly, funding. A key objective of the previous government was the rapid increase in teachers' salaries. They moved on slowly, but the subject was still on the agenda. Now no more can be heard than the extraordinary problems on the table, which are long known to most people, but which the coalition seems to have discovered at the last minute and is now trying to solve for them. True, but not for everything. For example, the topic of financing private schools hangs between two chairs, extends hands and confirms that solutions will come. Private schools in Estonia do not earn income for owners, but enrich the educational landscape, and it is a concern of all of us that competition and the diversity of pedagogy prevail. If it disappears, we lose everything. The coalition and the chairman of the Monetary Commission are enthusiastically saying that we will allocate an additional EUR 2 million to the state border, at the expense of the internal resources of the Ministry of the Interior and the failure to buy out nature conservation land units to the state. Already the previous Minister for the Interior proposed that the budget be drawn up to find money for the state border, but then it was not considered necessary. I don't like security being dealt with when it's the last minute. In this way, however, the Reform Party has consistently taken a stance on defence policy when proposals have been made to move to the pay army. Stability is now considered to be important, and even so far it is going that the newly joined General not only supports compulsory military service, but also wants to force all women to be sent there. Guys, take a moment and think about what you want to do! It is then possible to understand how seriously you can be taken on these issues at all. The second issue that I want to dwell on is agriculture. I'm still a member of the Committee on Rural Affairs. IRL and I made a proposal that was not considered necessary. The Minister for Agriculture says that Russia's sanctions have had a strong impact on our dairy sector and he has worked hard to alleviate the problems. Last night it became clear that the European Union is planning a package of subsidies to Baltic milk producers of just over 28 million euros to cushion the impact of Russian sanctions, of which 6.9 million are planned for Estonia. This will, of course, happen if there is official confirmation. Much more support, however, could be paid as top-up aid, but the prevailing coalition did not find a cent in this instrument. I would point out that there was no such situation last year, there were no sanctions from Russia. It is therefore pointless to say that these grants were not included in the 2014 budget either. And we, from the IRL, may be better. It is obvious that the current situation is changing the competitive situation in this market, as our dairy producers are hitting the hardest and Estonia is becoming the only country that does not provide meaningful support for the sector. The third issue I want to mention is the employment reform. That's a pretty unhappy level of how we can reorganize areas. In time, the problem of unemployment was tackled by some people being branded as inability to work and receiving benefits and later receiving pensions. However, people with disabilities were overlooked and their problems remain unresolved in the course of the approved reform. Of course, the system that has been in place so far has been overdoing our taxpayers. It is very sad that the problems of people with disabilities will persist and that the new system will still be too much for the taxpayer. It's like a big deal, but there don't seem to be any winners. This is the case with the entire 2015 budget. Many are promised, expectations are high, but there don't seem to be winners. I have a suggestion that the coalition could also mention among other positive things that the Estonian people can now have more sex according to this draft budget. Basically, there is nothing in the draft, so it is not prohibited. Maybe it'll suit them for another half argument. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U391	Thank you. Peter Võsa, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U392	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll try to be as brief as possible. The 2015 budget will take us forward on the road we have been taking perhaps the last 20 years, but certainly the last 10 years. Looking at this budget, it is clear that rural areas are slowly dying out and life is concentrated in the three largest cities in Estonia. If this continues, I think that the time will come at a surprising speed when it is possible to speak, in addition to Estonian, in another language, either English or Russian, in this Chamber. Such a policy has led us that way, and unfortunately it continues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U393	Thank you. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu Enn Fronta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U394	In my speech, I am based on Amendment 11 of the Centre Party, which seeks to improve the use of public transport in places far from Tallinn and Tartu where people live. According to the transport development plan of the Republic of Estonia, the dose of the county bus routes increased by 75% between 2006 and 2012. In the last year, the subsidy of land lines was EUR 21.7 million. The amendment that we tabled would cover the ticket revenue of the county bus routes and allow free bus services for Estonian people on the county routes. In our view, leaving the rate of income tax to the level of 21% this year will continue to be the source of the EUR 13 million needed to implement the amendment. How was our proposal born? The principle alone for the general public is very important in pedagogy when it comes to the acquisition of educational material. In politics, general principles can be developed and used when communicating with people on the ground. I have met both the giants and the islanders before the parliamentary elections, as well as the elections in the municipality of West Saare, introduced my views and the views of the Centre Party, and received from them not only a valuable response but also fresh thoughts, which we will certainly take into account when drafting the party's electoral programme. People are concerned about the current arrangements for bus and coach traffic. When the islander reaches Hiiumaa, he is busy getting the bus to Kärdla. Nigel has bus connections between island residents and the regional centre Pärnu and other important cities. Therefore, the Central Party Group has proposed to make bus traffic available to passengers across the country on regional routes in order to change the state budget for the coming year. In doing so, we believe that we would make a firm contribution to rural development. Free county lines would make it easier to find work and work within the county. The money for this change would be sufficient if the reduction of the income tax rate by 1% were to be avoided next year. The state budget would thus benefit by nearly EUR 70 million. This would also, by the way, ensure the reopening of the Grahuküla-Haapsalu-Tallinn railway line in 2017. The decision to support the opening of this railway line was already taken by the Centre Party Bureau in September. One example is the wish of the Centre Party and the promise to guarantee local residents a free ferry from home to the mainland and back. The meetings have shown that islanders are also expecting more appropriate arrangements for ferry traffic between islands. There are problems there, even several. In the opinion of the people, the route between Hiiumaa and Saaremaa should not be more than a day, but every day. For many, it would make it easier for them to travel to work and come home. We are in favour of clearer regional policy measures. Improving ferry traffic will increase the region's competitiveness and raise people's living standards. The budget for the coming year will not be enough in harmony with the wishes of these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U395	Thank you. The speech chair of the Riigikogu, Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U396	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, here at second reading, the 2015 state budget has been prepared by the government in a loophole and over the top. The previous speakers have repeatedly drawn attention to the various shortcomings here, the lack of a target, the chaotic dispersal of money, the growing government debt living, the increasing nominal and structural deficit. I am not going to tell you more about the shortcomings listed by the previous speakers. Instead, I am talking about the fact that, unfortunately, it has not been possible to obtain substantive answers from ministers when presenting the areas of the budget between first and second readings. Several so-called debates have reminded the village of Potemkin, where behind the festive facade has actually been empty. Let me give you an example of the style of answers given by the government. As we know, this spring the draft was processed, which resulted in the loss of specially labelled fuel. From the autumn of next year, heating with fuel oil is nearly 40% more expensive than it is now. During the proceedings, the government promised that households using fuel oil for heating would receive compensation from the State for the conversion of the fireplace and that no one would have to tolerate excise taxation. When the draft state budget came to the first reading of the hall, the Minister of Finance was asked about this. He confirmed that the money for compensation is available in the budget, it is in the KredEx line, but the Minister of Economic Affairs can explain more precisely. When the Minister for Economic Affairs came to the Committee on Monetary Affairs, we also looked into this from him. The Minister replied that this was not his property was owned by KredEx, the Minister of Foreign Trade. When the Minister for Foreign Trade arrived at the Committee on Finance, he was very surprised that he should know something about the money for converting boilers on the KredEx budget line. He felt that this was still the property of the Minister for Economic Affairs and that this should be asked about by the Minister for Economic Affairs. In the corner of the Commission's room, an official of the Ministry of Finance sat down, and he thought that perhaps these amounts would come from the sale of CO2 quotas. By the next meeting of the Commission, where the Minister for Economic Affairs was again present, he had already made it clear to himself that this money could indeed be obtained from the sale of CO2 quotas. He also suggested that the Environmental Investment Centre's money was in the game, but which budget line it was being taken from, no one could say then or today. However, the budget is a thick base where everything important could be accurately recorded. At the last meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, where a representative of the Ministry of Finance was also present, this issue was also addressed. The representative of the Ministry of Finance explained that the support mechanism is really based on the sale of CO2 quotas to the Environmental Investment Centre, but in order to receive support, you must first perform a thermal audit on the house, then heat the house, and then the state will reimburse only 15% of the cost of building the hearth. And that's the only way to switch to pellet fire. It is clearly too early to stop reading the second reading of the bill against the background of playing this pingpong. Ladies and gentlemen, let us take some time off and let the government clear up the state budget. There is no point in rushing to a budget with a number of questions in the air. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U397	Thank you. Can I have an extra three minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U398	Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U399	Thank you. I now ask the Riigikogu speech chair Liisa-Ly Pakosta!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U400	Ladies and gentlemen, There are two errors in the draft state budget. One of these mistakes is small and the other big. Peter Laurson, the previous speaker, already described this minor mistake. Indeed, from e-Estonia I also expect the budget to be understandable at least for those officials who go to the Riigikogu committees to introduce it. I am not going to spend your time describing the funny scenes in the Committee on Culture, but if the state budget still says on one page that the school building will be built, on the other page that it will not be built, and on the third, that it will be designed, there is really something wrong. Not to mention that most of the questions that arose in the Commission were not answered by the officials, and they were later for us to look at the thick spots with a very complex content. I hope that next year, a major step forward has been taken to eliminate this small mistake, and at least those who present the budget will understand it. Now for the big mistake. The big mistake is that the budget for next year will not be housewifely. The problem of the balance of the state budget has already been discussed by the previous speakers, and I mean by the housewife's budget that both revenue and expenditure are at the same time considered. When I talk about the balance of the state budget, I will stop at only a few places where changes in the budget would improve the overall situation. We cannot rely on the analysis of the state budget merely on the fact that in some rows there is one cost number and in the second row there is a revenue number. We always have to look at the expense and income numbers together. I will give you an example in a simpler language: when a man comes home and says he has drank all the money, and she says, "Don't worry, it's not lost, it's part of it that has gone to the innkeeper's hand, it's also the country's excise duty, which, unfortunately, you have to spend something to raise this man's health, then every hostess will understand. Unfortunately, this very simple logic is not reflected in the budget lines. Let me give you a few examples. The maintenance fund proposed by the Fatherland and Res Publica Association is essentially a budget line that does not go to the minus side, but to the plus side in quite a number of places. This means real financial benefits when parents are not forced to go to court and fight among themselves. It also means healthier children, lower health care costs and lower support costs in schools. This increases the responsibility of parents and brings more money to families where a child or children are forced to raise a mother or father alone. All of this will ultimately have a positive impact on the state budget and on its balance. The example of R &amp; D money has already been spent so much that it does not add much, however, I would point out that the direct link between wages and jobs and R &amp; D money has been proven. Unfortunately, there are no promising grants for the provision of school support services from the budget. The amendments to the financing section of the Basic Schools and Upper Secondary Schools Act had to come to the Committee on Culture a long time ago, as promised by the Minister of Education, but unfortunately no one has seen them yet. Even the directions that support services can reach in the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act do not even exist on our desk. As a member of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union as well as as the Chairman of the Association for Heritage Protection of the Riigikogu, I mark another relatively insignificant place in terms of sum, but the same logic error. The budget lines of the Ministry of Culture are otherwise nicely in surplus or remain at the same level as this year, but in two lines the amounts are decreasing: one is a series of heritage conservation grants for private owners and the other is the budget line of the National Heritage Board. I'll have another minute, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U401	Please, one more minute!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U402	It is completely incomprehensible why we have gone below the pre-boom level in nominal terms. I mean the level that was long before the boom in the first half of the 1990s. And I don't mean proportions, I mean nominal amounts. One more remark to the concept of a housewife's state budget. This concerns the issue of abortions mentioned by one of the previous speakers. I, too, think that the panicking social fear of delivery, what you're about to become, is no career when you're having a baby! It's completely abnormal. However, removing abortions from health care provided free of charge is not cheaper, but more expensive. It wouldn't be a very ethical solution either. We need to achieve a situation in which people with a life-to-life attitude can be supported in making such an important decision in their own right to life. At the same time, no one should be forced to turn to God knows who. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U403	Thank you. Please welcome the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu, Helir-Valdor Seeder! Five plus three minutes, maybe eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U404	Ladies and gentlemen, Fair and purposeful distribution of money is certainly very difficult, especially if it is to achieve sustainable development across the country. This requires a smart monetary policy and a sense of balance, which does not mean that one budget should not have priority areas which, as a result of the development of the surrounding world and society itself, may and probably must change after a while. Unfortunately, the 2015 state budget, which the government has submitted to us, does not meet these requirements. I am not going to talk here about living beyond our means, about the European Commission, or about whether all planned expenditure is covered by revenue. This dispute will probably not help us to achieve a clearer result. However, I would like to focus mainly on the topic 'Agricultural, food production, rural life', which several previous speakers have already spoken about. A funny farmland, clean water and forest are the wealth of the Estonian state, with which we create added value, thanks to which we are competitive on the European and world markets. We have made great progress in this over the last ten years. If we examine some of the ground in Estonia, we will find not oil but history, and this history will tell us about farmland cultivated, fertile over generations. The breeding and breeding activities of our scientists have been going on for decades. During the last ten years, the area of agricultural land in Estonia has grown at a rate of 10000 hectares per year. Our feeding fields are once again cultivated. We have reached the borders of the five best European Member States from our dairy herd level. It is extremely foolish to empty this decade's work, which is also based on the past experiences of Estonian farmers, farmers, in the current crisis. But that is the way that coalition politicians, including both the Minister for Agriculture and the Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, have expressed themselves explicitly today, saying that agriculture has been sacrificed to go to the coalition. And that's extremely unfortunate, because coalitions come and go, they stay a year or two, but it's gonna take decades to rebuild agriculture. The field was fed and the herd destroyed was restored for decades. This is not the reopening of the boot factory. All this is all the more strange that agriculture relies on local resources and is still one of the most national industries in Estonia. I am therefore extremely sorry that the coalition has completely turned its back on the farmer, the food industry and the rural economy. I will bring some vivid facts to make sure that the story does not remain slogand and general. Transitional support from the state budget is not paid. We are the only one in the Baltic region, and perhaps the only one among the countries of the European Union as a whole, who has such a right and who does not exercise it. The fact that this support was not meant to be large in this form last year is not sufficient. Last year there was no such situation on the world market, no sanctions stemming from political decisions were applied and the market lost because of them, there had not been a swine plague in Estonia and there were not many other problems that, by cumulation, have caused a crisis in this sector. And we are the only country in the European Union that does not allocate a single cent from its budget to alleviate this crisis and does not take any special measures! On the contrary, apart from the fact that we do not pay transitional aid, we do not pay special aid for pig farming. We will reduce the European Union's direct payments by EUR 70 million over the whole period. We will reduce the financing of applied agricultural research by around 40% compared to this year's budget. Regional funding will shrink by around 15% next year compared to this year. When we co-finance the rural development plan, we are the most modest among the countries of the European Union. It is likely that the budget for next year will be the only budget in the last ten years where no cents of money will be allocated to the movement of the Kodukant. At least after second reading, we must say that this is the case in the budget. Moreover, in addition to what is not in the budget, there is also concern about what is in this budget from the point of view of agriculture, rural development and food production. In fact, in this budget, agricultural subsidies for natural persons are taxed at 20% of income tax in the history of re-independence Estonia for the first time, which means that the subsidies will decrease by 20%. This puts the natural persons most of the beneficiaries in a worse position than companies and self-employed persons. Income tax is also levied on compensation for loss of income. I repeat once again: income tax is levied on loss of income benefits, as well as 20%. Indeed, this budget is the most anti-farm and rural budget in this century. And I am extremely sorry that social democrats have been involved in putting together such a budget, who in the past have said a great deal about the need to develop rural, agricultural and food production. I am not surprised that the Reform Party, with whom we have been in the coalition for a long time, is indifferent. One of the reasons for the coalition's crackdown was certainly that we were unable to find consensus on the issues of agriculture and rural financing. But the Social Democrats, as I repeat, the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs here today said that the goals of Estonian agriculture and rural development were abandoned in the name of going to the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U405	Thank you. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Kadri Simson! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U406	Ladies and gentlemen, Good chairman of the sitting! I have listened attentively to today's speeches; many of the previous speakers can be accepted. In quite a number of speeches, criticism was that the budget for the coming year does not have a big target and that Estonia's life will not be passed on. But what were we waiting for? In spring, an interim government was set up, which extended the election campaign to one year, while at the same time certainly did not have the mandate to make important decisions. The Interim Government has presented us with the budget for the election year, and on many points that can be criticised in this budget, it is simply an attempt to live up to the electoral promises late. This is quite a number of years when the state budget is brought before the Riigikogu in a situation where costs are more than income. One big question is whether next year may be the year in which the Reform Party implements its promise made several years ago, eliminating more than 70 million euros of tax revenue from the Estonian state budget. I would remind you that the 2007 Coalition Agreement already promised that by 2011 the income tax rate in Estonia would be 18%, but then it was realised that there would also have to be revenue coming from somewhere in order to carry out the tasks assigned to the state and that the reduction of income tax already legalised was postponed. In the coming year, 1% of income tax will eventually be reduced and it will take away quite a large amount from the budget. In addition to having more expenditure than revenue, quite a number of tasks have not been fulfilled in the budget. One of them is the promise to raise police and rescue workers' salaries. If we look at a budget that has been presented more precisely for the second reading, we will not see an increase of 4.5% in the salary fund in the budget of the Border Guard and Rescue Board. One amendment proposed by the Centre Party is to give the money needed to raise the salary in this area so that the pay of police officers should not rise at the cost of concentrating their colleagues. Another obvious problem caused by the lack of money is tax increases. We all remember quite a few tax increases were made during the summer. One of them will bring a 38% increase in room temperature to people who heat their homes with light fuel oil next year. Already knowing that our proposal to change the budget cannot be understood, the Central Party Group launched a draft law on 3 November, the content of which will be to cancel the increase in excise duty on light fuel oil next year. This excise duty affects not only homeowners but also people and municipalities living in apartment buildings. A lot of kindergartens use that fuel. As a general rule, only one million additional revenues from the tax increase that will fall on the municipalities will be planned for next year. This amendment was also rejected by the Riigikogu in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, although the people of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Finance were also present in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, as was the Specialist of the Tax and Customs Board, who all admitted that there were a lot of questionable issues in this law. One question is that the law passed in summer states that everyone who has stocked light fuel oil for their boilers will have to pump out the tanks on 1 May and sell the fuel to whom it comes out of that tank. This law is a failure. I dare say that Tarmo Mänd, a member of the Reform Party Group, was amazed with a loud voice that who has accepted such foolishness. In the summer, sociers and reformists voted in favour of such foolishness. Now the question is how can this stupidity be corrected? Today, with regard to the budget, our amendment will be voted so that this revenue will not be included in the state budget, because it will not be received as such. True, there are also commendable things in the budget. We certainly support the fact that children's benefits will be raised next year. We've been talking about this for a long time. Our ideas that free school food will reach all students from 1st grade to the end of upper secondary school are also included in next year's budget. At the same time, a number of articles have appeared showing that 78 euro cents per meal is certainly not the amount for which all municipalities can offer free school lunch for children. The Central Party's proposal to increase the school food subsidy to EUR 1 per portion is now to be voted on. This would give relief, in particular, to those municipalities that are currently paying a considerable amount of money to get free school lunch for their children. But in places where the city or rural municipality government does not pay extra money to provide school meals, it would still give the children the opportunity to eat free of charge. The Committee on Finance also discussed whether it would be possible to introduce free bus rides on land. The current situation is that two thirds of the money needed to keep the county lines running is obtained in the form of subsidies. All over Estonia, it would only take 13 million euros to make the county lines free of tickets. This would give people living in the countryside an additional opportunity to find employment, perhaps not as high-paid as in cities, but, on the other hand, close to their home and to get moving without extra spending. The total amount required is relatively moderate on a national scale. If we want to bring a parallel, this amount will be as high as the cost to the city of Tallinn of the introduction of free public transport. If there is political will, then the Estonian state can certainly afford it. We would thus give the first clear indication that it is possible to limit peripheralisation. We would also signal that living in the countryside is not punished, that living in the country is no more expensive than living in the city. This brings me to another important amendment. Our proposal is that the Estonian state, like its southern neighbours, would support farmers at the promised rate. We all know that Estonia's agricultural subsidies are smaller anyway than the average in the European Union, and we also miss the opportunity to pay our own subsidies. This amendment will also be voted on today, and I ask for the support of the other groups. Finally, I would like to say that it is very strange if no source of cover offered by the opposition is ever suitable, be it a reserve, be it tax changes, be it the transfer of an object elsewhere. In order to understand how bad this behaviour is, every party must probably be in opposition from time to time. The IRL will understand how such an attitude will work when dealing with this draft. I wish the Reform Party strength next year when you are in this situation! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U407	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. We will begin the examination of the draft 730 amendments. The first amendment is tabled by the commission. The second amendment is the position put forward by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, which is the position of the commission: not to be taken into account. Kaia Iva, please! Did I say something wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U408	I don't have a procedural question right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U409	Got it. Okay, here's what we're Thank you for this proposal. Let's start preparing the vote. Dear colleagues, I will vote on the second amendment tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance. Please take a stand and vote. 15 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 48 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 3 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group, position of the commission: disregard. Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U410	I would like to ask for the vote on Amendment 2 on behalf of the IRL.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U411	Got it. I'm sorry! Yes, I'm listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U412	Good questioner, don't you have a print option? A microphone for Kaia Ivale, please! Mr. Riisalu, please return to your seat! [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U413	I do now have a procedural question, Mr President. It has appeared that the draft printing options are not in the Chamber and that it is very difficult for people to follow the list of amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U414	I personally have a printing option, but I, as Vice-Chairman of the Group, was approached with concern and asked me. Unfortunately, I don't have one of you to give up.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U415	Got it. I've forwarded this request and promised to be brought back soon. Kadri Simson, please! Don't you have that print option? [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U416	I ask for a third vote on the amendment on increasing school food aid to one euro for those who have not been able to read it from their own materials.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U417	Thank you. We will begin the preparation of the vote. I shall put to the vote the third amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Please take a stand and vote. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] 18 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 44 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 4 has been tabled by Mr Andres Herkel, member of the Riigikogu, the position of the commission: to be disregarded. This proposal is not to be voted on in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. Amendment 5 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group, position of the commission: disregard. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U418	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 5 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. Please take a stand and vote. 18 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 45 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 6 has been tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, position of the commission: not to be taken into account. Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U419	I would like to ask for the fifth amendment to be voted on. This concerns the amounts to be allocated for the storage of local roads.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U420	This time it is not a procedural issue, but I would like to ask the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica to vote on this proposal. Amendment 6 talks about basic research funding.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U421	Let us vote on this proposal. Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 6, tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance. Please take a stand and vote. 31 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 48 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 7 has been tabled by Mr Herkel, the position of the commission: to be disregarded. This proposal is not to be voted on in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. Amendment 8 has been tabled by Liisa-Ly Pakosta, position of the commission: not to be taken into account. Liisa-Ly Pakosta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U422	Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 8, tabled by Ms Pakosta. Please take a stand and vote. There were 15 delegates in favour, 48 against, one abstention. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 9 has been tabled by Liisa-Ly Pakosta, position of the commission: not to be taken into account. Liisa-Ly Pakosta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U423	I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U424	Thank you very much. I am also asking for this motion to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U425	Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 9, tabled by Ms Pakosta. Please take a stand and vote. 15 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 47 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 10 has been tabled by Liisa-Ly Pakosta, position of the commission: not to be taken into account. Liisa-Ly Pakosta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U426	Thank you very much. I am asking for this motion to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U427	I shall put to the vote the tenth amendment tabled by Mrs Pakosta. Please take a stand and vote. 15 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 49 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 11 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group, the position of the commission: to be disregarded. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U428	I ask for the vote on Amendment 11, which concerns free transport on regional lines.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U429	I shall put to the vote the 11th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Please take a stand and vote. 17 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 46 against and 1 abstention. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 12 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group, position of the commission: disregard. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U430	This 12th amendment concerns the top-up of Estonian farmers. I ask you to vote on this!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U431	Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote the 12th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Please take a stand and vote. 19 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 44 against and 1 abstention. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 13 has been tabled by Mr Herkel, the position of the commission: to be disregarded. This proposal does not have to be voted in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. Amendment 14 has been tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, position of the commission: not to be taken into account. Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U432	I shall put to the vote the 14th amendment tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance. Please take a stand and vote. 17 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 46 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 15 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group; this has not been taken into account by the commission. Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U433	I am asking for this proposal, which talks about the support of farmers and which has nice sources of cover, certainly to vote in this Chamber!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U434	I am pleased if you promise that we will take the 15th amendment first and then we will move on to the 16th.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U435	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U436	Yeah, that makes sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U437	I have a procedural question about the 16th amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U438	I am very sorry, but we are currently on Amendment 15.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U439	Then there's a little bit of time, but I'll ask you at the next point. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U440	The Central Party Group's proposal No 15 provides for the abolition of the increase in excise duties on fuel. I ask you to vote on this!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U441	I shall put to the vote the 15th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Please take a stand and vote. 18 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 48 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 16 has been tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, position of the commission: not to be taken into account. I'm asking for silence! Kaia Eva, a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U442	Thank you. I don't think that's a procedural question. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U443	It is a good thing that we have now come to the 16th amendment. I really do have a procedural question. Mr President, I believe that when you followed the speeches made in the framework of the negotiations, you heard that the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the head of this state budget, had a misconception about this amendment. In particular, he said that this was a fixed cost and therefore this amendment could not be taken into account. But it was explained here, and it is also stated in the explanatory memorandum, that this would be the one-off contribution needed to create the necessary statute for the establishment of a maintenance fund. In the name of truth and justice, would the President not like to take a break so that the Commission can gather, understand its mistake nicely and realise that it is not a fixed cost, and then make a wise decision? As I understand it, they would have wanted to take it very much into account. Is that an option? Thank you, manager.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U444	It's a good thing you didn't think it was a procedural question. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U445	Thank you! Rannar Vasiliev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U446	It's not procedural. But I'm just suggesting that you read my answer to this question from the verbatim.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U447	Thank you. My name wasn't mentioned, but my identity is. In the Riigikogu, apart from my Committee on Finance...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U448	In this case, you have no right to rejoinder. This right is in the course of negotiations. Or do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U449	This, too, was not a procedural question. Kaia Iva, please! Do you want to put the motion to a vote?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U450	I don't want to ask any more procedural questions. I have a motion to vote on this amendment on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union. And since the President does not intend to take a break, I also ask for a ten-minute break so that the Committee on Monetary Affairs can meet, discuss the matter and make a right and honest decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U451	Thank you. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U452	Good fellows! The recess requested by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union has ended. I went to see the bill drawers. Bill 730 is there nicely, please take the one who doesn't. I would like to thank those who have voted on the amendments, who have helped to explain to the Chamber what the amendment is. The bill now exists on paper and this clarification is no longer needed. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U453	This depends on whether or not the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs convened the committee. When I walked around during the break, I saw that quite a number of members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs had a serious discussion outside the Chamber. I expect there was a debate on public finances. Rannar Vasiliev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U454	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, do you know whether or not the Committee on Monetary Affairs met in the meantime? As a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I have not received an invitation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U455	See! Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U456	Just to explain that the Committee on Monetary Affairs did not gather. But some members of the Riigikogu, who are also members of the Monetary Committee, really discussed this issue, but at least the chairman of the Monetary Committee came to the belief that he was not wrong. It really says here that money is needed to implement a living fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U457	As we have understood differently from this proposal, we have now understood differently whether or not the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs was held. After all, the debate really took place, and I understand that it was a meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs that I had not been invited to.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U458	I'm asking for silence! Thank you. Certainly in the future, when formal sittings are held, the Bureau will ensure that all members are invited. This was the right point of attention, but there was no formal meeting or sitting at the moment. But we are on Amendment 16. Dear colleagues, I will put to the vote the 16th amendment tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance. Please take a stand and vote. 15 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 46 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 17 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group; this has not been taken into account by the commission. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U459	Sorry, Mr Juul has left, Peep Aru is in the hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U460	Honourable Riigikogu, please, let us maintain our seriousness! If you wish to put proposals to the vote, say so. Tell me that I wish to put the 17th amendment to the vote, and the President understands this very well. Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U461	Mr President, you said that the materials have been distributed. But I am looking at the Reform Party Group here, there are no colleagues on Männ, July, Jents or Palling. No one has materials on the table, and they don't know what they're voting for. I assume they're just voting against everything.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U462	Excuse me, would you like to vote?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U463	Thank you. Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U464	I just want to make such a very small remark that, although I am a relatively old person, I am fine with my head and I remember something too. I don't have to read everything on paper.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U465	At a late hour, I still want to know who's left and who's come.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U466	Those who have departed have departed, and those who have come have come. I shall put to the vote the 17th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Please take a stand and vote. 16 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 46 against and 1 abstention. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 17 has now been examined. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Amendment 18 has been tabled by Mr Herkel, the position of the commission: to be disregarded. This proposal shall not be subject to the vote. Amendment 19 has been tabled by Mr Herkel, the position of the commission: to be disregarded. This proposal, too, is not to be voted on. Amendment 20 has been tabled by Liisa-Ly Pakosta, position of the commission: not to be taken into account. Liisa-Ly Pakosta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U467	Who have left, and who have come?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U468	What?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U469	Thank you very much. I am asking people to vote in favour of this proposal, because it would be to eliminate the life-threatening situation in Viitna's bypass.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U470	I shall put to the vote the 20th amendment tabled by Mrs Pakosta. Please take a stand and vote. 15 members of the Riigikogu, 45 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 21 has been tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, the position of the commission: to be disregarded. Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U471	On behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, I have a proposal to vote on Amendment 21, because there is certainly a need for additional money in the state budget for legislation on the preparation of administrative reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U472	I also understand the shorter request, because now the bill is on paper. I shall put to the vote the 21st amendment tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance. Please take a stand and vote. 16 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 48 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 22 has been tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, position of the commission: not to be taken into account. Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U473	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very much. I ask for this amendment to be voted on, because I think, like the entire IRL, that a national border needs good protection.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U474	I shall put to the vote Amendment 22 tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance. Please take a stand and vote. 15 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 48 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 23 has been tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, the position of the commission: to be disregarded. Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U475	We have already come quite far, with the last amendment. I also have a proposal to vote on this proposal, because the Salvation League needs extra money.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U476	I shall put to the vote the 23rd amendment tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance. Please take a stand and vote. 14 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 46 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 24 has been tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, position of the commission: not to be taken into account. Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U477	I shall put to the vote the 24th amendment tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance. Please take a stand and vote. 29 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 41 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Dear colleagues, we have examined all the amendments. The position of the commission is that the second reading must be completed. The Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union has proposed to interrupt the second reading of the 2015 draft State Budget Act 730, signed by the Vice-Chairman of the Group. I am voting on the second reading of draft proposal 730 from the Fatherland and Res Publica Union. Please take a stand and vote. 15 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 49 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Second reading of the bill is over. I shall set draft 730 as the deadline for the submission of amendments. a on November 27, 5.15 p.m. The 10th item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U478	The last amendment is certainly very important for everyone, as its content is to give additional money to the village movement. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U479	We will move on to the 11th item, the second reading of draft law amending the Law on Audit Activities and the Law on Securities Markets initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please present the Chair of the Riigikogu, Vice-Chairman of the Economic Commission Toomas Tõniste!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U480	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, A total of eight proposals for this draft were received from the originator's representative. The Board of Auditors also presented its proposals and opinions, and one of them was proposed by the sworn auditor Tiiu Toots. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the draft. a meeting on 3 and 10 November.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U481	Good waitress, I'm sorry! Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for silence. We want to move on to our hearing, but there's noise in the hall. Quiet in the hall, please! Thank you. Please continue, good waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U482	Representatives of the initiator of the draft, the Deputy Secretary-General of Financial Policy and External Relations of the Ministry of Finance Märten Ross and the Head of the Department of Enterprise and Accounting Policy of Kurmet Ojamaa and the President of the Auditor Assembly Märt-Martin Development were invited to the meeting on 3 November. Märten Ross informed the members of the Commission that the Ministry of Finance was aware of the problems related to the supervision of audit activities that had been addressed by the Board of Auditors in its letter. However, according to the Ministry, it is not possible to make very fundamental changes within the framework of this draft, which require further consideration and preparation. At the same time, without amending the existing law, it is possible to make some necessary adjustments, for example, a new Supervisory Board will already be appointed in March 2015. A longer discussion arose in connection with the proposal of the Auditor Board, according to which self-training could be included as part of the professional development required of the sworn auditor. The initiator did not support this proposal. Both had explained their views in writing to the Commission and this proposal was not supported by the Commission. All ten amendments submitted for the second reading of the draft are proposals from the commission, which were taken into account by the Commission on the basis of the reasons set out in the explanations of the amendments. The procedural decisions of the commission were as follows: to refer draft 613 to the plenary session for second reading on 19 November 2014, to propose the termination of the second reading and, when the second reading is closed, to send the draft to the third reading by 3 December 2014 with a proposal for a final vote. All decisions were taken by consensus.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U483	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. Let us begin the examination of the amendments. Ten amendments have been received for draft 613; they are all from the lead committee. First, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth and tenth proposals. We have examined the amendments. The position of the commission is to conclude the second reading. The second reading of the draft has been completed and the 11th item has been dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U484	Let's move on to agenda item 12. This is the second reading of the draft Act amending the Ordering of Arts Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 735. I ask for a presentation by Paul-Eerik Rummo, Member of the Cultural Commission of the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U485	President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Riigikogu! This draft, the draft law amending the Ordering of Arts Act, was at first reading in this Chamber on 15 October. A decision was made that interested parties should submit amendments by 29 October. The Committee on Culture discussed the preparation of the second reading on 11 and 17 November. The first thing we did was to establish that no amendments had been received. The Commission committed itself to clarifying the wording of some of the provisions of this draft. Nine amendments were drawn up, either of a technical nature or of a kind, that simply clarify the wording and make things clear. So we tried to work towards the law being unambiguous and well understood. As I have already said, this is nine amendments. All of these have been prepared by the Commission and, of course, they have also been approved by the Commission. The committee made procedural decisions: to put the draft on the agenda of the large hall today and to propose that the Riigikogu stop second reading. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U486	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Do you want to open negotiations? No, I don't. Let us begin the examination of the amendments. Nine amendments to draft 735 have been tabled by the Steering Committee. The first, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth and ninth amendments. The amendments have been examined. Second reading of Bill 735 has been completed and item 12 has been dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U487	We will move on to agenda item 13 - the first reading of the Biocidal Products Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and of the Draft Act amending the State Fees Act 754. Urmas Kruuse, Minister of Health and Labour of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U488	Honourable President! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased to present to you the draft law amending the Biocidal Products Act and the State Fees Act, which the Riigikogu has adopted on 20 October. The amendments to the Biocidal Products Act and the State Fees Act are intended to ensure the implementation of the European Union Biocidal Products Regulation. To this end, the current Biocidal Products Act will be aligned with the Biocidal Products Regulation. Biocides are necessary for the destruction or control of organisms harmful to human and animal health and to natural or manufactured products, in particular by chemical or biological means. However, because of their intrinsic properties, biocidal products may also pose a risk to humans, animals and the environment. It is therefore important that the risks associated with the use of biocidal products are controlled. Biocidal products should only be made available and used after their intrinsic properties have been identified, their risk to humans and the environment has been assessed, their efficacy in the target organism has been demonstrated, and guidance has been developed for their safe use as far as possible. To describe this, manufacturers shall draw up appropriate documentation, i.e. a dossier, for the biocidal product and its active substance. The accuracy and relevance of the dossier for both the active substance and the biocidal product shall be assessed by the competent authorities of the European Union or the Member States. Once the active substance of a biocidal product has been approved at European Union level, a dossier can be drawn up for a biocidal product containing that active substance. Once the biocidal product dossier has been found to comply with the requirements, authorisation for the making available and use of the biocidal product under the Biocidal Products Regulation shall be granted either at the level of the European Union or at the level of a Member State. Until 1 September 2013, the Biocidal Products Directive and several Commission implementing regulations regulated the marketing and use of biocidal products. Unfortunately, the Biocidal Products Directive was not implemented as expected. In 2008, it became apparent that a significant part of the directive's provisions had not yet been implemented in the Member States. Many of the provisions were unclear and unevenly applied and, in practice, put a heavy burden on some situations. In order to improve the situation, a new directly applicable legislation, a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council, called the Biocidal Products Regulation, was developed in the European Union. The Biocidal Products Regulation entered into force in June 2012 and will apply from 1 September 2013. With the entry into force of the new directly applicable legislation, there was a need to improve the internal legal space. There is no need for duplication of national regulations with regard to the implementation of uniform European Union requirements. However, it is necessary to establish appropriate implementing measures for the application of the Biocidal Products Regulation and to ensure national monitoring of compliance with the requirements of the Regulation. The draft repeals a large part of the provisions of the Biocidal Products Act, leaving for a transitional period those which already issue registration certificates or marketing authorisations or issue new registration certificates. Registration certificates are issued during a transitional period, i.e. at a time when the active substance of the biocidal product has not yet been approved at European Union level, and therefore no proper dossier can be drawn up for the biocidal product and each country allows the biocidal product to be placed on the market in accordance with its own requirements. In Estonia, you should apply for a registration certificate for this purpose. The terms will also be clarified by aligning them with those used in the Regulation. The amendments to the draft can be divided into two parts. Firstly, for the implementation of the Biocidal Products Regulation, the competent authority, which is the Health Agency, is designated to carry out the procedural procedures laid down in the Regulation. Fees and fees shall be established for the procedural procedures carried out by the Health Board under the Biocidal Products Regulation. The monitoring of compliance with the requirements of the Biocidal Products Act and the Biocidal Products Regulation will be specified. Secondly, amendments are proposed which are not directly due to the implementation of the Biocidal Products Regulation. In order to reduce the potential health and environmental risks posed by biocidal products, it is necessary to promote the sustainable use of biocidal products. The draft specifies the requirements for the safe use of the biocidal product, especially for the making available and use of biocidal products for professional use. In this way, professional biocidal products may only be made available in wholesale trade and the trader must submit an economic notification. Provision shall be made for who is a professional user and what requirements are to be met. It is important to have the knowledge and skills that can be obtained through a variety of training courses. Of course, there are also requirements for training whose curriculum is based on the professional standards of the exterminator. Specify who is required to qualify for the fifth level of the pest-fighter's professional qualification as a professional pest-control service provider. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! This is a bill that helps to protect human health. I ask you to accept this law!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U489	Thank you. You have at least one question. Väino Linde, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U490	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, thank you for your thorough presentation. On the other hand, I am asking about the amendment on state fees. In particular, there have been some changes compared to the size previously in force. For what reason?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U491	Thank you. If we look at the permits issued so far, in some cases the manufacturer has directly contacted the experts through whom these files were made. This means that expert remuneration has also been paid. Now that the competent authority, the Health Board, is appointed, minimum direct costs are included in the state fees in order to carry out the necessary operations. This means that all operations are carried out through the Health Board, which is the competent institution in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U492	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U493	Thank you, Mr Deputy Head of the Riigikogu, Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. I think I got it right now. Mr. Minister! The question is this: have you been approached by those entrepreneurs who deal with pest control, insect control? They use biocidal products and claim that the new legislation will make biocidal products more expensive and that they will have to increase the price of their services. Have there been any such appeals, and have these people, entrepreneurs, been consulted?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U494	Thank you. I didn't get a letter like that. I have repeatedly coordinated the amendment of this law and the introduction of these amendments to the Chemical Union. Certainly not everything that is linked to the risks to human health and the environment can always be as cheap as we imagine it to be. The fact is, certain changes in the law are caused. While most Estonian companies produce disinfectants, where the proportion of biocidal products is not high, I cannot tell you that there is no economic impact at all. In fact, the additional materials submitted have also indicated that there is a certain economic impact, but if we look at the Estonian economy as a whole, it will be less than 1%.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U495	Tõnis Kõiv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U496	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Additional materials to this fine draft include Annex No 3, a table showing the amount of state fees and charges. In the case of activities which are subject to state fees, the initial fee and the maximum fee are fixed, which in some cases vary several times. There is a theoretical risk that for the undertaking that is going to carry out these operations, the fee will move in the maximum direction rather than be kept to an optimal level, because in many cases the payment of the fee depends on the costs incurred and the costs can be managed in all respects.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U497	Honourable member of the Riigikogu! In fact, this range is such for two very important reasons. It is precisely the limitation of the company's potential costs, i.e. the range itself determines the maximum possible. Another important component that the Estonian state has foreseen with this amendment is the possibility of making a refund if the costs turn out to be lower. It's a very important thing. The hourly fee and all this activity will be monitored very closely. The only thing is that the experts who do this are not based in Estonia and are generally based on international hourly prices. This is the subject that forces us to keep these things under control. The Estonian state is one of the few who has provided for the reimbursement of the remuneration in the interests of the company.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U498	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I now ask for a presentation by Jaanus Tamkivi, member of the environmental committee of the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U499	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The environmental committee of the Riigikogu discussed the draft law at another session, which took place on Monday, 10 November. As representatives of specialists, Leelo Männik, Head Specialist of the Public Health Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, and Riina Lahne, Head Specialist of the Chemical Safety Department of the Health Board, were invited. There was a lively debate, many questions were asked to experts, and they were well answered. After that, the Commission went to the decisive part. The following was decided: to propose to place a draft of 754 on the plenary agenda today, to close the first reading of the draft and to set the deadline for amendments to the draft by 3 December. a. All these decisions were taken by consensus. That was the end of the debate in the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U500	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? Väino Linde, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U501	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, If you look at the draft on a more philosophical side, such as vermin and other pests, how does it feel about their actions? Is the situation getting better or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U502	Thank you for that question. I have to admit with sadness here that their lives are going to be much bitterer than it has been so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U503	Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U504	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good chairman of the sitting! Dear waitress, This is certainly a very important draft. But in order to find out more about the magnitude of its importance, I ask what quantities of biocidal products are being discussed in Estonia at all, so that it would be obvious how much we are exposed to such a dangerous matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U505	Thank you. By naming these quantities, I'm gonna stick around a little bit, but I want to point out that these are very dangerous substances. It is therefore to be welcomed that regulations in this area will be tightened up and the rules of the game will be clarified. The smaller the quantities we can handle in the future, the better. These poisons are designed to control pests, but if they enter the wider natural environment or circulation, they will naturally damage all organisms, including humans themselves. So this is a very important bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U506	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Now, of course, the representatives of the political groups have the opportunity to start negotiations on the issues you have touched on. Please, representatives of the political groups. Once again, good representatives of the political groups, it is your turn. There's no call. Okay, then we won't open the negotiations. The commission has proposed that the first reading be closed. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 754 amendments. 3 December at 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the 13th item is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U507	We will proceed to the 14th item and begin the first reading of the Riigikogu decision "Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international responsibilities of the Estonian state in the training and counselling mission in Afghanistan" by the Government of the Republic. It is a great honour for me to welcome Minister Sven Mikser to the Riigikogu's speech chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U508	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. It is, of course, a great honour for me to stand here before you with this bill. And I am pleased that you have also decided to take part in this debate this beautiful autumn afternoon. Draft Decision 759 deals with the use of the Estonian Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in the training and advisory mission in Afghanistan. As is generally known, this year NATO's largest joint operation outside its territory, known under the abbreviation ISAF and where Estonia has participated over the years, will end. According to the mandate given at the end of last year, Estonia participated there until May this year with up to 170 members of the Defence Forces. Following the end of this operation, NATO is planning a follow-up operation to Afghanistan called Resolute Support Mission (RSM). This is a mission that will be much smaller and significantly different from ISAF in nature. RSM will focus on developing and supporting Afghan security forces. The duration of this operation is initially planned for two years, of course it is an initial plan and the size of the mission is up to 12,000 members of the Defence Forces. True, this figure may also remain somewhat smaller. Estonia has considered participation in NATO-led operations to be a priority, and so we have committed ourselves to contributing to the RSM mission. We ask the Riigikogu for a mandate for the participation of up to 25 members of the Defence Forces in this operation. It is planned to contribute with staff officers and demining capabilities in the northern region of Afghanistan, with a total of up to ten people. In addition, the Government of the Republic is asking for a mandate to participate in up to 15 operational units of the Special Operations Unit, who would continue to act with the Special Forces of the United States of America, which had already begun during the ISAF. It is still open whether cooperation with the US in the area of special operations will continue in Afghanistan or elsewhere, and therefore it is not known whether we will fully implement this mandate next year. But I hope that the Riigikogu considers Estonia's participation in the follow-up mission in Afghanistan necessary and supports the mandate of up to 25 active troops from the beginning of next year until the end of next year, after which, of course, we will come before you if necessary again with a request to extend this mission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U509	Minister, thank you. There are no questions. I ask Marianne Mikko, Member of the National Defence Commission, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U510	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, NATO-led operation ISAF, to which Estonia contributed for 11 years, ends on 31 December, as the Minister said. a. Making Afghanistan secure remains one of NATO's priorities, which is why NATO will continue with the ISAF follow-up Mission in Afghanistan on 1 January 2015. The objective of the NATO Training and Advice Mission is to train and advise the Afghan security forces, ministries and other institutions. Unlike ISAF, the new operation does not involve NATO's battle activities. According to this draft decision of the Riigikogu, Estonia will also continue to fulfil its allied duties on the new NATO mission and will contribute to the Resolute Support Mission with up to 25 active troops in Afghanistan in 2015. The legal basis for the mission is the agreement between NATO and Afghanistan on the status of forces, SOFA, which determines the conditions under which NATO will continue to operate in Afghanistan. It also lists the activities that NATO Resolution Support will carry out in the framework of the Mission. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before presenting it to the first reading at the meeting of 11 November, where the Minister of Defence Sven Mikser also participated. On 4 November, the Defence Forces General Staff held a meeting of the National Defence Commission, where we received an overview of the international missions taking place with the participation of the Estonian Defence Forces, including the situation in Afghanistan. At the meeting of 11 November, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that the draft under discussion be included on the agenda for the first reading of the session of the Riigikogu on 19 November. A speaker was appointed to serve as a waitress for the National Defence Committee. In addition, the National Defence Committee decided again by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu that the first reading of the draft be terminated and to propose to the President of the Riigikogu that the draft amendments be submitted by the deadline s. a 2 December at 1 p.m. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U511	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? There's no call. The position of the commission is that the first reading must be completed. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 759 amendments. a 2 December at 1 p.m. The first reading is closed and the 14th item is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U512	We will move on to item 15, which is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the work of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation and the international military headquarters of the European Union' presented by the Government of the Republic. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister of Defence Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U513	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Draft Decision 760 concerns the use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the work of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, which is the international military headquarters of NATO and the European Union. As we know, crises, including crises that require the response of the international community, are emerging rapidly and unexpectedly today. NATO or the European Union is also often forced to participate in the regulation of these crises. According to the International Military Cooperation Act of the Republic of Estonia, the use of our Defence Forces personnel in such operations requires a mandate from the Riigikogu, but upon the outbreak of the crisis, international organisations are forced to deploy competent staff officers quickly to the future mission area. And in order for Estonia to be able to participate quickly and flexibly in the planning of these missions from the beginning, we ask for a 'preventive mandate' for up to five members of the Defence Forces. Then we will have a flexible opportunity to immediately deploy Estonian staff officers to the mission area if necessary. This procedure was also used in 2013, when the European Union launched a crisis regulation operation in Mali, and this decision justified itself in every way. I would remind you that, in accordance with the International Military Cooperation Act, in the presence of such a proactive mandate, the Minister of Defence, in coordination with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be able to order the deployment of active troops. The President of the Republic, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu and the Chairman of the Parliament's National Defence Committee will also be informed of this arrangement without delay. Of course, we cannot rule out the need for such a posting in the next year. So I ask Parliament to support this decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U514	Minister, thank you. There are no questions. Aivar Riisalu, Deputy Chairman of the National Defence Commission, will present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U515	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to first reading. a at its meeting on 11 November. Mr Sven Mikser, Minister of Defence, represented the author of the draft, took part in the meeting. By decision of the Riigikogu, pursuant to § 8 (11) of the International Military Cooperation Act, the limit for the number of Estonian Defence Forces each year, who may participate in the work of the international military headquarters in the operational area of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, or briefly the start of a new operation led by NATO and the European Union. The Riigikogu gives such a mandate only to participate in new operations and this does not apply to ongoing operations. The draft decision of the Riigikogu determining the limit shall be submitted to the Riigikogu by the Government of the Republic and the limit for the members of the Defence Forces shall be determined on the basis of the decision of the Riigikogu for each calendar year. According to the draft under discussion, the 2015 limit is as much as this year, up to five members of the Defence Forces. The need for such a decision arises from a changed security situation where urgent decisions are to be taken. The National Defence Committee considers that contributing to the new military operations of NATO and the European Union is a priority for the Estonian state and is directly due to the membership of Estonia's NATO and European Union. In addition, Estonia also participates in decisions to start new operations led by these organisations. On 4 November of this year, the Defence Forces General Staff held a meeting of the National Defence Commission, where the Commission received an overview from senior officers of the Defence Forces of the international missions taking part in the Estonian Defence Forces and the readiness of the Defence Forces to contribute to the work of NATO and the European Union military headquarters if necessary. The National Defence Committee decided s. a At its meeting on 11 November, by consensus, the Board of the Riigikogu will be invited to include the draft under discussion for the first reading in the Riigikogu. On the agenda of the 19 November session, the Riigikogu was asked to conclude the first reading of the draft. The rapporteur for the Commission was appointed here. In addition, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose a draft deadline for the submission of amendments. a 2 December at 1 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U516	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Do the groups want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of 760 amendments. a 2 December at 1 p.m. The first reading is closed and the 15th item is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U517	We will move on to the 16th item, which is the first reading of draft 761 of the Riigikogu decision "Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in the composition of the Nordic Battle Group of the European Union." I ask the Minister of Defence, Sven Mikser, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U518	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Draft decision 761 concerns the use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in the composition of the European Union's Nordic Battle Group. Battlegroups are units within the European Union's multi-ethnic battalion tactical group, capable of rapid response. Estonia participates in the Nordic Battle Group with Norway, Finland, Sweden, Latvia, Lithuania and Ireland. According to the battle group concept, the battle groups are on 15-day standby, of which five days are reserved for the decision on deployment and 10 days for the deployment of the mission area. The concept is that battle groups must be able to stay on the mission for up to 120 days. The Nordic Battle Group is ready for the first half of next year. However, since at least theoretically there is a possibility that the battle group will be decided to activate and deploy the operation at the end of this preparation period, it is also justified to ask the Riigikogu for an annual mandate. Estonia has also been ready to react in the Nordic Battle Group in 2008 and 2011. We appreciate this concept very highly and are very grateful to Sweden, which is the leader of the Nordic Battle Group, and we have also supported the principle that the European Union should be prepared to actually use battle groups in these crisis management operations, which correspond to the idea and description of the concept of battle groups. I count on the Riigikogu to support this mandate.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U519	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you, Secretary of Defense Sven Mikser! Kaia Iva, Member of the National Defence Committee of the Chair, for a co-report!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U520	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The National Defence Committee discussed this draft before submitting it to first reading. a at its meeting on 11 November. Mr Sven Mikser, Minister of Defence, represented the author of the draft, took part in the meeting. The concept of the European Union's battle groups was approved in June 2004. Previously, the Riigikogu has given a mandate for the participation of the Estonian Defence Forces in the Nordic Battle Group for 2008 and 2011. According to the draft, the Nordic Battle Group can be used under the provisions of Chapters VI and VII of the Charter of the United Nations for a military operation to preserve or restore peace and security and for another military operation in accordance with generally accepted practices and principles of international law. The Nordic Battle Group is a European Union response team of about 1 500 defence forces in 15 days' readiness. As a Member State of the European Union, it is also important for Estonia to be active in the implementation of the European Union's common security and defence policy. The Estonian active troops of the battle group are mostly located in Estonia during the preparation period. The use of the battle group is decided by the Council of the European Union by consensus, which means that it can only be used with the consent of Estonia. The National Defence Committee visited s. During the 4th November departure session, the Commission received an overview from representatives of the Defence Forces of the international missions taking part in the Estonian Defence Forces, including the preparation of the Defence Forces, to participate in the Nordic Battle Group. The National Defence Committee decided s. a At its meeting on 11 November, by consensus, the Board of the Riigikogu will be invited to include the draft under discussion for the first reading in the Riigikogu. On the agenda of the 19 November session, the Riigikogu also proposes that the first reading of the draft be stopped. The rapporteur was appointed here. In addition, the Commission decided by consensus to propose a deadline of 2 December at 1 p.m. for the submission of amendments. a. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U521	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Kaia Iva! Do you want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 761. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft. a 2 December at 1 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U522	Agenda item 17 is the first reading of draft 762 of the Riigikogu's decision on the extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces by the Government of the Republic in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the European Union Training Mission and the United Nations Peace Mission in Mali. Please report to Secretary of Defense Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U523	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Draft Decision 762 concerns the extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in Mali, where Estonia participates in two operations as well: one is the European Union Training Mission and the other is the UN-led peacekeeping mission MINUSMA. Estonia is also currently a part of both missions. As regards the European Union Training Mission EUTM Mali, the mandate currently applies to up to 10 active troops and Estonia participates in the training team with staff officers. We will ask for the same mandate for next year. In MINUSMA, Estonia has so far been a member of staff and an active military officer in an international intelligence target unit led by the Netherlands. In 2015, we want a mandate for up to 10 members of the Defence Forces to deploy five more active troops and to maintain the necessary reserves and flexibility in case, for example, military rotation is needed. I also ask for the support of the Riigikogu to this mission mandate!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U524	Any questions for the Minister? There are no questions. Thank you very much for your presentation. Innar Mäesalu, Member of the National Defence Commission, will give a co-report!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U525	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, According to this draft decision of the Riigikogu, the use of the Defence Forces for two military operations in Mali will be extended on the European Union Training Mission and the United Nations Peacebuilding Mission MINUSMA. Estonia has been contributing to both missions since summer 2013. The European Union launched a training mission in Mali in early 2013. The legal bases for participation in the mission shall be the UN Security Council Resolution and the request of the President of the Republic of Mali to the European Union. The objective of the mission is to provide military and training advice to the Malian Armed Forces in order to be able to better protect Mali's territorial integrity and reduce organised crime and the threat of terrorism in the country. It is important for Estonia to contribute to the implementation of the European Union's common security and defence policy, and in 2015 up to 10 active Estonian troops will participate in the European Union training mission. Estonia's participation is the same this year. The UN peacekeeping mission MINUSMA was established in spring 2013 by a UN Security Council Resolution. The objective of this mission is to stabilise Mali and restore state power throughout the country, to support the protection of civilians and UN representatives, to protect human rights and to provide humanitarian assistance. By 2014, the Riigikogu authorised two active troops to participate in the MINUSMA mission. According to the draft, up to 10 active troops will participate in the mission in 2015. In addition to staff officers, the Reconnaissance Team will also contribute in 2015. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to first reading at its meeting on 11 November. Defence Minister Sven Mikser also took part in the meeting. On 4 November, the Defence Forces General Staff held a meeting of the National Defence Commission, where the Commission received an overview from representatives of the Defence Forces of the international missions taking part in the Estonian Defence Forces, including the situation in Mali. At its meeting on 11 November, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to invite the Board of the Riigikogu to include the draft under discussion for the first reading on the agenda of the session of the Riigikogu on 19 November 2014. A speaker was appointed to serve as a waitress for the National Defence Committee. In addition, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to invite the Riigikogu to conclude the first reading of the draft under discussion and to propose to the President of the Riigikogu that the draft be fixed by the deadline for submitting amendments. a 2 December at 1 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U526	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you, Innar Mäesalu! Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 762. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft. a 2 December at 1 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U527	The next item is the first reading of draft 763 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the composition of NATO' by the Government of the Republic. Secretary of Defense Sven Mikser, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U528	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Draft Decision 763 concerns the use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in the NATO response forces. NATO's response force was established on the basis of the decision of the 2002 Prague historic summit of NATO. This is the same summit where Estonia was invited to join NATO. NATO's response force is a high-speed unit that must be able to conduct military operations worldwide and also ensure that NATO's rapid response capability is maintained and maintained. In 2015, Estonia wishes to contribute to the NRF with one mine hunter and a crew of up to 40 active troops, as well as up to five staff officers. All in all we ask for next year's mandate for up to 45 active troops. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U529	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I would like to ask Lauri Laas, Member of the National Defence Commission for a co-report!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U530	Madam President! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! For more information on the general principles of the draft under discussion. Estonia's participation in NATO's response forces is due to NATO membership. All NATO Member States contribute to the NRF, except Iceland, which does not have its own defence forces. The NRF's response force is also the most important tool in the rapid launch of NATO's collective self-defence operations, if necessary. Therefore, participation in the NRF is also related to Estonia's security. NATO response teams may be used for a collective defence operation under the NATO Treaty as set out in Chapters VI and VII of the United Nations Charter. The use of the NRF is decided unanimously by the NATO Council, which means that the use of the NRF can only take place with the consent of Estonia. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to the first reading in its s. a at its meeting on 11 November. Mr Sven Mikser was present at this meeting as the representative of the author of the draft act. The National Defence Committee also visited s. On 4 November, in the framework of the departure session, the Defence Forces General Staff, where the Commission received an overview from representatives of the Defence Forces of the international missions taking part in the Estonian Defence Forces, including the preparation of the Estonian mine hunter, its staff and staff and staff officers and subordinate officers to participate in NATO's response forces. The National Defence Committee decided s. a At its meeting on 11 November, by consensus, the Board of the Riigikogu will be invited to include the draft under discussion for the first reading in the Riigikogu. On the agenda of the 19 November session, the Riigikogu was asked to conclude the first reading of the draft. The rapporteur was appointed here. In addition, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose a draft deadline for the submission of amendments. a 2 December at 1 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U531	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Lauri Laasi. Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 763. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft. a 2 December at 1 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U532	Our 19th item on the agenda today is the first reading of draft 764 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the execution of the international obligations of the Estonian state in the post-conflict peace-building mission in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria' presented by the Government of the Republic. Before giving the floor to the Minister, I have to pass on the decision of the Committee on National Defence that, on this agenda, Mr Jürgen will be co-presenting Mr Riisalu instead of Mr Ligi. This is the decision of the National Defence Commission meeting held on 19 November. Now for the first reading of the bill. The waitress is Secretary of Defense Sven Mikser.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U533	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Draft Decision 764 concerns the extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the execution of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the post-conflict peace-building mission in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria. This mission is known as UNTSO, short for United Nations Truce Supervision Organization. This is the oldest mission in the United Nations, which began in 1948. Estonia is also participating in this mission this year, and this year the government went to the Riigikogu, asking for our mandate to be increased from three Defence Forces to six, as three of the staff officers had already been filled with active troops and Estonia had the opportunity to contribute to one of the senior officers. That is why, in the middle of the year, we asked for the limit to be increased to six in order to ensure little flexibility. Today, we ask for an extension of the mandate of the Riigikogu to use up to six active troops in this operation during the next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U534	Any questions? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Secretary of Defense. Aivar Riisalu, Vice-Chairman of the National Defence Commission, would you like to speak with me?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U535	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! Indeed, this bill deals with one of Estonia's oldest and long-term positive missions. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to the first reading in its s. a at its meeting on 11 November. Mr Sven Mikser, Minister of Defence, represented the author of the draft, took part in the meeting. The draft is also related to the meeting of the National Defence Commission on 4 November at the General Staff of the Defence Forces, where the members of the committee received an overview from the representatives of the Defence Forces of the events taking place on international missions with the participation of Estonian Defence Forces. The mission is based on UN Security Council Resolution No 50 of 1948 and Estonian Defence Forces have been participating in it as observers and staff officers since 1997. This is a purely UN Blue helmet observation mission. As a member of the United Nations, Estonia contributes to peace in crisis regions. The National Defence Committee decided s. a At its meeting on 11 November, by consensus, the Board of the Riigikogu will be invited to include the draft under discussion for the first reading in the Riigikogu. On the agenda of the 19 November session, the Riigikogu was asked to conclude the first reading of the draft. In addition, pursuant to § 99 (1) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs Act, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the President of the Riigikogu a draft deadline for submitting amendments. a 2 December at 1 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U536	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you, Aivar Riisalu! Any requests? There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 764. First reading is complete. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft proposal. a 2 December at 1 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U537	Our last item today, item 20, reads as follows: The extension of the deadline for the use of the Defence Forces by the Riigikogu in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state on the peace-building mission in Kosovo, first reading of the draft 765. Please report to Secretary of Defense Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U538	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The last draft mission is number 765 and its content is the extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in the peace-building mission in Kosovo. NATO has been active in peace-building in Kosovo since 1999, when an operation known as KFOR (Kosovo Force) was launched to end ethnic cleansing in Kosovo and to create stability and peace. Estonia has already participated in this operation since 1999, and ten years ago it was the largest international operation for us where we participated. Since then, our contribution has gradually decreased, but NATO's action to prevent the revival of hostilities in Kosovo remains necessary. Currently, around 30 countries participate in the Kosovo operation with a total of around 5 000 people. Estonia's current contribution is up to three members of the Defence Forces and the government will also ask the Riigikogu for a mandate to use up to three active troops for the operation of Kosovo for the following year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U539	Thank you very much. Any questions for the Minister? There are no questions. Ms Ene Ergma, Member of the National Defence Committee of the Chair, for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U540	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, According to this draft decision, Estonia will continue to contribute to KFOR, a NATO-led peace-building mission in Kosovo based on UN Security Council Resolution 12441999 of June. Estonia's contribution is up to three active troops, who serve at the KFOR headquarters in Priština. By contributing to the KFOR mission, Estonia fulfils the allied responsibilities arising from NATO membership. Kosovo's stability has a significant impact on the security of both the Western Balkans and Europe as a whole, and the aim of international forces, including Estonia, is to support Kosovo's government in ensuring security and stability in the country. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to first reading. a on 11 November, attended by Sven Mikser, Minister of Defence. On 4 November of this year, the National Defence Commission also held a meeting at the General Command of the Defence Forces, where the Commission received an overview from representatives of the Defence Forces of the international missions taking part in the Estonian Defence Forces, including the situation in Kosovo. The National Defence Committee decided s. At the meeting on 11 November 2010, by consensus, the Riigikogu Board was asked to include the draft under discussion for the first reading on the agenda of the Riigikogu meeting on 19 November 2014. A speaker was appointed to serve as a waitress for the National Defence Committee. In addition, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to invite the Riigikogu to conclude the first reading of the draft under discussion and to propose to the President of the Riigikogu that the draft amendments be submitted by the deadline. a 2 December at 1 p.m. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-19_U541	Thank you very much. Any questions? There are no questions. Any requests? There's no call again. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 765. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of 765 amendments. a 2 December at 1 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, our agenda today has been exhausted and we can also close the sitting within today's date. I wish everyone a beautiful evening. See you tomorrow! All the beautiful and good night! Closure of the sitting at 11:23 p.m.
