ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U1	Let us move on to agenda item 15, which is the first reading of the Bill 753 on Amendments to the Tobacco Act and related laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask Urmas Kruuse, Minister of Health and Labour of the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U2	The honourable President of the sitting! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased to present to you the draft amendment to the Tobacco Act and related laws which the Riigikogu adopted on 21 October. This is a draft aimed at ensuring the protection of the health of people, in particular minors, from the harmful effects of tobacco products. The draft law introduces a ban on the sale to minors of products intended for the use of tobacco products, products and their components similar to tobacco products, and a ban on minors from using, acquiring, possessing and possessing tobacco products similar to tobacco products. We would like minors not to consume products similar to those used in tobacco products and products intended for tobacco products not to be available to minors. The sale of tobacco products to young people and consumption have so far been completely unregulated. Although the current Tobacco Act provides for a ban on the marketing of tobacco products in the form of tobacco products to minors, this has unfortunately proved insufficient. The draft therefore also introduces a ban on the use of products similar to tobacco products in the premises of children's institutions, pre-school children's institutions, primary schools, upper secondary schools, vocational schools, hobbies, open youth centres or youth permanent camps and youth project camps, and in their restricted areas. The aim of the amendment is to ensure the protection of human health, in particular the protection of minors, as the use of products similar to those used in tobacco products (including nicotine-free) normalises smoking as a socially accepted standard of behaviour for minors and creates a favourable environment for tobacco products to be used. E-cigarettes, as the most common tobacco product, emits carcinogenic substances in space and the propylene glycol used as solvent causes irritation of the eyes and airways. Nicotine is also released into the air. Although the quantities of harmful substances in it are lower than cigarette smoke, there is reason to prohibit the use of the product by the abovementioned authorities. The draft bans minors from staying in smoking rooms and smoking areas in order to protect their health. In view of the immediate risk to children's health, restrictions are necessary. The WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control calls on the Contracting Parties to the Convention to implement all requirements of the Convention on smoke-free tobacco for the protection of the health of their citizens, pending the ban on the import, production and sale of products. In view of the risks posed by tobacco products for oral use, the widespread misunderstanding about the safety of the product and the popularity of minors, it is in the interest of public health to prohibit the handling of chewing tobacco in addition to other smoke-free tobacco products, i.e. to prohibit the handling of all smoke-free tobacco products. The bill establishes the quantities of smoking-free tobacco products prohibited for their handling, which may be delivered to Estonia by a natural person for non-commercial purposes, i.e. for personal use with him in mobile luggage, as well as the large quantity of smoke-free tobacco products prohibited for handling, and the prohibition on transporting smoke-free tobacco products to Estonia by mail or other means. The draft implements four measures of the Green Paper on tobacco policy. Firstly, amendments to the tobacco law. Prohibition of the handling of smoke-free tobacco products. From 1 January 2016, the Tobacco Act introduces a large volume of tobacco-free tobacco products not allowed to be handled in 300 packages. It shall be prohibited for a minor to sell or offer for sale a tobacco product, a product intended for use as a tobacco product, a product similar to a tobacco product, a product similar to a tobacco product or a component thereof. When the Advertising Act is amended, the ban on advertising provided for in § 17 also applies to a product intended for the use of a tobacco product and to a product and components similar to a tobacco product. The Penal Code supplements § 376 and adds prohibited tobacco products. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! This is a draft which will help to protect the health of young people in particular. I would like to emphasise once again that we do not want the use of tobacco products, including nicotine-free products, to normalise smoking as an acceptable standard of behaviour in society and create a favourable environment for starting tobacco products. Honourable members of the Riigikogu, I ask you to adopt the law!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U3	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U4	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I would like to clarify what you have said. I mean, can all of this exist in Estonia today and be allowed?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U5	I'm so sorry, I didn't hear the last part of the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U6	I need another microphone for Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U7	I would like to clarify whether what you have spoken about is permitted by our law today.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U8	Honourable questioner! The things I have spoken about are not regulated in such a way as to meet public health objectives. Regrettably, there are no points in the current law that would prevent minors, for example, from staying in the smoking room. In fact, this means that those entrepreneurs who had set up smoking rooms could not in any way prevent parents from bringing minors there. So we were forced to regulate it within the meaning of this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U9	Tõnis Kõiv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U10	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Tobacco use is a serious problem in society. Several people have written to me and complained that smokers are disturbing other people at joint transport stops or that there is a smoke smell in apartment buildings due to a lack of ventilation, causing the risk of passive smoking when a neighbor smokes in the balcony or even in his apartment. Do you think it is possible to regulate this type of interference at the level of the law in any way, or do they have to remain subject to the rules of human relations and law enforcement?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U11	Thank you, Reverend Asker! The legislator is always able to regulate various activities by law. The question is only whether, when and when and whether it is feasible. When it comes to smoking, we remember that decades ago, smoking in public spaces, including entertainment facilities, was relatively common, and it was as if we were used to it. At the moment, at least with the knowledge we have, we can all say that it was extremely reasonable to lay down certain restrictive conditions under which smoking should not be allowed everywhere. If any other public space is to be subject to any other regulation, in any way, then it certainly needs an additional debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U12	Minister, there is another question for you. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U13	Thank you. Dear Minister, I'm asking about your personal experience and exposure to tobacco products. Have you used them, and if you have, were you a minor or an adult?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U14	Thank you. I'm not a smoker. Remembering childhood, this experiment may have lasted a few days, and since then I have never smoked in my life. When we look at statistics, we have to admit that the most likely thing is to start smoking as an adult for those who have tried it as a minor. If you look at how many people have smoked before they were 17 years old, there is a very high probability that the same amount will continue to smoke as adults. Therefore, we cannot tolerate in the draft law the possibility that even imitating smoking would encourage a switch to actual tobacco use. And the same substances used in alternative products are dangerous enough for health.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U15	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Rein Aidma, Member of the Social Committee of the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U16	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. The draft law amending the Tobacco Act and related laws 753 was at first reading in the Social Committee on 3 November. a. The bill was presented by Urmas Kruuse, Minister of Health and Labour, and representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Ministry of Finance and the Tax and Customs Board took part in the discussion. As the Minister gave a sufficiently comprehensive overview of the idea of the regulation of the draft law, I will briefly focus only on the issues raised by the Commission. These, in turn, were more relevant to the taxation of tobacco or nicotine-containing, tobacco-free or nicotine-free smoking tools. The draft under discussion does not deal with taxation issues, but we received a reply from the Customs and Tax Administration that they are still dealing with this issue in their administration and that in the future they want to come to this regulation. The subject of discussion was which countries had previously undergone the kind of changes envisaged in this draft. These countries are Finland and Malta. Finally, the Committee on Social Affairs decided to send the draft 753 to its first reading by 12 November, which has now become 13 November, to propose that the first reading of the draft be stopped and to set ten working days by which amendments should be tabled. The current speaker was appointed rapporteur. All decisions were taken by consensus within the Commission. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U17	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U18	Thank you. Good colleague! I read in the explanatory memorandum that chewing tobacco is banned in Latvia and Lithuania. Whether we're forbidden to do so couldn't count it out. Will there be a ban or won't there be a ban?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U19	Thank you for your question. Chewing tobacco will be banned in the same way, and regulation will go exactly within the scope of this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U20	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? Since I don't see any requests to speak, no negotiations will be opened. The position of the commission is to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 753 amendments. a 26 November at 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the 15th item is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U21	We will move on to the 16th item, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the arms law initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. Hanno Pevkuri, Minister of the Interior of the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu, please present!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U22	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Dear members of the Riigikogu, good morning! A new day has begun, and I am pleased to introduce you to some other laws as an introduction to the civil society debate starting at 10 a.m. First of all, the law of arms. The draft before you is intended to resolve the problems encountered in the implementation of the arms law. The wording of the provisions will be updated and a number of provisions will be clarified in the interests of better understanding and correct interpretation. Due to amendments to the Arms Act, it is necessary to clarify the use of terms in the Strategic Goods Act. In addition, the Strategic Goods Act makes it more flexible to export service and professional weapons and ammunition from Estonia and to Estonia. The State Fees Act regulates the rates of state fees. Following a proposal by the Ministry of Defence, an amendment will be made to the Defence Union Act specifying how the active member of the Defence League can acquire ammunition. In addition, the wording of the Security Act will be amended so that a public oversight act may be drawn up in the future by an official in place of a police officer as provided for in the Act. Now a little bit more specific about the changes. First, the provisions on the granting, exchange and revocation of the acquisition permit and weapons permit are brought into line with the decisions of the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court found that the decision to issue a weapons permit or a weapons permit cannot be based solely on the fact that a person has been convicted of criminal offences or is suspected or accused in the circumstances arising from criminal proceedings. When deciding on a acquisition or weapons permit, the Supreme Court considers that account must be taken of the person who has been convicted of the criminal offence and the act he has committed and of the facts that are the subject of the charge in the case of a suspect or accused person. Secondly, I would point out the problem of not notifying the police or other authorities of non-fire weapons coming from other countries to Estonia and, therefore, it is not known whether the weapons brought to Estonia will be transferred to non-fire control or will be reactivated and placed on the so-called black market. In the draft, we propose a solution that the interested party must inform the police about the introduction of an unarmed weapon into Estonia. A document certifying that the weapon has been deactivated shall be issued in respect of the deactivated weapon. Provision shall also be made for misdemeanour penalties for non-compliance with the requirements for the handling of weapons which do not comply with the non-destructive requirements. A third important change is that weapons are authorised to be deactivated by private legal entities. Currently, it is foreseen that weapons will be deactivated and that persons checking the conformity of deactivated weapons will be authorised to repair or convert the weapon. According to the current standard, the weapon is declared deactivated by the Estonian Forensic Institute. The analysis shows that weapons reaching the EKEI meet the established requirements and that EKEI controls are therefore rather formal. The added value of the ECEI is mainly expressed in a guarantee of reliability, and that is because it is a public body. That is why the solution proposed in the draft is that weapons are subsequently recognised as unfit by a person authorised to repair or convert a weapon by issuing a certificate to that effect. This means that we will lose double control of the Forensic Institute and thereby increase the responsibility of the weapons masters. Fourthly, according to the legislation in force, the non-authorised handling of essential parts of non-processed firearms allows them to be brought to Estonia without police control and therefore there is no right to apply the sanction. After the processing of parts of the firearm which are not finished, a new illegal firearm not registered can be completed from these parts. The draft defines the components of a non-completed firearm as essential components. Liability shall be provided for cases where, in order to avoid restrictions laid down in the Weapons Act, the handling of essential parts of firearms which have been deliberately left unprocessed or essential parts of firearms which have not been deliberately deactivated in accordance with technical requirements is sought. Five. The acquisition of found and inherited weapons has also been simplified. Under the current rules, the acquisition of a weapon inherited or found is possible if the person holds a weapons permit. If the weapon is to be retained for remembrance rather than practical use, it is not necessary to burden the person and the police with applying for and processing the permit. Inherited weapons will be deposited with the police until the new owner decides what to do with the legacy. Because of the inability of the heirs to decide what to do with the weapon, a number of weapons have been concentrated in police warehouses. The proposal is to change this process. In order to facilitate the acquisition of a weapon inherited or found, a weapon found or inherited shall be allowed to be deactivated at the request of the new owner and by a decision of the police. Six. Only the Police and Border Guard Board has the right to carry out the destruction of weapons and ammunition on the basis of the current legal provisions. If criminal proceedings are conducted by the defence police and the court has decided to destroy the confiscated weapon, the defence police will be obliged to hand the weapon over to the Police and Border Guard Board, but it is unreasonable and time-consuming and not based on the particularities of the defence police's work. The proposal is therefore also to give the defence police the right to destroy the weapon on the basis of a court judgment. Seven. The export and transfer of service and professional weapons and ammunition from Estonia will become more flexible. The problem with current law is that the temporary withdrawal and introduction of service weapons and ammunition is subject to authorisation by the Minister concerned. However, in certain cases, such as personal protection, the removal of a service weapon must be decided very quickly. The permit procedure does not correspond to the nature of the police's duties, and that is why it is proposed that in the future the institution that withdraws the service weapon and ammunition from Estonia will send the Estonian Tax and Customs Board a notification stating the details of the shipment. Eighthly, I would point out that when issuing a weapons permit and a purchase permit, we will reduce unnecessary operations and change the rates of state fees to cover the costs of police operations. A few figures, too. In 2013, the police issued 3041 weapons acquisition permits and 8629 weapons permits. As regards the issue of a permit for acquisition and the issue of a permit for weapons, the current law requires the administrative decision of the prefect to be issued in addition to the permit. In order to reduce the administrative burden on the police, it is proposed to remove the obligation to issue an administrative decision. Instead of an administrative decision, the person shall be informed verbally of whether or not the person is granted an acquisition permit and a weapons permit after the examination has been carried out. The rates of state fees for activities carried out under the Arms Act have been unchanged for ten years. When the euro was introduced, the rates of state fees were converted from Estonian kroons into euros, but in essence the rates have not been adjusted or aligned with the actual costs. It is therefore also proposed to adjust the rates of state fees. Finally, there is a subject that, in the light of recent events, maybe also triggers some discussion in the Chamber. In particular, we propose that the conditions for storing weapons should be changed. In the case of individuals and natural persons, the current law provides that the weapon must in any case be kept at home, while the legal person must keep it at the place of storage which he or she has designated. According to the draft, it is also proposed to amend the conditions for holding a weapon to natural persons and to allow them, like legal persons, to hold a weapon at their own designated location, which will be notified to the Police and Border Guard Board and coordinated with the Agency. I believe that this will provide an opportunity to transfer the weapons of natural persons, if all conditions are met, to a much safer location. This could also reduce the risk that weapons held at home by private individuals could be used by those who are not entitled to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U23	Minister, there are also questions for you. Ken-Marti Vaher, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U24	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I was a little confused with your last point, where you pointed out that, in the light of recent events, the possibility of storing a weapon in a place other than a person's home would be created. Perhaps you will also explain how the creation of such an opportunity in itself could somehow organize the storage of weapons compared to what is provided for in the current law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U25	Thank you. I'd love to explain. This bill was prepared before the tragic events in Viljandi, however. Here is a simple example where a private person has secure conditions at the workplace, such as a weapons locker, physical security for access to the legal person's location and electronic security. Such storage conditions are certainly much safer when a person is at home. As you know, you don't have to have a gun in your locker to hold a gun at home. Giving such an opportunity, provided that it is coordinated with the Police and Border Guard Board, which says whether or not deposit is safer, is necessary and reasonable in my opinion. The point is that it should not be restricted, the law should not say in the expression verb that a natural person's weapon must be in his place of residence, but may also be in a location other than that where the PBGB authorises it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U26	Ken-Marti Vaher, another question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U27	Thank you very much. My second question is very simple. At the end of October there was a tragic event in Viljandi, the first school shooting in Estonia. In this case, speculation has been made on possible amendments to laws and other regulations. Has the Ministry of the Interior reached any position on the amendment of certain regulations, or even on certain effects of this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U28	Thank you. Within the framework of this bill, we have, yes, a little bit wondered if we should do anything else. Now, when discussing what was on the table in the Committee on Legal Affairs as well, as to whether all private weapons should be in the weapons closet, recalling this very tragic event, there was a private person at home in the weapons locker and the gun was placed in the weapons locker, the weapons locker was locked, the ammunition was properly separate. Despite that, this tragic event happened. Whether we come up with any changes between the first reading and the second reading, these thoughts are still open. Rather, we would also be happy to discuss with the Commission the ideas that have gathered in the Ministry and then see if we are going to change something further somewhere or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U29	Thank you! No further questions. I would like to ask Marko Pomerants, Vice-Chairman of the Legal Affairs Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U30	Hello, dear Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, those interested in the Arms Act! I have to say that the Minister did well to introduce the bill, and everything important in this bill was cleared. However, it is not the everyday interest of the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs to deal with the arms law, and that is why, in addition to what specifically concerns the draft, we have further questions during the debate. For example, the same question: If a person has only one weapon, should he have a weapons locker? It was explained on the spot that one weapon is primarily the responsibility of the owner of the weapon and that the obligation to have a locker should not be imposed on him by the legislator. There is no such obligation in the law either. The members of the Commission were interested in what happened to the granting of weapons permits to persons who had been convicted of criminal offences in the past. Tarmo Pruuli, adviser to the Ministry of the Interior, who assisted the Minister of Interior, replied that there may be automatic exclusion in certain cases, but for example in cases such as the offences against property, the police have discretion and can decide whether to grant or refuse authorisation. The Commission was also interested in whether the procedure for obtaining a medical certificate required for a driving licence could also be applied to a medical certificate for the issue of a weapons licence. It was explained to us in the Commission that a psychiatric examination is also required to obtain a medical certificate in the case of a weapons permit. Thus, these are medical certificates of different weights. The Commission was also asked about the European firearms passport. There was an interest in reconciling the European firearms passport with the national firearms passport so that two documents were not needed. It was explained that obtaining a European firearms passport was subject to the existence of a national firearms passport. The Commission also asked whether a person who has not been convicted of criminal offences would automatically be issued with a weapons permit. The answer was that the police had discretion as to whether or not to grant a person a weapons permit, but the decision to do so had to be justified. Interest was also expressed as to why it is forbidden to use silencer weapons in Estonia. It was explained that silencers are allowed, for example, in the shooting range, but the main reason for the ban is to ensure the effectiveness of public supervision. This issue has also been covered by another committee, namely the Committee on the Environment, in the framework of the draft Hunting Act. The Commission's debate, which was held on 20 October, unanimously found it reasonable to conclude the first reading in this Chamber. Should this happen, it is proposed that the deadline for amendments be set at 4 p.m. on 26 November 2014. I was appointed rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U31	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. The position of the commission is to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 736 amendments. a on 26 November 2010 at 4 p.m. The first reading is closed and the 16th item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U32	We will move on to item 17, which is the first reading of the Act amending the Act on Assistant Police and Traffic Act 724 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Hanno Pevkuri, Minister of the Interior of the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu, please present!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U33	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu and Chairman of the Riigikogu! It's good to see you on the remote together. Next, I'll introduce you to the law amending the law on assistant police officers and the law amending the law on traffic. As always, first the purpose of the draft and then the changes more precisely. In short, the aim of the draft before you is to make it easier to become an assistant police officer, the procedures for completing the training of an assistant police officer and the involvement of auxiliary police officers in police activities, including prevention. There are still some relatively technical changes and, as is already clear from the title of the draft, we are also amending the law on traffic. Now more about the changes. First of all, becoming an assistant cop. In order to make a substantive assessment of professional fitness, it is proposed to make becoming an assistant police officer similar to becoming a voluntary rescuer and a sea rescuer, in other words, to introduce a professional interview and to waive secondary education requirements. The draft also amends the language requirements of the assistant police officer. A person with B2 proficiency in the Estonian language can be called an Assistant Police Officer, but an Assistant Police Officer who carries out the task independently must continue to have C1 proficiency in the Estonian language. A B2 level of language proficiency does not reduce the ability of an assistant police officer to assist a police officer, given that a person undergoes the necessary training for police action, including obtaining professional terminology, and acts under the guidance of a police officer. Another important change concerns prevention. The aim of the amendment is to enable those who wish to contribute only to police prevention and/or police demonstration to act as a police assistant. Police contribute to prevention in areas such as traffic, violence, addictive substances, crimes against property, corruption and threats online. Persons who commit themselves to prevention do not have to undergo a medical check-up when they apply or during their service. They also do not have the right to use special equipment. Thirdly, I would like to point out that we are planning to make training more flexible and to facilitate the involvement of help police officers. More specifically, the grounds for regulating the handling of special equipment and weapons in the future, including compliance with the conditions and, where appropriate, the keeping of special equipment in the home of an auxiliary police officer living far from the permanent seat of the police, will be clarified. Paragraph 84 (1) (1) of the current Traffic Act defines an alarm vehicle. It provides that an alarm vehicle is a vehicle and an off-road vehicle carrying out urgent duties, duties or tasks during which it is necessary to warn other road users of the presence of such a vehicle. The draft replaces the term 'function' with the term 'public authority function', which gives a clear basis that, if necessary, a police officer may also transfer the driving of an alarm vehicle to an auxiliary police officer. Precept. Under the current law, the injunction may be drawn up by an assistant police officer with independent competence. According to the draft, this right will also be extended to an auxiliary police officer under the direction of a police officer. Security check. Under current law, an assistant police officer, both with independent competence and under the direction of the police, may carry out security checks where this is necessary to counter an imminent increased threat or where a person may be deprived of liberty under the law. The proposal gives the assistant police officer, acting under the direction of a police officer, the right to carry out security checks on the same basis as the police officer. The rights of an independent assistant police officer shall not be extended. A person's examination. The law in force does not give the Assistant Police Officer the right to apply this measure, but it would be reasonable to do so. According to the draft law, an auxiliary police officer may review a person's body, clothing, clothing, or wearing a body if: first, there are reasonable grounds to believe that a person carries with him or her an item or substance which may be taken for legal storage, occupation or confiscation; second, it is necessary to identify an increased risk when a person is present in or in the immediate vicinity of a building which is important for the functioning of public authority. Unlike a police officer, an assistant police officer does not have the right to review the person's cavities, nor does he have the right to review anyone for the purpose of establishing identity. An auxiliary police officer shall have the right to carry out security checks, which shall mean checking the person or his or her clothing by observation or touch or by technical means. However, if a security check suspects that a person is carrying a thing or substance that may be taken into custody, seized or confiscated under the law, the assistant police officer should be able to check it further and, as I mentioned, he/she needs the right to review the person. Checking out an outlaw. The right to apply this measure has not been granted to an assistant police officer under current law, but in practice it has become necessary to apply it. That is why it is proposed that an assistant police officer acting under the direction of a police officer be given the right to apply the measure on the same basis as a police officer. On the other hand, the rights to apply the aid police measure with independent competence are restricted. The latter is granted the right to apply the measure if the movable property is carried out by a person who may be subject to security checks under the law or may be subject to legal review. The need is due to the fact that an assistant police officer with independent competence already has the right to carry out security checks and the proposal also seeks to extend his or her rights to review the person. Entering the estate. According to the current wording, an auxiliary police officer acting under the direction of a police officer may enter, without the consent of the holder, a limited or marked immovable property, building, dwelling or space in his possession, thereby opening doors, gates and removing other obstacles, where this is necessary to identify or deter an increased threat. The amendment grants the same rights to the assistant police officer to enter the holding as a police officer. Checking out the estate. An auxiliary police officer acting under the supervision of a police officer may inspect the premises if there are reasonable grounds for believing that an immovable property, a building or a room, limited or marked, may be deprived of liberty under law or whose life, health or physical integrity is threatened by his or her helplessness. It is now a valid law. The amendment provides for the rights of the assistant police officer to be extended when examining the property and granted the same rights as the police officer. An auxiliary police officer with independent competence shall not have the right to apply the measure. Detention of property. Where, under the law in force, an auxiliary police officer may deposit an movable property identified in the course of a security check by which a person may endanger himself or another person or whose possession is prohibited by law, the assistant police officer shall also have the right to take over the case if it has been established in the course of the examination of the person. We will also stop by direct coercion and the use of a firearm. The draft specifies that an auxiliary police officer may use physical force, special equipment and weapon on the basis and in accordance with the procedures laid down in the law on law enforcement, taking into account the special features of the auxiliary police officer's law. It further provides that an auxiliary police officer is entitled to apply direct coercion under the direction of a police officer where this is strictly necessary to achieve the objective of the police officer's application of the national surveillance measure. Pursuant to § 3 (1) of the Act on Assistant Police Officers, the primary task is to assist the police in preventing, detecting, deterring and eliminating threats to public policy. The application of direct coercion is subject to the existence of a generally valid administrative act and, in most cases, the act should be delivered by a police officer. Since the role of the assistant police officer is to assist the police officer, the assistant police officer should be able to assist the police officer, if necessary, in the application of direct coercion in order to achieve the objective of the measure he applies. For example, a police officer has the right to apply a coercion to establish identity, but an auxiliary police officer does not have that right. It would be unreasonable, however, to give an assistant police officer the right to apply the measure if, in fact, he is responsible for assisting the police officer in applying it, if necessary. It is also unreasonable, for example, to extend the grounds for the right to detention by an auxiliary police officer himself when it comes to the regulation of the detention of a person. Under current law, an auxiliary police officer may only use a weapon for emergency protection purposes in the performance of an auxiliary police officer's task. However, the current practice must be taken into account: if the risk is due to the matter, the emergency rules must be followed if it is to be removed. This means that in the event of an animal attack, an auxiliary police officer will not be able to defend himself with a firearm. Given that a police officer and an auxiliary police officer who has the right to use a firearm have the same training, the draft provides that an assistant police officer is entitled to defend himself against an animal attack by means of a firearm. Finally, some organisational changes. There's no need for an auxiliary cop's badge. Assistant police officers are obliged to wear a safety vest in the performance of their duties and may also use police uniforms, which are usually done. The bill is about losing the badges of an assistant police officer. Due to the desire to create clarity on the reasons for the release, § 42 (4) of the Auxiliary Police Act, which provides for the death of an Auxiliary Police Officer as an additional basis for the release from the status, is added. The Auxiliary Police Act will be supplemented by the Public Service Act and the terms used to date will be replaced by new ones. First, the current reference to the Code of Ethics of the Civil Service Act annexed to the Civil Service Act is replaced by a reference to the Code of Ethics of the Official. Second, the term 'permanent partner' is replaced by the term'marriage partner' used in the Civil Service Act. We support the Committee on Legal Affairs' proposal to conclude the first reading and, hopefully, to adopt the amendments as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U34	Any questions for the initiator of the bill? Väino Linde, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U35	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Although it is early in the morning, I do have one question about the substance of the draft. The draft provides assistance police officers with much greater rights in the protection of public order than the existing law allows. What vital need resulted from the possibility for auxiliary police officers to take the driving wheel of an alarm vehicle after becoming the law on this bill? What's the reason?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U36	Thank you. All the changes have been discussed and started in cooperation with the relief police body, the umbrella organisation of relief policemen, and they have come from everyday work. The question of the use of an alarm vehicle was, in fact, an even wider debate. If an auxiliary police officer has been trained in an alarm vehicle in another service, such as rescue services, why should he not use what he has learned while driving a police vehicle when necessary? And such a need may arise in practice for a wide range of reasons, whether a police officer has been injured or if there is a need to react when a police officer is out of the vehicle and a criminal or offender needs to be picked up quickly. So there is clearly a need from practice. If people are trained, they should be used.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U37	No further questions. The Commission's rapporteur is Kalle Laanet. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U38	Good morning, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed this draft on Monday, 20 October. In addition to the members of the Commission, Mr Hanno Pevkur, Minister for the Interior, Madis Timpson, Legal Adviser to the Department of Law Enforcement and Criminal Policy, Henry Timberg and Adviser to the same department, Eimar Veldre, were invited to the meeting. The members of the Commission were absent from Igor Gräzin and Peter Võsa. The Minister of the Interior presented us with draft 724 and then answered questions from the members of the Commission. As the Minister explained here, the aim is to simplify the process of becoming an assistant police officer, the procedures for completing the training of an assistant police officer and the involvement of an assistant police officer in police action. Like Mr Lindel, there was a question in the Commission which specifically concerned the issue of traffic law and the driving of an alarm vehicle. The minister answered that question more or less in the same way as he answered Mr Linde. It was also asked whether an assistant police officer working alone could be subject to direct coercion or whether a police officer's permission would be required. It was clarified that if an assistant police officer does not have the right to implement an independent special measure, he could not apply an immediate coercion. In such a case, the assistant police officer must ask the police officer for clear instructions on his/her future activities. So what was decided? It was decided, by consensus, to propose that the draft be put on the agenda for the plenary session on 12 November 2014, to close the first reading and to set the deadline for amendments at 16 a.m. on 26 November 2014. I was appointed rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U39	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish to negotiate. The proposal of the Committee on Legal Affairs is to conclude the first reading of draft 724. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 16 a.m. on 26 November.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U40	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Citizenship Act and State Fees Act 737 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Anno Pevkur, Minister of the Interior, will make a presentation on behalf of the initiators. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U41	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Allow me to introduce you to the draft law amending the Citizenship Act and the State Fees Act. The draft is intended to introduce changes that can be divided into three blocks. The first major change is that in the future the minor cannot be deprived of his or her nationality. The current Citizenship Act provides that a person who, in addition to Estonian citizenship, also acquires the citizenship of another state by birth must, within three years of becoming 18, choose whether he or she will renounce the citizenship of Estonia or another state. Thus, in addition to Estonian citizenship, the multi-citizenship of a person who has acquired the citizenship of another country is now legitimate until his 21st year of life. The draft proposes to amend § 3 of the Citizenship Act in such a way that all persons who acquire or receive Estonian citizenship as a minor as well as the citizenship of another state must give up the citizenship of either Estonia or another state within three years of becoming 18 years of age. Thus, the draft provides that children who have received Estonian citizenship by naturalisation are in the same situation as children who acquired Estonian citizenship at birth and that this rule applies equally to both Estonian citizens at birth and persons who have received Estonian citizenship by naturalisation, inter alia, whether the citizenship of another state has been acquired before or after the acquisition of Estonian citizenship. The second amendment is that applicants for citizenship aged 65 or over will have to pass only an oral language examination in the future. If, according to the law in force, the person applying for Estonian citizenship before 1 January 1930 is exempt from the requirement that the person must be able to produce a simple text on an familiar or self-interested subject, this is the written part of the Estonian language examination. According to the draft, the exemption from the written part of the examination is linked to the age of the person instead of the date of birth. I would like to draw attention to two points here. First, when the current Citizenship Act was adopted, the exemption from the written examination was related to people who were 65 years of age and older at the time of the entry into force of the Act, but then this connection was created through their date of birth and the fixed date of birth, as stated, was 1 January 1930. The Citizenship Act entered into force on 1 April 1995. As a result of the government's discussion, it was considered that it would be more reasonable and appropriate not to take into account the date of birth but to fix the age limit. The statistics for recent years show that there have been about ten people over the age of 65 who have received citizenship each year. The second point I would like to emphasise once again is that, in any case, there will also be an obligation for people aged 65 or over to take the oral part of the language examination. According to the draft currently under discussion, they will only be released from the written part of the examination. As a third amendment, I mention the cessation of the reproduction of citizenshiplessness. According to the current law, parents of undefined citizenship can apply for Estonian citizenship for their children born in Estonia in a simplified manner, if the parents have been legally resident in Estonia for at least five years at the time of submitting their application and no country considers them to be a citizen under the laws in force. The draft provides for the opposite situation where a minor under 15 years of age, born in Estonia and moving permanently to Estonia immediately after birth with his or her parents, receives Estonian citizenship under naturalisation from the moment of birth if his or her parents or parent raising the child alone, who is not considered by any state to be a citizen under the laws in force, have been legally resident in Estonia for at least five years at the time of birth. At the same time, the parents will be left with the opportunity to give up the child's Estonian citizenship thus obtained within one year. Due to the amendment of the law, the number of children of undefined citizenship who are entitled to Estonian citizenship would not increase, but as a result of the amendment of the law, children who would otherwise be expected to remain without Estonian citizenship or residence permit due to their parents' lack of activity. The amendment does not therefore increase the number of entitled persons, but would only change the procedure. For parents, it becomes easier and more comfortable because they no longer have to apply for Estonian citizenship for the child. In addition to the above amendments, the draft provides for other changes to simplify procedures for applying for citizenship, allow for more flexibility in the implementation of the law and brings the Citizenship Act into line with other laws. For example, the six-month waiting period following the submission of an application for the acquisition or restoration of Estonian citizenship is abandoned. The bill replaces the requirement to live in Estonia just before applying for Estonian citizenship for five years consecutively with the requirement to live permanently in Estonia for at least five years for eight years. The requests for the acquisition of Estonian citizenship, the lists of data to be provided and the documents to be added in the current Act are also replaced by a mandate rule for the Minister of the Interior. It is unwise to provide for them at the level of the law in circumstances where they may need to be amended more often than the law itself. As the initiator of the draft act and as the representative of the Government of the Republic, I support the proposal of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to conclude the first reading today and to adopt the draft as a law in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U42	There are questions for the originator. Siim Kiisler.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U43	Thank you. Dear Minister, You wish to legitimise that applicants over 65 years of age should not pass the written part of the language examination and you indicated that such a requirement was laid down in 1995 for people aged 65 years and over. I would point out that at the time, the people to whom you want to grant this exception or benefit are 46 years old. What makes you think these people wouldn't have been able to pass this part of the exam in between years if they wanted to? Do you think they have problems with literacy or mental abilities? Why do you underestimate them in such a way that they can only answer orally?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U44	Thank you. I'm sure we don't underestimate them. We're looking at what the law is. The provisions of the current law must also be applicable. If we maintain in the current law that all persons who were born earlier than 1 January 1930 may, after a certain period of time, become empty of substance. There are simply no more persons who would go under this definition, and then we need to look at what the meaning of this provision is and whether this provision is needed. Rather, the point of this provision is that individuals over 65 years of age should be able to take the examination under a simplified procedure; they should take the oral language examination. This is our proposal to the Grand Chamber of the Riigikogu. I hope that this common sense proposal will be supported in the big hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U45	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U46	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! My question also concerns people aged 65+. On the one hand, you offer to free these people from written language exams, but on the other hand, the requirement remains that they perform the Constitutional Exam in Estonian. On the one hand, there is a release, but on the other hand, it is necessary to take a pretty high level exam in Estonian and in writing?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U47	Thank you. I'm about to do the law. When we are talking about knowledge of the Constitution, the Constitution must definitely be known to the applicants for citizenship. Citizenship is a special relationship between a country and a person, and becoming a citizen also means that a person has special rights. One particular right is, among other things, the right to choose the Riigikogu. I understood the point of your question, and I am now looking at this provision in the law. If you have any suggestions for a written constitutional examination, we will review this provision and, at first and second reading, we will be able to formulate a more precise position as to whether it should be changed or not. I do think that the Constitution must be known by the applicant for citizenship, we cannot speak of an Estonian citizen unless he or she knows the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U48	Ken-Marti Vaher, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U49	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You are changing quite a number of the foundations and principles of Estonia's current citizenship policy with this bill. My question concerns one of them, that is to give up the perception that naturalisation requires the will of the person himself or his representative. You are now losing the aspect of this will and, in essence, creating a situation where certain groups of persons are automatically granted Estonian citizenship. You only demand a wish if the representatives of the persons want to give up Estonian citizenship. My question is simple. I did not find a lot of reasons in the explanatory memorandum, which is why you are changing this very important principle of Estonian citizenship policy, which applies primarily to naturalisation citizens.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U50	Thank you for your question. This topic was discussed during the coalition negotiations. If we look at the actual situation and the examples taken from practice, the child is not guilty of failing to submit an application for Estonian citizenship for any reason, even though the child was entitled to Estonian citizenship. It is therefore reasonable that we do not punish children for this. We say that the child has the right to Estonian citizenship if his or her parents have fulfilled the conditions laid down by the Citizenship Act, he or she has lived in Estonia for at least five years. In that case, when the child becomes an adult, he or she will be able to choose which country he or she wishes to be a citizen of. If he or she wishes to remain a citizen of the Estonian state, he or she will remain a citizen of the Estonian state, and if he or she wishes to take the citizenship of another state for which he or she has the right under the law, he or she can do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U51	Siim Kiisler.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U52	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I will continue to ask about the proposal to abolish the written language examination for over 65-year-olds. You said nicely that if one legal provision becomes empty over time, there are two options: either to abolish it or to change it at all. Why have you chosen a change of path? Why do you want some of your citizenship applicants not to take a written examination? After all, people are not the first day in Estonia; they have lived here for years, at least eight years, and, as we know, much of them much longer. They've had a chance to take a language exam before. Why would you want to introduce such a simplification?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U53	Thank you. Our legal provisions are certainly universal, which means that the provision does not apply only to those who have lived here for 20 years or longer. This provision will also apply to those who live in the Republic of Estonia, for example, on this day, live here long enough and then apply for Estonian citizenship. If they are older than 65 years, this provision applies to them as well. So in this sense, it should not be said that all people have been living here for a long time. This provision is universal. The government's proposal is based on the fact that since the current Citizenship Act also provides for easier conditions for older people to perform a citizenship sex, we have decided to continue our choice with the principle that the exam is easier for older people. And that simplicity is that you don't have to do the written part.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U54	Jaak Aaviksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U55	Thank you. I understand that, to a large extent, this bill is driven by the individual people caught between the gears whose problems are, of course, reasonable for humanistic reasons. Now the coalition has chosen to change the fundamentals of citizenship policy to solve such problems and individual cases are being opened to a quite large number of new citizens. Did you not consider the possibility of creating a discretionary mechanism for specific exceptions? We know that we are dealing with a retired soldier who is not being helped by this rigid law again. Then there is the danger that we will make a legislative amendment that will allow all retired soldiers to acquire Estonian citizenship.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U56	Thank you for your question. No, we did not consider making a special provision and giving the government an additional mandate for certain individual cases, or going 'over' to the principles of the law. The principles of the law are to discuss the grand hall of the Riigikogu. The amendments should be universal and allow future challenges to be resolved. Yeah, we discussed whether and how to change the law, and that's why I'm in front of the big hall today.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U57	Ken-Marti Vaher, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U58	Thank you. The word 'punishment' used in your previous reply seemed very surprising. The state of Estonia has, in its current citizenship policy, met considerably the children of parents of undefined nationality and made the will of the representative of the children, which is the principle of citizenship in general naturalisation, basically the sole condition for them. Now you want to change it. I am very sorry, but I do not see any punishment in the fact that it is foreseen that the will must be expressed whether a person or his representative really wants to apply for citizenship. But my question concerns people aged 65 years. What kind of signal do you think you give to people who are currently 62 or 60 years old, or to others who are also expecting access to a part of the Estonian language exam?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U59	Thank you. The signal is exactly the same as in the current law. The law in force simply provides that the only way to take a test is if your year of birth and date of birth are earlier than 1 January 1930. Now we say that it depends not on the date of birth, but on age. If a person wishes to have Estonian citizenship in the past, he or she has the opportunity. If, for some reason, he does not take the citizenship exam earlier, but does it only at the age of 65, he can really count on the fact that the conditions are lighter. The fact that a certain age is accompanied by some differences or certain rights is completely common in Estonian law. Retirement can also take place when a certain age is reached. Ken-Mart Vaher is currently not retiring, has to wait. The age limit for the realisation of certain rights is a fully-fledged instrument of current law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U60	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U61	Thank you. Honourable waitress! From what you have said both in this Chamber and in the Commission, I understand that the political line of this law is reflected in the idea that the current Citizenship Act would put its principles and rules on people who are not Estonian citizens and do not get citizenship lighter, some guilt and punish them for it. Individual people and their practical problems are proposed as pretexts, but instead of solving them in individual proceedings, a change in the principles of citizenship policy has been chosen. We are doing this at night a few months before the parliamentary elections through the package law. Are such things where we are changing the current citizenship policy and creating very fundamental precedents sensible to deal with in such a political environment? Would it not be more appropriate for political parties to apply for a mandate to change the principles of citizenship policy in elections, and after that it will be possible to change such principles of citizenship policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U62	Thank you for this complex legal-linguistic demagogic issue. We also talked about this in the Commission, where I said that such a focus on linguistics will certainly not open up the substance of the law to us any more. If the content of this law is to be opened up, it is indeed the wish of our current government to end the regeneration of citizenshiplessness and to review the bottlenecks that the Citizenship Act currently has. I hope that these bottlenecks will be eliminated with the proposed changes. If Members still have proposals for amendments, they can always be discussed. As for whether we are discussing this at night or at any other time, I am sorry, but this is the decision of the Grand Chamber of the Riigikogu. The decision of the Grand Hall has been today that I stand before you at 1.37 p.m., and I hope that the members of the Riigikogu will ask me intelligent questions that can be answered nicely. So it is the wish of the Riigikogu that this debate will take place tonight at 2:30.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U63	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U64	Thank you. Mr. Minister! In your presentation of the draft, you referred to it as if the idea of the 1995 Citizenship Act had been to permanently exempt people over the age of 65 from the written part of the Estonian language exam. I understand that this bill was currently being drafted with the view that the law does not fulfil the objective which was set for it in 1995. It's not like that. The lawyers and then politicians who were in the process of drafting this law, as well as the officials of the Ministry of the Interior, are unambiguously of the opinion that this rule, which was recorded in the Citizenship Act at the time, was a clear and deliberate political compromise that was realised in the text of the law, precisely as a transitional provision, at the time that the law was enforced. I would like you now to answer my substantive question: why must people over the age of 65 have this special clause, which is its substantive justification?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U65	Thank you. I will then read to you again what I said so as not to say what I have not said or to misinterpret what I said. I said this: upon the adoption of the current Citizenship Act, the exemption from the written examination was related to people who were 65 years old and older at the time of the entry into force of the Act, but then this connection was created through their date of birth and the fixed date of birth was 1 January 1930. The Government of the Republic considers that it would be more appropriate not to refer to the date of birth, but to fix the age limit. The statistics for recent years are that there have been a dozen people over the age of 65 who have received citizenship each year. That's what I said. Yes, our decision was that persons older than 65 years can apply to become a citizen of the Republic of Estonia through an oral examination of the knowledge and understanding of the Estonian Constitution. It was a decision of principle. In principle, we came here to the grand hall of the Riigikogu to realise the decision. If you ask why, yes, it was so that older people than the age of 65 could apply for Estonian citizenship on the basis of the oral examination and knowledge of the Estonian constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U66	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U67	Thank you. Dear waitress, From your answers, I understand you're not comfortable with night work. Have I understood you correctly?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U68	Thank you. I don't want to go into linguistics again, but I should ask 'do I get it right', then the Estonian language is correct. No, you got it wrong, I don't mind a night job. If the Riigikogu wishes to see the minister at night, the minister will come to the Riigikogu at night.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U69	I understand Urmas Reinsalu is a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U70	Thank you, Mr President. While the Minister expressed his willingness to work at night, perhaps the decision that today's agenda is so long was not justified. I see that this long agenda and the night sitting will no longer allow for clear and precise answers. My question was very clear: why was such a decision made that a mitigating clause would be introduced for people over 65 years of age? The only answer I received was this: it was the decision we discussed, and it was a fundamental decision. Why this decision was made, I didn't get an answer to that. Maybe if we take some time off and come back to it more calmly, day after day, we'll get a meaningful answer. Not like there was a decision. I didn't get an answer to the question of why this decision was made. It was rather a reference and a reply to the President of the sitting on the planning of our work and agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U71	At this point, I must say that the procedural question is a question. The publication of an opinion here is completely unprofessional and does not fit into the procedural question in any way. Any more questions for the waitress? No, it's not. The Commission's co-rapporteur is Indrek Saar. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U72	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The Constitutional Commission discussed this draft law at its meeting on 6 November. a. Hanno Pevkur, Minister of the Interior, Ruth Annus, Head of the Migration and Border Guard Policy Department of the Ministry of the Interior and adviser to the same department were invited. Mr Pevkur, as Minister, gave an overview of the content of the draft law, just as he did here in his presentation. Following the debate, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 12 November. a. The decision was consensual. Secondly, it was decided to propose the termination of the first reading, in favour of 6, against 2, with 0 abstentions. Thirdly, it was decided to propose ten working days for the amendments, i.e. 26 November. 5.15 p.m., 6 votes to 0, with 2 abstentions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U73	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Centre Party Group, Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U74	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, In recent months, the Government of the Republic has submitted three drafts to the Riigikogu, which contain amendments tabled by the Centre Party over the years, which have not been supported by the Government of the Republic so far. As you can see, it took some time to think. Today we have before us a draft law on citizenship. This is an area that the Centre Party has been talking about for years. If my memory doesn't deceive me, we've been making various suggestions at least eight times over the past ten years. Today, citizenship is not only a sign on paper, such as a woman or a man, but a definition of who I am and where I belong. As stated in the executive edition of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, the establishment of rules relating to citizenship policy, especially naturalisation, is largely a matter of political choice. Let us see what choices have been made in the context of the draft under discussion. First of all, the current government has chosen a path that gives children under 18 years of age the right to Estonian citizenship automatically, provided that one of the parents has Estonian citizenship or both parents are stateless persons or the child has only one parent and the parent is a stateless person. This approach guarantees the child the right to be a citizen of a country designated by his or her parent. If the parents have not appointed it, the child will become a citizen of the country of birth. On the one hand, I understand the purpose of such principles, but on the other hand, this is an unfair situation for children who have one of their parents, for example, Russian citizenship and the other is a stateless person. Only children of Russian citizenship continue to be born into such a family, despite the fact that children are born in Estonia, go to school here and live according to the principles of the Estonian state. The Centre Party considers that these children must also be entitled to Estonian citizenship automatically, without any conditions. Secondly, the issue of double citizenship still remains confusing. Although this draft provides an exception for children under 18 years of age, it is still a choice to dissuade them from their citizenship. And this is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. This means that our constitution does not allow the citizenship acquired by birth to be taken away from anyone. Nevertheless, in the future, a child who has double citizenship will be obliged to decide whether to remain a citizen of one country or another when he or she reaches the age of 18. For example, if one parent of the child is Estonian and the other is Russian, he or she is most likely to have two citizenships when he or she becomes an adult. He's both born. This means that the child is forced to give up one or another nationality. The obligation to make a choice is also a withdrawal within the meaning of the Constitution, because it is not possible to retain both nationalityes. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U75	Please, an extra three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U76	It therefore remains unclear how it is possible to adopt a political decision that is contrary to our constitution. Thirdly, the draft concerns older people who are released from written language exams. However, the oral examination, the requirements of which are not relaxed, will remain in force and everything else will remain in place. Freeing these people from the written exam is a relief, but not a solution. The Centre Party considers that older people, regardless of their old age, are valuable people, who should have their citizenship simplified, primarily because they are given the opportunity to enjoy their old age with dignity, belonging to our Estonian citizens. We believe that people aged 65+ should be exempted from the Estonian language exam and directed to the relevant language courses, the compulsory completion of which is a prerequisite for obtaining citizenship. I will add a question and an answer. On the one hand, the draft provides for the release of a written examination of the language, on the other hand, the examination relating to the Constitution in Estonian will remain. In this sense, there is a contradiction or, let's say, a strange situation. Finally, I would like to say that this draft is at least a step forward towards understanding, but much is still missing to be perfect. Nevertheless, we support the draft, but we will certainly table our amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U77	On behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union Jaak Aaviksoo, please! I'll give my colleague extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U78	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Citizenship Act, the issue of citizenship at all, is one of the most important and central issues for the state and the people, because it designates the people who, as citizens, carry this country and stand for their survival. Therefore, any issue of citizenship should not be resolved superficially or even by individual problems, not to mention the principle of yielding to external pressure. I think we can say today, almost 20 years after the adoption of the current Citizenship Act, that this law has served us well. He has struck the continuity and durability of the Republic of Estonia on the one hand, just as stated in the preamble to our constitution. In other words, he has guaranteed human rights to all people living under the jurisdiction of the Republic of Estonia. He is in line with the principles of international law, and the problem we call citizenshiplessness will gradually be resolved. I sincerely regret that the Minister saw the problem of citizenship in the reproduction of citizenshiplessness by the Republic of Estonia. I would remind a good colleague that citizenship has not been produced by the Republic of Estonia, but by the state that occupied the Republic of Estonia. So I find the reproach on the Republic of Estonia on this issue inappropriate and embarrassing. Of course, we have not forgotten the debate about the zero option 20 years ago. I have lived after the adoption of the Citizenship Act in understanding that there has been, if not a consensus, a rather broad understanding of the basic principles of the Citizenship Act established in 1995. Today I feel like I'm lost. Of course, through decades, we have been pressured from outside to withdraw from the nullity of citizenship or towards a slightly softer solution, which will gradually lead to the same end in the next two decades. I find it difficult to understand this way of thinking, which is based on the understanding that external pressures from basically other grounds could somehow disappear and become null and void if we make one compromise after another, in the hope that we will do the same thing. We do not have a thing in common, and if we do not have a thing in common, then we will do the Estonian thing. That would be an introduction. True, citizenship law is not ideal. The Citizenship Act is made rigid for reasons that I understand. Mart Nutt explained this principle a little in his article today when he said that avoiding exceptions and excluding individual procedures was a political choice that might no longer be justified in the current situation. Therefore, the problems associated with the Kohtla-Järve girl, the retired soldier or perhaps even dozens of people who have been caught by the gears should be solved somehow, in a different way, in a more human way, not in principle. Of course, the law must not be evil, and the evil law must be changed, but changing the evil law does not require the goal-kicking. We read from quite the first page of the explanatory memorandum to the current draft that the draft relates to the points of the Reform Party and the Coalition Agreement between the Social Democratic Party. That is, in fact, the only reason for this bill. A few pages forward it has been said that this same coalition agreement, and it seems to me that the forthcoming elections, too, have included the urgency of the draft procedure. The word 'quick nature' isn't my design, it's taken from this very explanatory note. What, then, is the cost of this compromise? Citizenship policy has four basic principles: blood, not birth, polycitizenship, naturalisation on the basis of a declaration of intent, and language requirement. It is not a spite, it is an instrument to ensure compliance with the principles laid down in the preamble to the Constitution. All these four principles this bill dilutes, changes in principle. So I get the impression that instead of resolving individual cases, we have unfortunately given in to interests and forces, which were not supposed to serve the interests of the Republic of Estonia in the best possible way, as well as a better understanding of our party. I therefore propose, on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, to reject the draft law amending the Citizenship Act and the State Fees Act 737 at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U79	On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U80	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I am probably the only one in this Chamber who was present when the same nullity as Mr Aaviksoo was discussed. And I have to say that the comparison of this meaning and context with the draft that we have on the agenda today does not stand for any criticism. The null option was then rejected, it was done correctly, and that is the way it is. The second news to me is that our citizenship law is blood-based. That is a claim I have never heard before, and I have never interpreted the Citizenship Act that way either. But all right. I am pleased that an agreement has been reached in the Government Coalition on the purely humane changes to the Citizenship Act presented to us today. Indeed, these changes have different meanings. By allowing people over 65 years of age to take the Estonian language exam only orally, we simply return to the original idea of the Citizenship Act. The law adopted in 1995 already provided for this possibility, as has been said here, for people born before 1930, so who were 65 years old. Now these people are 84 years old and this provision has become meaningless in substance. It is humane to return to the original idea of the law and not to require people of retirement to pass a written language examination. Besides, as we have heard, there have been a dozen of these people a year. By providing for the possibility not to take Estonian citizenship from minors or beneficiaries of international protection who, for objective reasons, cannot give up the citizenship of another country, we will retain citizenship until the age of 18, also at this pro-Estonian Kohtla-Järve girl, for which we were invited a year ago by President Ilves and the then Prime Minister Ansip. It is clear that such cases are very few, but unfortunately, over the years 200 minor Estonian citizens have been deprived of citizenship. By automatically giving Estonian citizenship to children born in Estonia, whose parents are permanent residents of Estonia, but without the stateless, we will indeed end the production of citizenshiplessness. We all know that such a decision has long been awaited from us by various international organisations since the United Nations. I dare say that, 20 years ago, when many foreign countries met us and accepted the so-called 'grey passport' as a travel document, no one knew that our integration policy was so'successful' that we had 89000 more of these statuses later and that they would be born every year. We read in the explanatory memorandum that such children are born in Estonia around 300 a year. I remember that in the second half of the 1990s, when the Government of the Republic, to which I had the honour to belong, took the first step in this direction and allowed such children born in Estonia to enjoy naturalisation on the basis of the wishes of their parents, there were also many doubters and intimidations who spoke about the revision of the fundamental principles of the Citizenship Act. Now we can see that in 16 years we have certainly gained 13500 good Estonian citizens, and this has in no way endangered the Estonian state rather than rocked the fundamental principles of our citizenship. What is important, however, is that the current government coalition is the first of many years, who have viewed the Citizenship Act not as a sacred letter from heaven, but as a law aimed at strengthening the Estonian rule of law, increasing the coherence of our society and increasing the loyalty of the entire population to the Estonian state, just as all other laws adopted in this Chamber by the authorised representatives of the people. It is already clear that the Citizenship Act will continue to need to be adapted to the requirements of time. I am thinking repeatedly of the question raised in this Chamber of allowing double citizenship to the citizens of Estonia after birth, in order to eliminate the incompatibility with the Constitution and not to reject the children of thousands of Estonian citizens who have moved abroad from our citizenship, who will also acquire the citizenship of their new homeland. It was only this week that the press highlighted the case that our government does not even have the discretion to grant citizenship to a person who, by his actions in 1989, showed his own spirit and was requested by the founding members of the ERSP, Lagle Parek and Eve Pärnaste. Can I have one more minute, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U81	Please, an extra three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U82	Such cases, like the case with Kohtla-Järve's girl, are startling, completely irrational and, of course, call for the rapid intervention of the legislator. I hope that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will find a suitable way to bring the bill to second reading to find a solution to the problem of this good person, which Mart Nutt, in the Postimees today, referred to. The Social Democratic Party supports the drafting of this draft into a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U83	There are no more requests for negotiation. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has proposed to conclude the first reading of draft 737. The Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance has proposed to reject the draft 737 at first reading. That is what we need to vote on. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union to reject the draft 737 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There are 10 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, 43 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. First reading of Bill 737 is complete. I will set the deadline for the amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 26 November.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U84	Our next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on Safety at Sea and the Law on State Fees initiated by the Government of the Republic. The initiator will be presented by Urve Palo, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U85	Good morning, Mr. Chairman. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! This draft amends the Maritime Safety Act and the State Fees Act. First of all, I will talk about the amendments to the law on maritime safety. The amendments to the Maritime Safety Act relate in particular to the alignment of national law with the relevant European Union legislation, directives. The rules for keeping the passenger list on national shipping lines, the regulation for the issue of security inspections and security certificates and the technical implementing provisions concerning the admissibility of the marketing and installation of marine equipment shall be taken over. I'll tell you more about the changes. In accordance with Directive 98/41/EC, for passenger ships carrying out voyages of more than 20 nautical miles, a personal register must be established and coordinated with the Maritime Administration. The purpose of this amendment is to improve the safety of passengers and crew and the possibilities for rescue on passenger ships moving between ports of the European Union and to ensure that search and rescue work and dealing with the consequences of a possible accident are more effective. For domestic passenger transport only the Ringsu-Roomassaare and Ringsu-Pärnu lines are subject to the requirement. All other lines, such as shipping lines between the mainland and Muhu County and between the mainland and Hiiumaa, fall outside the scope because they are less than 20 nautical miles long. In the case of the Väinamere Lines of the Ruhnu shipping company, the system has not been formally established, but it has now been technically developed and the costs of establishing the register have been reimbursed to the company from the state budget. Second. Pursuant to Directive 2012/35/EU of the European Union, the permissible alcoholic strength shall be reduced during the watchkeeping service of the ship. The Directive provides that, in order to prevent alcohol abuse, Member States shall establish a maximum alcoholic strength of 0,5 milligrams in one gram of blood or 0,25 milligrams in one litre of breath for masters, officers and other seafarers to carry out their duties in the field of maritime safety, maritime security and protection of the marine environment. At present, the corresponding rates are 0.8 milligrams per gram of blood and 0.4 milligrams per litre of air. A similar change will be introduced for recreational craft. According to the Maritime Safety Act, both the person present in the watchkeeping service of the ship and the driver of the recreational craft are responsible for ship safety and navigation, which means that the limits imposed on them are equivalent, i.e. both in the current law and on the basis of the draft. In the case of recreational craft, practice has shown that the number of boat accidents caused by alcohol drinking remains relatively high (including cases where people were rescued) and has shown some upward trend in 2014. In addition, the introduction of the amendments takes into account the fact that recreational craft can be used for leisure trips and for up to 12 persons, which is why the reduction of the permitted limits for recreational craft drivers is also aimed at ensuring greater passenger safety. A little bit of an amendment to the state fee law. The main objective of the amendments to the State Fees Act is to simplify the procedures for the calculation of state fees relating to the technical supervision of ships. The draft removes the existing specifications of a ship classified or not, the age-related coefficients of the ship, etc., and transfers the current model for calculating the state fee based on the length of the ship to the calculation scheme based on the working hours of the supervising officer. On the basis of the 2010 amendment to the State Fees Act, the state fee for the technical inspection of the ship is currently calculated on the basis of the length of the ship, i.e. the metres. The current scheme does not take into account the technical complexity and condition of the vessels. This led in practice to multiple price increases and was, at the same time, too burdensome for certain types of vessels, floating equipment. As a result, there were often situations where the practical use of several floating devices was abandoned. The Chancellor of Justice has also pointed out the problems of the current methodology for calculating state fees in the case of mobile floating equipment in his memo. As a result, the draft has changed from the overall length of the ship to the survey time scheme on the basis of the scheme for calculating the state fee. Thus, the technical complexity of the ship and the condition of the ship become more important. The smaller the time taken for the technical inspection, the lower the state fee. This principle is also fairer with regard to the shipowner. In particular, the change will have a positive impact on owners of historic vessels, mobile floating equipment and smaller fishing vessels. The inspection of such ships is not complex due to the lack of technical equipment and navigational equipment and the size of the supervising officer is smaller than that of large ships, which should lead to a significant reduction in the state fee paid for the new calculation. This amendment is also important for the development of Estonian maritime heritage. All Estonian historic ships have a passenger transport certificate, which means that, according to the Maritime Safety Act, they must have at least five full inspections and two dock inspections during a five-year period. Given that the owners of historic ships are primarily business-loving maritime enthusiasts, one of the objectives of which is to restore marine culture, high fees may give rise to a setback to the development of this sector. The bill adjusts the rates of state fees for the issue of some diplomas and certificates for crew members. Most of these state fees have been set in November 2008 and have remained unchanged until now. At the same time, the real costs of printing and issuing documents have increased considerably, as illustrated by the increase in the consumer price index. The state fee for diplomas and certificates for crew members will increase to a small extent, correspondingly EUR 5 up to now EUR 3.19 and EUR 15 instead of the current EUR 12.78. In this regard, I would like to point out that, since the Riigikogu is at the same time in the process of preparing the full text of the new State Fees Act 725, which should enter into force on 1 January 2015, the amendments to the State Fees Act will be dealt with within the framework of the above-mentioned draft. The Riigikogu has also tabled an amendment to this effect to the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U86	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U87	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress, good minister! Urve, please explain to me this! You operated here with figures, or you didn't actually mention the bill, but you said that there are statistics that show that the number of accidents involving recreational craft has been in an increasing trend, and that is why we need to lower the alcohol limit for the drivers of recreational craft. At the same time, the Maritime Administration has shown that the Maritime Safety Act applies only at sea and on navigable inland waterways that there have been two such accidents in 2013 and three in 2014. In any of these cases, alcohol has had nothing to do with it. My question to you is that if the Ministry of Economic Affairs has come up with some false data and the Maritime Administration has corrected them, whether you are ready to make some kind of change yourself before we go very far with the draft, or if you expect the members of the Riigikogu to make such an amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U88	Thank you. I'm having a hard time checking out the information you've provided. I've got what's been presented to me in front of me. It's hard to comment, maybe you're right, but where this mistake has occurred, I can't tell you right now. It is, of course, a matter for each country to what extent seafarers are allowed promills, and these rates vary greatly from one country to another. It is 1.0 in Finland, for example 0.5 in Latvia, but 0.2 in Poland, 0.4 in Lithuania, 0.5 in Germany, 0 in Russia. So I can really say, then, that much strength for Parliament! Discuss, and if you have a better idea, why not, you can propose improvements. We have now acted in our best knowledge.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U89	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U90	Thank you. Good minister! Can you specify whether the changes in the limit values for alcohol are due to a desire to increase safety at sea or to a European Union directive? There are two ways to understand the draft and, frankly, the explanations of your administrative officials have been a little confusing. I'd like to learn how much space and discretion we have here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U91	This is so that, overall, in the European Union, this direction is that they be reduced. In Finland, for example, this rate is 1.0, but as I have been told, they are also discussing it now to bring it down. I don't know where there's a discussion about whether the rate could be higher. The trend is to take it down. However, I have realised that the directive does not say exactly, at least not now, where this limit must be.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U92	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U93	I also agree that the draft explanatory memorandum refers directly to the European Union Directive, which, however, does not explicitly lay down any requirements for recreational craft. So we have nothing to take over. As the captain of a recreational craft and as a practically full-flyer, I dare defend the tradition that is in Estonia. I do not demand that we raise any limit in any way, this is not my proposal. My suggestion is simply that we do not go to touch one tradition, which has caused no one to suffer in Estonia. I see no reason why we should start lowering this threshold. My suggestion is quite certainly that you contact the people of the Maritime Administration and try to synchronise the information fields between the people of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Maritime Administration somehow. I don't know if there was a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U94	Thank you. Once again, I find it difficult to comment on the information you have provided. I have information from my officials that says that the number of accidents has increased, including because of drunk drivers. I don't have the information you have right now, and I can't compare, but it's obviously possible to do it later. However, I say that Parliament always has the right to make its proposals and suggestions for improvement. So if you want to, why not?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U95	Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U96	Thank you, Mr President, and a good minister. Unlike previous questioners, I am interested in the subject of inspection and payment of state fees. Does the draft prepared by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications also provide for the use of coefficients due to individual peculiarities in relation to the average speed of the work of the overseers?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U97	I understand the irony of your question, but, as the specialists in the Ministry of Economic Affairs have explained to me, the hourly and minute-based calculation of work that we propose is very common in this area. It's nothing new. There are many areas where this has long been the case and there has been no abuse. You can give the opposite example if you have heard that a public official abuses this method of calculation. The current methodology, which has a meter-based calculation, is not fair for the same reasons that I was talking about. Indeed, it is not right to estimate the length of time it took to inspect the ship. Ships are so diverse and of varying degrees of complexity.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U98	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U99	Thank you. I will return to these alcohol restrictions once. The people of this sector themselves have proposed to reduce the permitted limit on those grounds and on those captains who make commercial journeys. There could essentially be a ban on alcohol consumption, but not to touch the "fun blossom" grounds. How do you personally view this proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U100	As I said before, there are up to 12 people on these very small ships. There's a lot of people and a lot of responsibility. As a result, these proposals have been made, and I do not think that anyone is arguing that alcohol content in the blood is distracting attention and also the reaction rate. I can't resist the exact numbers of accidents caused by drunk drivers. I have general information that this has happened. You can check it out. I stress that the Riigikogu has the opportunity to make amendments and to deal with them. I'm not able to answer how I personally feel about this right now. I'm not an expert at this level to tell you if this promill has to be a little bit either way. I trust specialists who have put this bill together.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U101	Rein Lang, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U102	Thank you. Of course, the Minister is not going to know everything, but maybe you could tell me who exactly told you at the Ministry of Economic Affairs that there have been more accidents with recreational craft lately, and that is why we need to go to the limit of alcohol consumption. Tell me exactly who gave you this information.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U103	I don't think we need to make an example here. That name doesn't give you anything. In our ministry, there is a department that deals with maritime issues, there is a draft that has been developed and the basic materials of the bill have come from there. Of course, this work has been carried out by specialists, people who work in this field every day.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U104	There are no further questions for the initiator of the bill. The Commission's rapporteur is Tiit Tammsaar. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U105	Mr. Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Good sailors! Of course, it is really good to discuss maritime safety here at 3:00. The Commission discussed the draft law amending the Maritime Safety Act and the State Fees Act on 3 November. Minister Urve Palo and Jaak Satellite, Head of the Aviation and Maritime Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications gave a comprehensive overview of the draft. Since the Minister also gave a thorough overview here and the discussion was still focused on the same key points We discussed what we were discussing, but we finally reached such a decision: to put the draft on yesterday's agenda, to propose that the first reading be stopped, this was a consensual decision, and to set the deadline for amendments at 10 working days, 26 November at 17:00. That's all for short. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U106	Are there any questions for the Commission's rapporteur? It is. Rein Lang, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U107	Thank you. The Minister's wife still could not tell us exactly who had the phenomenal idea of changing the current regime. The Commission couldn't explain where the idea came from, could it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U108	Thank you, Mr. Lang! The point is, as you yourself perfectly know, that the capacity and brain potential of the Ministry is undoubtedly greater than that of a modest committee, which is that it is a very well-managed and very strong Commission, as is the Committee on Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U109	After such a good answer, of course, there are no more questions. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish to negotiate. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the first reading of the draft. I will set the deadline for the submission of draft 738 amendments at 17:00 on 26 November.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U110	Our next item is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Aviation Act and the State Fees Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Urve Palo, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, will make his presentation. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U111	Dear Chairman, Brave colleagues! Especially many brave ones, I see, are from the Reform Party. It's 3:30. I'm glad you're spending time here with me. It's an honor and a pleasure. This draft introduces amendments to the Aviation Act and the State Fees Act. In particular, the draft aims to increase aviation safety and to raise the level of aviation safety culture in general, taking into account European Union law, international civil aviation standards and recommendations, as well as operational bottlenecks in the aviation sector. First of all, the amendments to the Aviation Act. First of all, according to the draft, the regulation of the rules on flights established in Estonia at national level is repealed. Instead, the common rules of the European Union will apply from 4 December 2014, as well as national rules and derogations from European regulation, as well as differences from the European Commission's implementing regulation. Secondly, the draft has designated the Authority as the competent authority within the meaning of the implementing regulations adopted pursuant to Regulation No 216/2008 of the European Union, unless otherwise provided for in the law. This approach eliminates the need to amend the aviation law every time the new implementing rules enter into force. Thirdly, two of the standards set out in the Annexes to the Convention on International Civil Aviation concerning the national aviation safety programme and the simplification scheme will be transposed. The aim of the National Aviation Safety Programme is to organise aviation safety related areas at national level, while supporting the harmoniously efficient development of all air transport. More broadly, there is national interest, as well as the principle of the Aviation Safety Programme, to ensure coordinated and effective monitoring of the management of the risks already identified and likely to arise in aviation safety, so that the development and diversity of air transport are not disrupted. Fourthly, national regulation is introduced for aircraft not certified by the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA). These are, for example, An-2, L-39 and partly balloons. The development of the regulation takes account of the fact that European Union regulations regulate primarily airworthiness requirements for aircraft used in international commercial air transport or other commercial operations, while non-EASA aircraft are primarily operated for private purposes. In view of the purpose of the operation, the requirements for the continuing airworthiness of non-EASA aircraft and the requirements for persons involved in its organisation are somewhat less stringent than those for the continuing airworthiness of aircraft used in commercial air transport. These aircraft are included in the aircraft register maintained by the Authority around 60. A total of 169 aircraft are included in the register. Fifthly, different aspects of aviation security are being changed in the light of the European Union legal framework. For example, the procedures for recognising a regulated supplier of in-flight supplies, a known consignor, a regulated agent and a security instructor are regulated. These are persons responsible for the application of security measures for cargo, mail and in-flight supplies. Sixthly, as a new issue, the law regulates the obligation to certify an air procedures provider. This is a person who develops standard instrument arrival, instrument approach or instrument departure procedures for aircraft. The change was due to the deficiencies identified during the ICAO aviation safety audit in May 2010, according to which Estonia does not have a legal basis for national supervision of the operator of aviation procedures. The above provisions establish and monitor a legal framework under which the Authority will be able to certify and supervise flight procedures professionals if the procedures are in accordance with the established conditions. Seventhly, as a new task, the Authority will monitor compliance with the parachute requirements by means of a manual describing the parachute operations. The aim of the amendment is to increase safety levels in the organisation and execution of parachute jumps. The draft has also introduced other changes due to the problems encountered in practice and the need to modernise regulation. For example, the working and rest requirements of civil aircraft crew members have been substantially improved or specified. As regards the amendments to the State Fees Act, they set the fees for the conduct of the following procedures: recognition of the security instructor, recognition of the person applying security measures, recognition of the regulated supplier of in-flight supplies, recognition of the known consignor, recognition of the regulated agent, application for coordination of the Code of Conduct for Parachuting Operations and examination of the application for the issue, amendment and extension of the certificate of the flight procedures officer. That's all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U112	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Rein Lang, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U113	Thank you. Can't you explain exactly what the requirements are for balloons?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U114	Thank you for your question. I'm afraid I can't tell you exactly. But we can, if we have a wish, send you a written reply. I'm sure the requirements are very good.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U115	There are no further questions for the initiator of the draft. Thank you. The Commission's rapporteur is Arto Aas.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U116	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good spectators! The draft law was discussed by the Economic Committee of the Riigikogu on 3 November 2014. In addition to the members of the Commission, Minister Urve Palo and Gerli Rebane, Head of the Aviation and Maritime Department of his Ministry, were invited. The Minister has already given an excellent overview of the substance of the law, which I will not repeat. Two further questions were raised in the Commission. The first question was why the law contains a very specific and detailed regulation of working and rest periods. The second question concerned why the aviation security training scheme has been regulated at the level of the law. This regulation is extremely detailed and quite bureaucratic. These questions also received substantive answers. In summary, it was proposed that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments be set at 10 working days, 26 November 2014 at 17.00. All decisions were taken in a consensual manner.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U117	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. I'm opening negotiations. There are no negotiating requests. First reading of Bill 740 is closed and the deadline for tabling amendments is 26 November at 17:00.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U118	Our next item is the first reading of the draft Act 748 on the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on Trafficking in Human Beings initiated by the Government of the Republic. Andres Anvelt, Minister of Justice, will make a presentation from the initiator's side. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U119	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Good morning, then, for me too. I thank everyone for the opportunity to be the anchor of your very important sitting today. The Government has submitted a draft act ratifying the Council of Europe Convention against Trafficking in Human Beings to the Riigikogu for discussion. The purpose of this draft is to ratify the above-mentioned convention and then to implement it later in Estonia. The Convention was opened for signature already on 16 May 2005 in Warsaw. Today it has been signed by 43 and ratified by 41 Member States of the Council of Europe. Estonia and the Czech Republic are the only Member States of the European Union that have not yet ratified the Convention. The bill has a direct impact on the fulfilment of Estonia's international obligations. Since Estonia signed the Convention on Trafficking in Human Beings already four years ago, the expectation of joining it is also very high. As we know, in recent decades, the European Union has become a destination for immigrants from different continents. In this context, the pressure on Estonia's borders is also increasing, which is why ratification of this convention is vital. As we know, illegal immigration is linked to cross-border crime, particularly smuggling of people, labour slavery, etc. Our good geopolitical location is also economically a risk factor that pressure on Estonia's borders as a transit country will increase in the future. The Convention has three broad objectives. Firstly, to prevent and combat trafficking in human beings. Secondly, to protect the rights of victims of trafficking in human beings, to establish a general set of standards for the protection and assistance of victims and witnesses. The Convention also seeks to ensure effective investigation and prosecution. The third objective is to promote international cooperation against trafficking in human beings. Since the requirements of the Convention are largely in line with those of the European Directive on Trafficking in Human Beings, which we have already amended several laws and trainings in this area, there is no longer any need for additional time to adapt to the requirements of the Convention. In Estonia's circumstances, these objectives have mostly been transposed through the Victim Assistance Act, the Penal Code and the Procedural Laws, as well as through several development plans and planned measures. So I ask you to support this bill!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U120	Any questions for the initiator? No, it's not. Thank you, Minister. The Commission's rapporteur is Jüri Morozov. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U121	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, I will then give an overview of what happened in the Riigikogu's Legal Affairs Committee. The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the draft law on ratification of the Council of Europe Convention against Trafficking in Human Beings on 3 November. Minister Andres Anvelt, Minister Kristen Kanarik, Deputy Secretary-General of Criminal Policy at the Ministry of Justice, Kristel Siitam-Nyir, and Adviser to the Department of Penal Law and Procedure, Anne Kruusement, were invited to the debate on this item. I believe that the explanations given by the Minister as to why this draft is necessary and why it is in our proceedings were understandable and sufficient. The Commission took the following decisions: It was first decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 12 November, and the day after that it has now arrived in this Chamber. The second proposal was to conclude the first reading and set the deadline for amendments at 16 a.m. on 26 November. The rapporteur for the Commission was appointed here. All the decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U122	There are no questions for the Commission's rapporteur. I'm opening negotiations. There are no negotiating requests. First reading of Bill 748 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 16 a.m. on 26 November.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U123	Our next item is the draft law amending the Penal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 751. Andres Anvelt, Minister of Justice, will make the opening statement. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U124	Thank you. I will then continue my mission in the Night's Riigikogu and introduce you to the draft law amending the Penal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure. This is a very important draft for both security and day-to-day policy. The aim is to prevent crimes against the state, the preparation of which has taken place outside the Republic of Estonia, and to ensure a faster and more effective response to the more dangerous crimes at the border. The amendments will also provide a better opportunity to deal with such crimes. This draft has also been accompanied by one of the obligations of the Council of Europe under the Convention against Trafficking in Human Beings, which has not yet been regulated in our laws, which is to reduce the possibility of keeping people in so-called document custody. As we know, and as I mentioned in my previous speech, pressure on our external borders has increased and the number of registered crimes has increased in the irregular crossing of the state border or temporary control line of the Republic of Estonia. In order to ensure that security is not only enhanced by physical protection, but also by legal means, i.e. legal deterrents, this draft has been put into effect. New year's illegal border crossing would then be punishable as a criminal offence against the state, if it involves violence or threats, deprivation of liberty from another person, or if property is destroyed or violated to facilitate the illegal crossing of the border. For example, it would be a crime in the future if a border guard dog was injured by illegal border crossings, a border surveillance camera or a border building was broken. Illegal border crossings will continue to be criminally punishable even if the aim is to commit other crimes against the state in Estonia. Illegal border crossings are aggravating circumstances, for example when a cross-border player is carrying a weapon or someone's life is in danger. In the future, it will be possible to punish a person with imprisonment of up to 10 years if there are aggravating circumstances. As I mentioned, in order to prevent trafficking in human beings, provisions have been added to the draft, which criminalise the subsequent acquisition of a falsified document and the detention of another person's personal document, as well as provisions providing for responsibility for the destruction, violation, theft and concealment of an important personal document, and for the use and use of a falsified important personal document. In addition, the Code of Criminal Procedure will be supplemented by allowing evidence of illegal crossing of the state border and temporary control line of the Republic of Estonia to be collected using surveillance procedures when committed by a group. In order to ensure border security, it is necessary for the operators to be able to act in an operational manner and, where necessary, to use discreet surveillance tools. The parts of the draft law relating to illegal border crossing and surveillance activities in this respect are intended to enter into force on 2 January 2015 as from the date of entry into force of the so-called Penal Code Revision. The provisions on counterfeiting and retention of documents are intended to enter into force in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U125	Thank you. There are no questions. The Commission's rapporteur is Kalle Jents. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U126	Good morning, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was discussed by the Committee on Legal Affairs on 3 November. The minister gave an overview as comprehensive as today in the large hall of the Riigikogu and the members of the committee had no doubts about supporting this draft. The following decisions were taken: to put the draft on the plenary agenda on 12 November, which has now become 13 November (this was a consensual decision), to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments be set at 16 a.m. on 26 November. It was decided to appoint Mr Kalle Jents as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U127	There are no questions. The first reading of Bill 751 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 16 a.m. on 26 November.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U128	And we have reached the first reading of the draft law amending the law on law enforcement, which is the most appealing to our minds and minds. The draft has been initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please, on behalf of the initiators, Minister of Justice Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U129	Dear Riigikogu! Head of the Riigikogu! The last draft law I will present today is the draft law amending the law on law enforcement. The purpose of this draft is to bring the point of law enforcement law on alcohol consumption in public places into line with society's expectations and people's normal behaviour. A study carried out by the Institute for Health Development, which took place after 1 July, showed that 82% of the population did not support alcohol consumption in public places. Already in early autumn, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Justice launched a public debate. There was also a round table on the Law Enforcement Act, before which we called for proposals on the disputed provisions of the Law Enforcement Act. More than 50 proposals were made by organisations and individuals, most of whom considered that alcohol consumption in public should still be limited. That is how we decided to do it in the government and send you a bill to restore the regulation in force before July, i.e. a general ban on drinking alcohol in public places. It retains a part of the regulation that prohibits the use of alcoholic beverages or allows local authorities to consume alcoholic beverages in places related to children and to the promotion of health. In drawing up the draft, it has been taken into account that, under current law, local authorities have a wide range of possibilities to regulate the sales and consumption of alcoholic beverages, such as the right to restrict the sale of alcoholic beverages, to impose requirements for the organisation and maintenance of public events. The draft also extends the competence of the local government by being empowered by a general arrangement to determine the public places where alcohol consumption is permitted, and these places must then be marked accordingly. Amendments to the Law on Law Enforcement and not to the Law on Alcohol have been introduced in connection with the restriction of alcohol consumption, since the adoption of the Law on Law Enforcement has been decided years ago that alcohol consumption in public places is a matter of law enforcement rather than a matter of national alcohol policy. This bill is based on the same understanding. The municipality will be given the opportunity to specify the places and events where alcohol consumption is permitted. And as I mentioned, the general ban will still remain in force, and alcohol consumption cannot be allowed by the local authorities in those places relating to children, such as the proximity of playgrounds, health care establishments, public transport and related matters. Alcoholic beverages may be consumed in the future where the local authority has authorised the retail sale of the alcoholic beverage for consumption on the spot and at public events, subject to such authorisation. It is very important to note that these authorisations remain subject to the general requirement laid down in the Law Enforcement Act that where alcohol consumption is permitted, it should not disturb others. In addition to alcohol, the use of a non-food drink-producing substance in a public place shall be prohibited. Examples of such substances are, as we know, various liquids used in industry or manufacturing. The proposed amendment to the draft law is intended to enter into force in general terms. The sooner Parliament deals with the draft, the sooner alcohol consumption can be restricted in public. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U130	As there are no questions for the Minister, I would like to ask the rapporteur for the committee, Neeme Suur.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U131	Mr. Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs dealt with the draft 752 on Monday, 3 November. Andres Anvelt, Minister of Justice, and Sander Põllumäe, Adviser to the Public Law Service of the Ministry of Justice, introduced the draft and described the objectives and regulatory objects of the Act. We also had a debate on this issue, in particular on issues concerning the competence of local governments. First of all, the question was whether the local authority could or should have the right to make any distinctions with regard to this restriction. The granting of the right to make distinctions was considered to be appropriate. A discussion also arose on the third point of the draft, which concerns the repeal of legislation given by the municipality. The question was whether this point was necessary and what self-determination rights stemming from the autonomy of the local authority would be. In response, it was found that such a declaration of invalidity was not a first time and was necessary for reasons of legal clarity. At the end of the discussion, procedural decisions were taken: it was proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 12 November and that the first reading be closed and, if the first reading is closed, that the deadline for amendments be set at 16 a.m. on 26 November 2014. Neeme the Great was appointed rapporteur. All procedural decisions were taken in a consensual manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U132	It seems to me that the members of the Riigikogu have no questions for the rapporteur. Nevertheless, I am opening negotiations. There are no participants. First reading of Bill 752 has been completed and I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 16 a.m. on 26 November. The sitting is adjourned. At this point, let me quote from Ülo Nug. His historical statement was this: 'If you think the chairman of the meeting is here alone, you are wrong. There's always a waitress here. ' Closure of the sitting at 2.57 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U133	Honourable Riigikogu! Let's start the briefing. Please, let's do the presence check! The Question Hour was registered by 33 members of the Riigikogu, with 68 missing. The members of the government at Question Time are Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Urve Palo and Minister for the Interior Hanno Pevkur. Five members of the Riigikogu registered as a questioner last day. It is therefore reasonable to provide for two further on-the-spot ad hoc questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U134	The first questioner is Kadri Simson and the question is for Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U135	Thank you. Dear Taavi in the garment! We have a demonstration of people with disabilities in front of the House of Riigikogu right now, because today, in the later part of the day, the draft laws on labour capacity reform come to second reading. At the same time, disabled people have not received answers from ministers in the field to a number of very simple questions. That is why I am asking you these questions. After all, you have left the labour force reform to Helmen Hunter and Urmas Kruus as an inheritance. On top of that, the question to which no clear answer has been given so far. When it comes to the reform of the capacity for work, it is often frightening to say that the reform must now be done and cannot be postponed, otherwise we will lose the money of the European Union. What specific European Union legislation or contract provision gives reason to argue that if a country takes a reasonable additional time to ensure better preparation and more efficient functioning of the draft legislation on the reform of working capacity, this will inevitably lead to a reduction or even loss of European Union funding?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U136	Thank you, Honourable Asker. I just arrived in this house, and I have to admit, I didn't see anyone picketing in front of the house, but maybe I just didn't notice it. However, I have met and discussed these issues on several occasions, both as Minister of Social Affairs in my previous post and now as Prime Minister, with representatives of people with disabilities. Also, the last time people with disabilities handed over their petitions and proposals to Parliament and the government, I invited them into the room and we talked about these issues for more than half an hour. No one from the representatives of the organisations of the disabled or from the representatives of its appeal wanted the current system to continue. I asked several times whether they wanted this situation to continue and whether we would postpone the reform for a few years. They made it very clear that no, they don't want that. They want to be agreed on the details. They had quite a few ideas about how the reform could be technically implemented after the draft had been adopted. Then, of course, technical preparation begins both at the unemployment fund and at the authorities at large. I therefore believe that we have reason to focus, for a change, not on slogans, such as politicians who oppose the reform of working capacity, but on specific details. Let us think about how, once the legislative preconditions have been created, we can technically implement the reform as well as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U137	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U138	Prime Minister! You didn't answer my question. And I am very sorry that you did not notice people with disabilities before the Riigikogu. They wanted a place for demonstration right at the door of the Riigikogu, but for some reason I could not understand, they were moved to the edge of the parking lot. Maybe you'll stay with them when you leave the house. But my first question, which I expected your answer to, was that which European Union act will leave us with no money. I have another question. Do you think that the employment capacity reform will meet the target set in the Europe 2020 strategy that 75% of the population aged 20 to 64 will have to work? If this has not been assessed, do you consider it necessary to carry out an analysis or debate on this matter before the work capacity reform is carried out as a major experiment?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U139	Thank you. As far as the sighting of people with disabilities is concerned, this is actually a much wider and more serious issue. I think that we all have reason to notice not only people with disabilities but also people with reduced working capacity, whose ability to work has been reduced due to health problems. We need to think about how we can help them to be among us here in the Riigikogu, in the government and in the ministries, but also in private companies to work and be active in society. I was very upset that the public was surprised when, as Prime Minister, I invited people with disabilities into Stenbock's house. We have to open the doors for them. Not only to Stenbock's house, but to all the jobs. There's nothing to be surprised about. I'm not seeing anyone in the rain. Of course, I'm inviting people inside, including people with disabilities. To specific issues. Firstly, the issue of losing money has arisen because there are many areas in Estonia that want money from European Union funds. The decision that nearly 200 million will go directly to the costs of the work capacity reform was not too easy either. This money is actually very much needed for these people, especially for services. There are also services that are not directly linked to the reform of working capacity, but which concern, for example, the social performance of carers and people with disabilities. These amounts amount to around EUR 300 million. Believe me, there is a very serious competition between sectors because of this money. The second question concerned the objectives of the European Union. The aim of Estonia and the whole of the European Union is to have fewer people excluded from the labour market. Anyone who wants to work should have this opportunity, including those with disabilities.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U140	Kadri Simson, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U141	My next question concerns the very specific concerns of people with disabilities, namely aids. Under European Union law, a State may not restrict a citizen's right to purchase goods from another Member State. People with disabilities have expressed their concern that they do not know whether, after the reform, they will remain able to buy an equivalent tool from Sweden, Finland or elsewhere in the European Union instead of a seller from Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U142	Aids are a very serious issue. Before I became Minister of Social Affairs, Hanno Pevkur was in this position, but for many years previous ministers had faced the same problem. At the end of each year, there were queues and there was no more money available for aids. I myself and all the ministers before me have tried to mitigate this in any way by redeploying the budget at the end of the year. It is our wish that the reform of working capacity will significantly increase the budget for the acquisition of tools for people of working age. We have now calculated that this money will multiply. The greater amount certainly provides the opportunity not to buy the cheapest solution in haste, but to really get that prosthetic, wheelchair, or hearing aid that will actually help him. From now on, people will no longer have to wait long for helping them to be active in working life because of queues. So in answer to your question, I am absolutely convinced that fear is in vain. In reality, we can allocate several times more money to the acquisition of tools for people of working age. If there is more money, you can think more about what specific tool someone needs. We can approach more personally, and I'm absolutely sure people should like it. I don't think anyone likes having some people waiting in line at the end of every year. We would like to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U143	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U144	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! It is quite a sign, of course, that you did not notice people with disabilities in front of the Riigikogu building when you came to this house today. By the time you got here, there were a lot of them already. That is their concern, after all, that the government or the Prime Minister does not notice them and does not take their proposals into account. According to § 28 of the Constitution, persons with disabilities are under the special care of the state. This means that, when changes are made in this area, this target group and their representatives should be specifically involved. In this morning's "Hellovision" news article, a representative of the disabled said that the government was going over their proposals on a road roll. So far, this is the way the government has dealt with the opposition. It was quite painful to hear a representative of the disability organisation say that ministers and the government were crossing them on a roller coaster. On the contrary, you claim that all agreements have been reached, everyone agrees. I ask whether people with disabilities and their organisations are deceitful, malicious or stupid. Or do you just understand these things differently?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U145	Thank you. You give me, as well as the representatives of the disabled, a great deal of arguments and views that none of us have said. Let it be on your conscience. If we look at the process of preparing the work capacity reform, which has been going on for many years, there has been very close cooperation with representative organisations for people with disabilities during this period. These two drafts, which have now reached the final stage of the Riigikogu procedure, have become this way precisely because of the involvement of people with disabilities. Both during the planning of the main ideas of the reform and during the drafting of the drafts in the government and during the parliamentary procedure, meetings were actually held throughout the summer, with the active participation of the people of the Social Affairs Committee and a number of other Members of Parliament. Work was being done to make these drafts even better. I have several pages of text ahead of me and it is clear that these drafts have been corrected on the basis of the proposals of the disabled. Since time is limited, I can't tell you everything. However, I will give an example of how to guarantee people's incomes. Despite the fact that, in some theoretical cases, the disability allowance could be lower than the old disability pension, we, in cooperation with representatives of the disabled, reached a plan according to which no one's income would decrease. If the person's current disability pension under the current system is higher than the disability allowance under the new system, the difference is compensated so that he still receives a higher amount. There are, of course, still those proposals that we have taken into account. As a result, the reform has become much better.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U146	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U147	Thank you. Prime Minister! For some time, your answers are not convincing in front of the Riigikogu Hall. You didn't notice the people who were out in front of the house right now, but I brought that letter from them that I'm holding in my hand right now. This letter is from them and I am asked to ask you how long this general discussion will last. The question is whether the government intends to commission a scientific study on the impact of this law before it is adopted. In this letter, there is interest in this law being proportionate and helping people with disabilities. They are not convinced of that. Saar Poll's study also condemned this bill in its original form, and it said that it did not meet its stated goals, but increased poverty in Estonia. Is there any scientific research to be relied upon, or are you just talking a little mist about us all the time? Why, then, do the sickest people in our society constantly go to demonstrations? As soon as there's a hearing, they're out. They've been coming here all summer, and they've been in trouble.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U148	Question please, time's up!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U149	Thank you. As soon as I get out of this Parliament building, I'm gonna go and see if there's really anyone on the court. If so, I will certainly ask what their position is. The fact that I didn't notice may have been that there was no one to see. But let's put it aside. People need to be noticed, and not only when some of them protest. People also need to be noticed when we have 45,000 disabled people in Estonia who do not work, but they say they want to work. By the way, this figure is taken from a single scientific study conducted on the basis of a survey. Do we notice these people? Yeah, maybe a couple of people in front of this house don't like some reform clause. We have to accept that, too. But in Estonian society there are 40,000 45,000 people who say that help us to work, we want to work ourselves, we are not satisfied with the fact that we are pushed away from working life. Then I have a question for you. Are we ready to spot the 40,000 to 45,000 people who want to work? I would argue that the reform of the capacity for work provides opportunities for this. I don't expect me to be able to convince you, because convincing the Centre Party is by definition a relatively hopeless event. Of course, no major change is 100 percent flawless to every detail. There are probably also things that can be improved in cooperation with representatives of the disabled. But it would be very foolish to say that we will abandon this reform or put it on a shelf for several years because no one has been able to convince the Centre Party. I don't think that's a good enough reason.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U150	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U151	The next questioner is Peter Laurson, and the question is for Home Secretary Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U152	Thank you, Mr President. Minister of the Interior! Because of the ban on specially labelled fuel, the government promised to compensate for the differences arising from the increase in excise duty. However, it has now become apparent that the fleet of the Police and Border Guard Board has not received compensation, which is likely to result in hundreds of days of patrolling at sea. Why wasn't that compensation granted?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U153	Thank you for your question. Surely this has not yet come to light. This has been known throughout the budgetary procedure. The decision on changes to special fuel labels has also not just been born, but has been made much earlier. The Ministry of the Interior has raised it several times during the budgetary procedure, it was also discussed in the Cabinet. The truth is that we must look at the whole budget together with all the ministers and make our choices. Of course, I would be delighted if the additional burden on the Police and Border Guard Board as a result of the legislative changes to special-marked fuel could be compensated. However, the current budget plan does not provide for such compensation. On the other hand, we are pleased that the price of fuel on the world market has fallen slightly, which means that the potential deficit over the whole year will be considerably lower. But the reference in your question to the fact that there is less sense of the sea is true. Indeed, the hours of the sea are reduced. This is real life.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U154	Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U155	However, the Government of the Republic has found money to pay for the excise increase to private companies operating ferry traffic between Saaremaa and Hiiumaa. How is it that the Police and Border Guard Board, who should make sure that the same ships do not have an accident, is now difficult to get there according to this plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U156	Thank you. As I said, the budget is complete, and we brought it on the table. All ministers must agree on this budget. The decision was that I, in cooperation with the Police and Border Guard Board, must find the means and means to act under the circumstances we have. When specially labelled fuel disappears, we need to see how we can ensure maritime security in the best possible way, even in changed circumstances.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U157	Please, Peter Laurson, another supplementary question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U158	Now, let me get this straight. If, in previous years, the priority was to develop marine rescues in a way that would increase marine rescue capabilities, then next year it is expected that marine rescue capabilities could fall considerably?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U159	I wouldn't say marine rescue capabilities are falling. The truth is that the number of possible hours at sea is falling, which does not mean that there is a loss of capacity. Do not link the hours at sea and the sea rescue capabilities. These are completely different things. I would rather say that we have new positive directions in cooperation with volunteers and the Police and Border Guard Board. For example, we are planning stable funding for voluntary marine rescuers, which so far has not been available, and we are foreseeing a grant from the state budget for the umbrella organisation of the Marine and Lakes Rescue Association. There are also positive notes in this sense. But the truth is that changes in the use of specially labelled fuel mean that we have to decide how to use the police and border guard's resources. We should take away somewhere else and find extra money to buy fuel or see if and how we patrol the sea. Up to 100 days at sea out of 900 can really go down. But what will be the situation by the end of the year, when the second half of the year knows what fuel prices are and what the real situation is at sea.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U160	Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U161	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, In your previous reply, you mentioned voluntary marine rescuers, and voluntary sprayers could also be added. You said it was the first time they had received money from the state budget. However, these umbrella organisations turned to us, and certainly to the government, because this amount is small. If there are major problems, what funds should be made available to voluntary marine rescuers or marine pollution prevention agents? If there is still a shortage of fuel, what should we go to the sea or to Peipsi, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U162	Thank you. Once again, maritime surveillance, patrolling at sea and marine rescue capabilities are different things. Of course, all rescue operations will be responded not only to underwater operations but, if necessary, to aircraft, including Beamers on Peipsi. So if there is a need to react to a rescue event, it will be done in the maximum possible way. As far as day-to-day financing is concerned, for volunteer squirts, I can also say that their funding will increase by even more than 10% next year. This is complemented by support from the umbrella organisation of volunteer sprayers, which depends on the number of members of the association. The precondition for financing membership of associations is that the state has accepted these associations and must have a cooperation agreement with either the Police and Border Guard Board or the Rescue Board. These are the principles of funding the umbrella organisations. If the Riigikogu still discusses the financing of volunteers and decides to grant additional support to free-will sprayers and marine rescuers, then I will certainly not put my hand forward and support it. So once again, rescue and daily patrolling are different subjects. All rescue operations will be resolved.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U163	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U164	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! Are you not afraid that such a sudden reduction in internal security fuel could have such an effect that companies would simply simply give fuel to police, border guards or rescuers? I remember the time when the collective or Soviet directors gave gas to the local district commissioner without any money. Are we going back there? The state can no longer provide fuel to its internal security units, and then they go another way.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U165	Thank you for your question. No, I'm not. As far as the police and border guards on the mainland are concerned, they do not use special fuel anyway. We are talking about underwater boats, ships, boats, boats, but not boats, still ships that use specially marked fuel. Thus, the changes to special fuel labels concern the fleet of the Police and Border Guard Board and not the small vessels.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U166	Peter Laurson has taken advantage of his opportunities. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U167	The next questioner is Mikhail Korb. The question is the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Urve Palole. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U168	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madam Secretary! A few weeks ago, I had the opportunity to ask Mr. Prime Minister about municipal buildings in this very hall. The Prime Minister's answers were clear and unambiguous: municipal buildings do not need to be built; it is neither practical nor effective in Estonia. A few days ago, you announced, you might say, your plan titled "The State-supported Retirement Retirement Program." Having spoken to Mr. Prime Minister, I am now confused. How about that? Does the state support the rental housing programme or not? Maybe you're campaigning. Or are you serious?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U169	Thank you for your question. The Prime Minister and I are different people, and from time to time we think and see things differently. Although I believe that the Prime Minister has had neither the opportunity nor the time to get seriously into this matter, especially given the pace of his work. I haven't presented this idea either, so in that sense, I don't blame her for anything. But if we look around more widely in Western Europe, for example, in the Nordic countries, there is no country, at least I don't remember now, who does not actively contribute to housing. Publicly supported rental premises will also be built. However, we know that in Western Europe and the Nordic countries there are sometimes politicians with different world views, the order is social democrats, the order is right, the order is centered. The renewal of the housing fund and the construction of rental housing are characteristic of all world views. I do not rule this out in Estonia either. I think that, since the Estonian state has not dealt with this before, this is a new issue for us that wants more clarification and more understanding. But if you ask what happens next, I will say that we are currently developing an energy economic development plan in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, in which housing is one important point. A lot of preliminary work has been done by the Development Fund with scientists. They have proposed three housing scenarios: intervening, non-interventional and low-intervention. In the intervening scenario, which sees the greatest benefit to the Estonian state, economy and people, it is recommended, among other things, to build publicly supported rental housing. I hope we can continue this discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U170	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U171	I'd love to keep asking, but first a little comment. Indeed, the government has never dealt with this issue before. There is a party in the political landscape, namely the Centre Party, which has been talking for years about the need for municipal buildings. Tallinn has already built quite a few of them. But also from your program. As I read on the Ministry's website, it's been dealt with for six months. Although the things you've come up with are relatively slogans. You have probably also carried out a study on this subject, so you will be able to assess more specifically. How many people now need a service like municipal housing?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U172	This in-depth analysis, which was carried out by the Development Fund, can certainly be seen. It's not a ministry job, it's an outside job, and it's been dealt with longer than I've been in office. And, as I said, they offer three options: interfering, non-interventional and non-interventional. It is difficult, of course, to say in sum how many people. But you can look at the results of a survey among young people, for example. I have also participated in a round table where representatives of municipalities were represented, including the Cities Association, the Association of Municipalities and entrepreneurs. It also expressed the wish that the state would contribute to the construction of publicly supported rentals. It's a very big wish. I would stress that it is not such a programme that the state comes into the territory of the municipality and starts building something. That's not gonna happen. The municipality has to want it. If it submits an application, it shall be well-considered, well-founded and supported by development plans. It must show how the rental home to be built contributes to the development of the region's competitiveness and entrepreneurship and the lives of people. It is feared that the state will come and build something that is expensive. The reality is that the state builds in cooperation with the municipality or through the municipality with the private sector and everyone contributes. The state's contribution is actually smaller. So there is no fear that the state will give 100% of the money and the municipality will think that we will try and do it. This must be a well-thought-out decision of the municipality, because it itself puts the bulk of it. Later, it is the municipality or real estate company that manages these buildings and continues to deal with them. This is not the role of the state, the country has a general view.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U173	Mikhail Korb, the second point of clarification!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U174	I can't believe what you're saying is one hundred percent different from what Mr. Prime Minister told us. I like what you're saying a lot better, I'll be honest. But I'll keep asking. There will be elections in March and I think that the implementation of this programme will depend very much on the election results of March. How important is it for you that the program be included in the coalition agreement? Can you answer, let's say, in a five-ball system, 1 doesn't matter at all and 5 is extremely important? One, two, three, four or five?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U175	More people will be involved in negotiating the coalition agreement; there will be a whole party delegation headed by the political party chairman. I don't want to speak on behalf of everyone else right now, but I'm sure it's very important to me. This is an issue which is also part of our political party's economic programme, so we will certainly discuss it at the table of coalition negotiations. That's how life works. It's unfair to say that I'm doing this for the election. For the first time, I started thinking about this two years ago when Krista Kiuru, Finnish Minister of Housing, visited Estonia. He spoke in his interview about how rental homes are built in Finland, where Estonians also live. At the time, I was wondering why we are not doing this in Estonia. And now, as Minister of Economic Affairs, I was able to start developing this programme. I would say that pre-arranged time is even good, because this is how the project can be financed quickly. Such big decisions always need the coalition's approval. The fact that elections are so close now only gives more opportunities, not the other way around.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U176	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U177	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. As my colleague Mikhail Korb finds, I think you are on the right track. I also listened to what you said this morning on "Hellovision," and I have to admit that you were very persuasive when you introduced this program. I think what you said is the right thing. But the Prime Minister of your government doesn't agree with this plan. In addition, the new Minister of Finance, Maris Lauri, has announced, rather, in his blog entry, that your plan has been relatively watered down, saying that this is not an important issue that should be addressed. In fact, there is no problem or analysis in this market, or in the rental market. If a minister says something, it can't be considered an analysis. I'm giving you an opportunity to respond to Minister Maris Lauri in two minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U178	Thank you very much. The statements made by Minister for Finance, Maris Lauri, which you have made, are strange to me, to say the least. But I'm gonna put them on the record that it takes the new minister all the time to get to know and get to know his ministry. He probably hasn't had time to get to know the rental housing program. Another complaint is that there is a high risk of corruption. In many ways, Estonia supports hundreds of millions of private and local governments each year, sharing European Union money. A similar experience exists for us and it is hard to understand why it is thought to be a particularly corrupt program. We've got the appropriate bodies working against corruption. That's not why I'm worried. The fact that there are no analyses behind it is also not true. There are very specific analyses that have been carried out in the Ministry for six months. We also had a specialist from Finland who has been working on it for decades. In addition, the work of the Development Fund, which is an input to the new energy economic development plan. What else were the charges? That you don't have to? The analysis reveals very precisely that it is necessary. In Estonia, among other things, there is a very big problem that the housing fund is ageing very quickly. We're building 2,000 new homes a year, but at the same time, 6,000, 4,000 is the difference. It's like there's demand, but people just don't have the resources to fill it. So a part of the rental housing program would also contribute to the renewal of the housing fund, not to mention that people are left with more money and can afford housing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U179	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U180	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, When talking about your publicly supported rental housing programme, where state support, i.e. taxpayer support, must also be taken into account in the rental market. More rented surfaces should reach the market. One of the problems identified by market participants is, for example, that according to current legislation and local government rules, the average apartments in new houses are too large, i.e. more smaller apartments could be allowed. Another bottleneck is the existing legislation governing rental relationships, where the rights of the lessor and the lessor are not balanced. What have you done as Minister of Economic Affairs to revive the rental market before you go after the taxpayer's wallet?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U181	Thank you very much. By the way, these are two parallel things that have to be dealt with and one doesn't rule out the other. We continue to talk about the huge need for publicly supported rentals. If there's time, I'll explain. But as far as the law is concerned, there is a need to amend the law of debt. At the moment, it's too inclined, supposedly towards the renter. The Minister of Justice is involved in this, and there is a round table, and a representative of our ministry is also present there. Our role was to initiate this task force and, as far as I know, the work is being done well there. The Minister of Justice has, in any case, promised to come up with these changes. As for the proposal that apartments should be smaller, yes, I agree with you. I think it's definitely the one thing you have to come up with when this program starts. There is one particular issue, namely that parking lots are now required for every apartment and that is what makes building one apartment expensive. How can I get a favourable price for publicly supported rental housing? I see that, first of all, houses must be very energy-saving, so later savings in housing costs can be achieved. Secondly, apartments should be small, up to two rooms, and there could be a common room for washing laundry downstairs. There is an example in other parts of the world. There should certainly not be a requirement for multiple cars to be parked for each apartment. All of this will ultimately lead to savings by which the rent could be cheaper. As I said, both need to be dealt with in parallel. The mobility of labour in Estonia is very low because there are simply no rental premises in rural areas. There are often jobs there, but it is not possible to bring people, because they have nowhere to live. Rent prices in cities are again too high for low-paid or young people. I can't talk anymore now.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U182	Thank you. All the specific questions have been asked, so I will stop dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U183	The next question is for Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas and the questioner is Helir-Valdor Seeder. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U184	Thank you. Prime Minister! On Monday, in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, we learned that the European Commission estimates that Estonia's 2015 budget deficit is 0.7% of gross domestic product. The government has so far confirmed the opposite that the budget is in surplus at 0.8%. According to the European Commission, there are almost 300 million uncovered expenditures in the Estonian budget. Who am I supposed to believe? Please do not answer that I have completely misunderstood the matter and that several methods are used and there are other expert opinions. For me, the opinion of the European Commission is more authoritative in this case. Does the government coalition have any plans to balance the proposed budget, or do you leave it to the work of the next government?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U185	Thank you. You set boundaries for me and you told me what I can say about you and what I can't. I'll try to answer as accurately as possible within the limits given to you. The Ministry of Finance makes all forecasts independently of policy. As a long enough member of the government, I think you know that too. There is no policy in this regard as the Ministry of Finance assesses Estonia's fiscal position and economic forecast. I am encouraged to know that Eesti Pank has made a very similar forecast to the Ministry of Finance, who no one will ever suspect of being biased. For example, the IMF and the OECD, for example, are even more positive in their forecasts, let us say, looking at the budget. So ex evaluations are of all kinds, and there are different economic forecasts. But as always, afterwards you will know the final truth. We have had this practice, not only during our government, but for a very long time, that the budget is drawn up on the basis of a formal, policy-independent forecast by the Ministry of Finance. Since I have a few more seconds, I will settle my debt to answer my previous question. In the meantime, I was able to see from the news that indeed, a group of people have gathered before the Riigikogu. I'm sorry I missed them! Probably because they were not right in front of the house, but side by side by the Governor's Garden. But they were the same people, at least in part, who I met recently. So I know very well that they do not really want to cancel or postpone the reform, but that putting the reform on the shelf for several years would maintain the current system and it is not acceptable to them.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U186	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U187	Thank you. Prime Minister! According to § 16 (4) of the State Budget Act, the financial forecast is compared with the most up-to-date forecasts of the European Commission and other independent institutions and the explanatory memorandum provides an overview of the differences. As such, the European Commission's opinion has not been dealt with in the explanatory memorandum. Why? We are talking about 300 million euros, not pocket money. Providing half-truths and only appropriate opinions does not create trust in the budget. Conservative fiscal policies also require a conservative forecast. The temptation to live beyond force in the year of election of the Riigikogu can lead to long-term negative consequences. Would it still be more appropriate to take into account the opinion of the European Commission and to avoid living too much next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U188	Thank you. We certainly intend to avoid living too much in the next year and in the future. Your specific why-issue is a very specific answer. The government handed the budget over to the Riigikogu at the end of September. The Commission's forecast referred to by you, however, which is, I would stress, one of the several items was made public on 4 November, i.e. after the government transferred the budget, together with an explanatory memorandum, to Parliament. In retrospect, it is quite logical that future events cannot be recorded in this document. I am very pleased in itself that you consider the balance of the budget to be an important issue and draw attention to it. This is a very correct starting point. The state's finances must be in order. We must, of course, look at secondary assessments, which, as has been said, are often contradictory, apart from Estonia's own forecasts. We must also be able to see behind the figures. We need to be able to see the differences in methodology, and this, too, actually has substance. We see that the OECD forecast differs from ours in the same way and the European Commission's assessment in the opposite direction. But we need to be able to get the point together. I very much hope that you will also help to bring more concern about the budgetary balance into your party's proposals. When we talk about the ideas that have been put forward in the elections, some of your party's proposals are relatively costly and still have no sources of cover. Personally, I believe that if you also share this concern with your party partners and find sources of cover for your proposals, there is a much greater likelihood that they can be implemented in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U189	Helir-Valdor Seeder, second point for clarification!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U190	Thank you. Of course, the opinion of the European Commission was not completely unexpected on 4 November either to the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Estonia or to the government. It was based on previous discussions and consultations so that it could certainly have been dealt with in depth in the course of the state budget procedure. But that's it. The election campaign always brings with it a lot of unprotected promises. I read your article today about the commitment of half a billion euros, but I did not read the cover. However, I ask whether you still stand firm in your view that, on the basis of the European Commission's proposal and opinion, there is no need to change the budget. If you are so convinced that you are right, what should be done to increase the European Commission's capacity, even to the level of the Estonian Ministry of Finance? Have you planned any training or courses for the Commission's experts and Commissioners so that in the future the forecasts would coincide more? What could be the solutions?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U191	Thank you. Unlike you, I'm not so sure that from a distance everything seems more accurate than our own experts. The Ministry of Finance and Eesti Pank agree on the balance of our budget. In the light of experience so far, their estimates have often been more accurate than those from a distance from the European Commission or other international organisations. However, it is an unwritten rule that politicians do not intervene in making forecasts. I think there is no reason for us to judge either the Ministry of Finance or the officials of Eesti Pank or to say that they have somehow misjudged their forecasts. It is up to us politicians to take note of the forecast and draw up a budget based on it that meets the desired objectives. My government has set itself the objective of a structural surplus of 0.8% of GDP. The impartial fiscal board set up as a new institution has also requested precisely this. So the budget balance is in good shape. And for now, the budget is in your hands, and I, as Prime Minister, will no longer be able to intervene. If you have proposals on how to improve the budgetary position, they are always welcome. If your proposals are good, it is probably possible to support them. However, as regards my article today, I can assure you that there are sources of cover for the plan to reduce labour taxes that it contains. We will announce our plan, according to current knowledge, at the end of this week, probably on Saturday, and then we will also discuss the sources of coverage in more detail. Believe me, we will do differently this time than any other party with its proposals. We've got solid sources of cover.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U192	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U193	Good manager! Good Prime Minister! Today it has been said that, according to the European Commission, we are in a structural deficit of EUR 300 million. However, you have said in your answers that some estimates suggest that the view of the coming year will be much more positive. You mentioned that the budget is now in the Riigikogu and you can no longer intervene. But I'll make you a suggestion, maybe you'll give us a few good suggestions. What savings should be made if the budget is in deficit? Or if there really seems to be a positive view, what could be added to the budget in order to boost the Estonian economy?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U194	Thank you. As has been said, the state budget for next year is now already in the Riigikogu and it is likely that MEPs themselves will have proposals. The members of the government have entered their proposals into the budget. I think that this is a very good budget, which sets out the priorities for all members of the government and for all sectors. It is, of course, possible for Parliament to have a say. I'm not the one who has to write you the words. If you ask me what I believe will boost the economy, then I suggest you read as your colleague, Helir-Valdor Seeder, has already mentioned my article in Postimees today. There I describe the things that give the Estonian economy a new boost. These will certainly include a reduction in labour taxes. Helir-Valdor Seeder is right, it costs almost EUR 500 million and we intend to cover about a third of this faster increase in tobacco and alcohol excise duties. It is possible to increase budget expenditure less by a third. Probably even more, but conservatively, one third of the budget revenue comes from the fact that the economy grows faster with lower taxes on labour. I believe that the tax burden should be reduced by lowering labour taxes. Estonia is among the eight Europeans in terms of the tax burden, i.e. it is not in a very bad position. But we have a little higher taxes on labour than we could have. Therefore, I sincerely believe that it is possible to give new impetus to the Estonian economy by lowering them.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U195	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U196	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! I'm asking about hidden taxation. As we know, we all receive monthly electricity bills, a very large proportion of which are network charges. With this huge network fee, Elering has made quite a profit. However, it has now become apparent that instead of fixing the electricity grids, Elering has started buying gas routes for electricity grid charges. How do the two come together? Is it planned that in the future, Elering will start acquiring something else for the state, perhaps buses and trams or something else? How is such a thing possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U197	Thank you. As an electricity consumer, you and I have no reason to worry about buying gas routes at the expense of electricity. The gas routes are such that their cost is, and will continue to be, included in the gas tariff for years to come. This represents a relatively small part of the gas tariff, as the total cost of the gas network is unknown. The fact that Elering acquires majority ownership of Eesti Gaas's core network does not in itself increase the gas tariff in any way. Elering receives money in consumer payments. If, until now, payments have been received by the companies from which Elering buys its stake, then further payments will be received by Elering, who will receive the money back from it. We have reached the point that the gas core network, like the electricity core network, will soon become part of the strategic infrastructure of the Estonian state, which is under the control of the Estonian state. I really think it's a big deal. I thank Elering and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications for their very good work. Within seven months, it was possible to reach the actual transaction and make a decision, which will undoubtedly increase the confidence of Estonian gas consumers. We know very well that gas has also been used as a political weapon. The fact that the gas core network is under the control of the Estonian state gives confidence to gas consumers and is therefore a very important step, not only in gas policy, but also in security policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U198	Less than five minutes to the end of Question Time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U199	The next questioner is Aivar Chef. The question is for Urve Palo.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U200	Good manager! Minister! I would first like to thank the President and the entire parliamentary team for finally having a blue black and white flag in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, not just on the table. I hope not only today, but it will remain so. But now to the question. As we know, fuel oil excise will rise from May next year, and thousands of people in Estonia will be concerned about this. How can we solve this problem? Not everyone can heat a fireplace with trees. Some pensioners have already switched to a fuel oil boiler because it works automatically and only needs to buy liquid fuel once a year. What solutions do you see, and how should the people who are currently using fuel oil continue to act?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U201	Thank you for your question. Fuel oil is now known to be one of the most expensive fuel types for domestic heating and hot water, if not the most expensive. Its price is more or less the same as electricity. Indeed, the state wants to help people to gradually switch to cheaper heating methods, which are ultimately much more favourable to their wallets. Generally, these renewable fuels, such as pellets, air heat pumps, are also very comfortable for the elderly, do not have to go anywhere to put more wood, or ground heating, etc. That is why it has been developed in a good sense as a whip-prawn method. The country will cease to differentiate between imported fuel and oil, namely special labelling, which is currently making the price more favourable. It will disappear from May 1, next year. As the heating period begins in the autumn, people will feel the impact of this change more in the autumn of next year. We have already developed a measure to support families. In this way, they can prepare to replace their existing oil boilers with more up - to - date and ultimately more wallet - friendly ones. From the beginning of the new year, you can apply for a grant to replace your oil boiler through KredEx. The maximum amount of the application is EUR 4000 per applicant and up to 40% of the total cost of the project, which is a pretty large grant. A similar service is provided by KIK, which provides up to 50% support to housing associations so that they can also exchange their oil boilers for more energy-efficient and cheaper ones.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U202	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U203	Thank you for your answer. When we talk about alternative heating, land heating costs a minimum of 10000 euros, air heating is insane when it is less than 15 degrees cold, and heating with a pellet is not fully automatic and is not cheaper. If, according to the current plan, every family can get EUR 4,000, I do not see in the state budget the amount that all households currently using oil heating can switch to alternative heating during the summer of next year. Where does our faith come from that there will be no price increase next year? The Prime Minister said that somewhere, I don't know where Elering got the money, the gas line was bought, and that's not the cost. But maybe next year there'll be some gas or electricity consumption.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U204	Thank you. The money's all there is. KredEx has EUR 5 million to support private owners. It is estimated that if all oil boilers in the hands of private owners in Estonia are replaced with this support, it would take 7 million. But never all apply for support, so it doesn't make sense to put 100%. At the moment, it is not foreseen that we will not be able to cover possible applications and the money will be missing. Of course, a person must invest himself. It may be a problem at first, but in the long run, it pays off. It has been calculated that if there were no public support, the replacement of the heating system and the switch to renewable heating would be worth five years. Now that 40% of state support comes, it is much faster. That's what these calculations are.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U205	We thank the Prime Minister, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure and the Minister for the Interior. Question Time's over.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U206	We will begin the session of the eighth working week of the VIIIth plenary session on Wednesday. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U207	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, I hand over the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the location of the Rail Baltic route. The draft decision of the Riigikogu, which we are submitting to the proceedings today, provides that the Government of the Republic is to submit a proposal for the location of the Rail Baltic railway corridor before it is finally confirmed to the Riigikogu to shape its position. It is quite understandable that the issue of the Rail Baltic route has found a very broad voice in our society. This is also very understandable because Estonia has never built or designed such a large infrastructure object in the history of an independent state. I would remind you that in June this year the Management Board of the Estonian Academy of Sciences addressed the Riigikogu and the Government of the Republic with a recommendation that the Government of the Republic seriously and not too hastyly consider the creation of Nabala's nature reserve within the limits originally requested, which would also exclude one of the most suitable variants of the Rail Baltic route. Several local authorities, councils and civil society associations of Harju and Raplamaa have also expressed their views on the route corridors discussed by the Government of the Republic. Therefore, the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union considers that it is entirely appropriate that such a subject of great public interest be discussed in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U208	No more wishes. The draft will be processed, but only if it complies with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. And now, please, let's do the presence check! 77 Members of the Riigikogu registered to be present and 24 are elsewhere. As far as detailing the agenda is concerned, item No 18, this is draft 737, which is a rapporteur by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr Indrek Saar, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U209	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of the Act amending the Act on the Performance Institution and the Law on the National Opera initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. The commission has proposed a final vote on draft 709. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the act of the act of a performing institution initiated by the Government of the Republic and the law of the national opera 709. Please take a stand and vote. There were 78 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft 709, no one opposed, no abstentions. The Act amending the Law on the Performance Institution and the Law on the National Opera has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U210	The next item is the second reading of draft 734 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Creating the European Stability Mechanism to create a tool for the direct capitalisation of banks' presented by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur of the Monetary Commission is Aivar Sõerd. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U211	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Riigikogu Committee on Finance...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U212	Wait a minute, I'm sorry! [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Thank you, ambassadors! Please, Aivar!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U213	The Committee on Finance discussed this draft decision at its meeting on 4 November. It should be recalled here that the European Stability Mechanism, the ESM, was set up to guarantee the stability of the euro area and started work already in October 2012. The content of this draft is the approval by the Riigikogu of the creation of an additional support tool within the ESM, which is the direct recapitalisation of banks. Through the European Stability Mechanism, the Bank's direct recapitalisation instrument will allow direct investment in the share capital of financial institutions in difficulty, together with the Member State concerned and under specific conditions. This will reduce the link between public debt and bank risk, which has had a negative impact on the economies of the euro area. The instrument also provides an additional opportunity to cover the capital shortfalls identified during the assessment of the banks prior to the transition to a single banking supervision. A ceiling of EUR 60 billion has been set for this instrument. The measure would itself apply to the exhaustion of other remedies in a crisis situation where private capital, i.e. the conversion of liabilities and claims rights and the resolution tools collected from banks' payments, are not sufficient to restore a specific public authority and where the high indebtedness of the country in which the problem bank is located does not allow ESM to intervene in the normal manner. No proposal for amendments to this draft decision was received by the deadline. As has been said, this draft was dealt with by the Commission at its meeting on 4 November and did not change the draft. Nor was there a substantive debate in the Commission, and the Commission decided by consensus to propose a final vote on the draft. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U214	Questions for the waitress. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U215	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! I'm asking you to complete my knowledge. How much has the Estonian state contributed to EFSF and ESM? How much is this sum, and how's our money doing out there? Does it make dividends, or does it show signs of shrinking?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U216	The ESM has been operating for some time. The latest annual report is available to all, and it also sets out the exact size of the holdings of the euro area Member States. You can look there. The first years of operation have been successful in the sense that it is already possible to show concrete results thanks to the Fund. With the help of the Fund, the Irish programme has been funded and Ireland has already been freed from the status of programme country, as well as Portugal. A specific direct recapitalisation measure has taken place in Spain, where the first repayments are already received. The fund has been on the positive side, it earns both formalisation fees and interest on loans issued. The loan will be repaid, and will be recovered with interest.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U217	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U218	Thank you. Continuing question: would you remind the members of the Riigikogu of the mechanism of how the amounts of interest earned will be repaid? It was a political decision that if the central banks were to earn interest there, this profit would not be left to the assisting countries, but would be returned. How does this mechanism work?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U219	Thank you for your question. You're messing things up right now. There's no return of interest that you mean for the ESM. You are thinking of a different programme, which will be implemented by the European Central Bank. This is a measure by the European Central Bank and involves intervention in the bond market. Within the framework of the central bank's activities, there has been an agreement to return interest, and you probably mean it. There has really been an agreement there, as I understand it, at the level of the Council of Finance Ministers, that Greece will be refunded the income earned by the central bank from intervention in the bond market. After all, it was possible for the central bank to buy Greek bonds under nominal value and make such a, say, not very fair, high profit, and this profit was decided to be returned to Greece. But it's a whole other program that doesn't concern the ESM.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U220	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U221	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! The second question came from the first answer. If this money contributed to the funds by Estonia comes back with interest, will the Estonian state receive the interest or will it not?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U222	I repeat that Estonia's share of capital is 1.3 billion euros and 148 million euros is a direct contribution. As regards the interest earned by the ESM on these programmes and loans granted, it has been agreed that this money will remain in order to strengthen the fund's capital. These amounts shall not be distributed to the Member States.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U223	No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish to negotiate. The Committee on Finance has proposed a final vote on the draft 734. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the Riigikogu's decision 'Contribution of the European Stability Mechanism to create a tool for the direct recapitalisation of banks', submitted by the Government of the Republic, draft 734. Please take a stand and vote. There were 45 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft 734, 13 against and no abstentions. The decision of the Riigikogu to "Credit the European Stability Mechanism to create a tool for the direct recapitalisation of banks' has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U224	The next item is the second reading of draft law 728 amending the Law on study grants and student loans initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. The rapporteur for the Committee on Culture is Mart Meri. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U225	Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Study Allowances and Student Loan Act 728 was indeed initiated by the Government of the Republic in September of this year. As a reminder, the draft aims to introduce a new type of education allowance, a specific grant based on the need, and, secondly, to lower the requirement to meet the study volume from 100% to 75%, which is a minimum requirement for full-time learning. The first reading of the bill took place here on 15 October. No proposals were received from the members of the Riigikogu and the groups of delegates by the deadline for submitting amendments by 29 October. However, three proposals were submitted by the Ministry of Education and Research and the Committee on Culture formulated two proposals. All five amendments were unanimously approved by the Commission in the discussions held on 3 and 5 November. The explanatory memorandum to the second reading of the bill is quite comprehensive. I will not introduce the amendments in detail; I will briefly mention them. The first proposal clarifies the list of conditions for applying for the specific support. The second amendment clarifies the period during which the special allowance was granted. The third amendment is an implementing provision which obliges educational institutions to introduce a special scheme by 1 February 2015 at the latest. The fourth amendment would introduce that the allowances paid from the Special Support Fund set up by the institution are not included in the definition of family incomes for the purpose of determining the payment of income support. This is an important point. Amendment 5 is purely technical. On 3 October, the Committee on Culture decided to submit a draft for the second reading of 728 on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 12 November and to propose that the second reading be terminated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U226	Questions for the waitress. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U227	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Would you please remind me what amount is foreseen in the budget for next year to cover this grant? And what is the calculated number of students who have the chance to get it? Based on what figure was this amount calculated?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U228	The calculation of the specific needs-based support shall be conditional. The exact number is not known, the needs-based specific support volumes are derived from available information. It is true that the number of students who have been deprived of normal needs-based support is now known for the reason that the incomes of the family or of the student itself had changed drastically in the last few months. The normal needs-based support shall take into account the incomes of the previous year. I can get these approximate estimates out of the explanatory memorandum right now. Thus, for the spring semester of 2015, about 330 grants have been paid, they are likely to be increased during the autumn semester, by which time about 500 grants worth EUR 135 per month will be taken into account. Such calculations are based on available information.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U229	No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Liisa-Ly Pakosta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U230	Ladies and gentlemen, I will speak for one reason only in the case of second reading. In social media, which students and other young people use a lot, this bill has also been discussed very nicely, but there are two misconceptions, and I will use this arena to correct them. Firstly, it is not quite right to say that this is a perfectly unfair draft or some other groundbreaking changes. It's not like that. The need-based study grants introduced to the Riigikogu by the Isamaa and Res Publica Union and the Reform Party coalition were really a systemic change. This draft improves some of the shortcomings of the original draft. However, I would remind you that even when we discussed this for the first time in this Chamber, we all agreed that since this is the first need-based system in the history of the Republic of Estonia, it needs to be further developed later. These changes to this draft concern, as the previous speaker said, a different procedure for calculating social benefits. A reduction in the required volume of study to 75% has also been included in the draft, which universities could still do themselves, and mostly in practice. So there are changes. These changes are in a positive direction, but they are not a new system or a groundbreaking draft. Universities have also paid special grants so far. These specific grants were already in place before the need-based learning grants. What is positive about this bill is that it separates the special allowances paid from the income that is written in the calculation of income support, i.e. it allows a young person to obtain both, if necessary, which is absolutely fair and correct. I also underline that this system has not yet been completed so that the Riigikogu can be fully satisfied with it. This was also acknowledged by the Committee on Culture at its meetings. The same simple example that if an adult student has a parent who has paid him a living but has lived away from his family, his income is now included in the student's income, although the same parent no longer naturally has to pay the student a living and mostly does not. Another example that went through the debate is the question of siblings, a situation where there is a family rich in children and where adult siblings earn income. In Estonian society in general, it is not the custom that siblings necessarily maintain each other together. I recommend that everyone vote in favour of this draft at third reading, but I strongly recommend that the Riigikogu proceed with the development of this system and finally find sufficient flexible solutions to help young people with educational interests. Once again, as a reminder, according to the 'Eurostudent IV' survey, the most employed students in Estonia are children of both rich and poor families. If we can help the children of poorer families more flexibly, all proposals from students themselves and from various institutions will, of course, continue to be welcome. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U231	There are no further requests to speak. I'm closing the negotiations. We need to revise the list of amendments. All five amendments have been tabled by the Committee on Culture and have been fully taken into account. The first, second, third, fourth and fifth amendments. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading of draft 728. The second reading of Bill 728 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U232	The next item is the second reading of the draft Act amending the Social Tax Act and the Health Insurance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur for the Committee on Culture is Tiina Lokk-Tramberg. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U233	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Social Tax Act and the Health Insurance Act was discussed by the Committee on Culture at its meeting on 3 November. Since no substantive amendments were submitted after the first reading, the Committee on Culture decided to send the draft for the second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 12 November and to propose that the second reading be terminated.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U234	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. No amendments to the draft were tabled. Second reading of the bill is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U235	Our next item is the second reading of the draft law amending the State Death Allowance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The Social Affairs Committee waitress is Etti Kagarov. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U236	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the Act amending the State Death Allowance Act, initiated on 24 September this year, 726 was completed on 15 October. The deadline for submitting amendments was set at 5.15 p.m. on 29 October. The political groups, committees and members of the Riigikogu did not propose amendments to the draft. The Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft law amending the National Death Allowance Act before sending it to second reading at its meeting on 4 November. The Commission decided by consensus to send a draft of 726 to second reading by 12 November and to propose that the second reading be terminated. The Commission has also taken a decision to refer the draft to a third reading by 19 November when the second reading is closed and to put the draft to a final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U237	Questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thank you, Etti Kagarov! I'm opening negotiations. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U238	Eight minutes, just in case, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U239	Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U240	Thank you very much. Good ambassadors! I would simply like to recall that the payment of funeral allowances was waived on 18 June 2009 and that this new regime became applicable already after 12 days. No adjustment time was granted. The authorities then had the Reform Party and the IRL, the Greens supported them with their votes. The amount of the funeral allowance was EUR 191,74. The amount that was won, if you could say so at all, was EUR 3.5 million in total. That's how much coffin money was saved. Hanno Pevkur, Minister of Social Affairs at the time, quite strangely explained the reasons for giving up the grant: the government wants to increase the efficiency of using the money. He explained that restricting the number of beneficiaries of funeral grants to municipalities and municipalities that organise funerals for unfamiliar people is not a temporary solution, but is simply an opportunity to make better use of money. They didn't even put the need behind us, they said it had to be lost. Just as dental benefits and free home delivery of pensions were abolished, and so many more. I would very much like to stress one fact to you. Money for funeral allowance was found in the young Republic of Estonia. Regulation No 190 was published on 23 June 1993. This was a completely new Republic of Estonia and the annual budget, by the way, was 262 million euros, or 4.1 billion kroons. At present, our state budget is EUR 8.4 billion. I repeat: EUR 262 million was in 1993. Right now, we're basically just giving the cripples an excuse for expressing themselves! And it's as if we're proud that it's there again. Of course, it is a good thing that this too little will come, this 'need-based support', but it is essentially just a matter of labelling. Many people who are not exposed to it may have the impression that funeral support will be restored. It's nice, the government's working, it's like it's upstairs. In fact, we should pay the death grant exactly as some other support, which is considered to be the result of the fact. One example is the birth grant. The funeral is very expensive. It's expensive for everyone. Even a very moderate funeral is very, very expensive for a middle-income person. Older people often don't have that money anymore, and even if they do, the family doesn't get it right away, the coffin money isn't being held under the pillow, it has to be in the bank. So it was a very ugly cut. However, this has not been the only way to increase the state's income at the expense of the deceased. VAT on funeral services and funeral goods was increased from 5% to 18% at the same time and then to a further 20%. So it's still a very bad thing, the funeral got a lot more expensive. I am not tired of repeating that Estonia has joined the European Social Charter and the Social Security Code. Funeral allowance is one of the types of social security that Estonia has considered to be binding and has ratified at the time. As we are very well aware, we have been accused of all the time, even if the funeral allowance was 3000 kroons, that it is too small. But we lost it in the first place. At present, we will only pay funeral allowance to those who receive income support. But let us look around at the extent of poverty in Estonia! Many people do not qualify for it, but there are 76% of people in Estonia who receive wages below the average. Nearly half of these will receive less than EUR 400. We have 18.7%, or 278000 people, of relative poverty. These are huge numbers. In absolute poverty, 7.3%, or nearly 100,000, live. One in three unemployed lives in absolute poverty. One in three living alone lives below the poverty line. Pensions have risen a little, but the purchasing power of the pension has actually decreased. And we have certain areas of the Alatskivi, Peipsi border, Kallaste, where 40% of people live in relative poverty. So let's think! It's a lot of poverty. Many poor people don't get income support, but they're poor from poor. In any case, it is extremely unfortunate that we cannot pay a full death grant for everyone. To be honest, it's embarrassing to even talk about it. But the most embarrassing thing should be the Reform Party and the IRL government who stopped paying the coffin money five years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U241	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U242	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, It really is strange how fast we have the drafts moving today. I left the hall for two minutes, two draft laws were passed, the second one is about to finish reading. I'm sorry I couldn't ask the questions I had planned, but in this speech, I'd like to talk about them. Maybe the waitress will take the floor later and answer them. Point 1. My practice shows that the poorest and the most difficult are the few pensioners. At the same time, these are people who first pay off all debts, pay all the bills to the building management company, for heat and electricity, etc., and then try to live with a few tens of euros left. Income support may not be available to these pensioners, but they are the poorest people in one municipality or another and I think they will remain. The link between funeral allowance and income support is sucked out of your finger. This is, in my opinion, a purely political step which is intended to show that the funeral allowance has been brought back, but it will perhaps be received by a third of those who are likely to deserve it. The second question I have is specific. I had a little misunderstanding: a funeral planner who receives funeral allowance is also a municipality or city government according to this bill. In the case of rural municipality and city administration, is the same requirement that a specific deceased person has usually been single and must have received income support? Often these are the poorest people who have nothing at all. At the same time, they may have been thrown over the fence by life in such a way that they have not even received income support. The parish and city councils will have to pay for their funeral anyway. It is a very big request to the legislator. If you start paying funeral allowance to some extent again, since the portion of the income tax has not yet been restored to the municipalities, you could even do this good to cover all the missing persons with the funeral allowance, whose funerals are paid by the municipality or city government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U243	Thank you. There is no further request to speak, I will conclude the negotiations. No amendments to the draft were tabled. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading, and there are no other proposals. The second reading of Bill 726 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U244	Our next item is the second reading of the draft law amending the State Family Benefits Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 727. The social committee's waitress is Margus Tsahkna. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U245	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! I would remind you that the basic content of the draft law amending the State Family Benefits Act 727 is to increase the amount of child allowance for custody or family care to EUR 240. So far it has been 191 euros and 80 cents. The amendment concerns precisely those children who are caring for the family, and this decision is a positive one in every way. The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the preparation of the draft for the second reading at its two sittings: 4 November and 10 November. As no amendments to the draft law amending the Law on National Family Allowances were received by the deadline, it was decided at the meeting on 4 November to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda on 12 November (by 6, no respondents or abstentions), that the second reading be terminated (in the same way as 6 for, no one opposed), that the draft be sent to third reading when the second reading is closed, by 19 November (in favour of 6, no one opposed) and that it be proposed that the final vote be taken (in favour of 6, no one opposed). At its meeting on 10 November, it was decided to approve the procedural documents for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U246	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. In a situation where amendments that were not tabled were not discussed, we do not have a table of amendments either. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading. There are no other proposals. The second reading of Bill 727 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U247	Our next item is the second reading of the Social Welfare Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and the Act amending other laws. Commission waitress Jüri Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U248	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft Act amending the Social Welfare Act, the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and other laws was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 16 June and its first reading was completed on 17 September. The deadline for tabling amendments was 3 October. No amendments were tabled by the political groups or members of the Riigikogu. After the completion of the first reading, the Committee on Social Affairs met in eight sessions to discuss the draft. A number of opinions on the draft were sent from the draft target groups. Proposals were sent by the Estonian Association of Blind People, the Estonian Association of Patients, the Estonian Association of Visually Disabled People, the Association of Suppliers of Invaru and Special Welfare Services and, in particular, the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People and the Estonian Association of People with Mobility Disabled. At its meeting on 7 October, i.e. the first time the matter was discussed, the Committee on Social Affairs was familiar with the current rehabilitation arrangements, and discussions on the substance of the amendments were opened on 9 October. The initiator of the draft proposal asked for further amendments to be considered. On 13 and 14 November, the draft was discussed with representatives of the target groups. After examining the written opinions of the discussions, the Committee on Social Affairs decided to propose amendments to the draft. There were many amendments, I would like to introduce them more important. For example, the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People and the Estonian Central Association of Visually Disabled People, as well as the Estonian Association of People with Mobility Disabled, wanted the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund to compensate the employer for the cost of adjusting the jobs before people started working. Unfortunately, this amendment could not be supported, as paying the employer in advance would not speed up the adjustment and would not guarantee the end-use of labour market services. During the discussions, it was proposed to supplement the Employment Services and Benefits Act with provisions which would also allow a tool to be considered to be a necessary tool for working, regardless of disability, for carrying out work, as well as for managing a disabled person's daily life. At the same time, the Social Welfare Act regulates the provision of a tool to cope with everyday life. If a tool for everyday life is available and ensures that you can also cope with work, no additional tool will be provided. However, if you need additional help to work, you can also get it through the unemployment fund. The representatives of the Estonian Association of People with reduced mobility and the Estonian Central Association of Visual Disabled People also wanted disabled people to be assisted in employment and in the performance of their duties, while they felt it necessary that this assistance be provided throughout the employment relationship. The representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs explained to them that the current Employment Services and Benefits Act already has services in place and, in conjunction with taking into account the additional proposals, they fulfil the stated objective. For example, § 22 of the current Act provides a service to assist with an interview and work with a support person. The latter is a service for the disabled unemployed who need help and guidance from the disabled while working and receives up to 1000 hours during the first year of employment, if necessary. In addition, the Special Welfare Service Providers' Association also proposed that the deadline for taking over the obligation to pay the rehabilitation service should be reduced to 30 days. But, unfortunately, that's not possible. The draft has taken into account 40 days for this purpose, since during this period there must be a meeting between the evaluator and the client and there must also be time for the evaluator to request additional information if necessary in order to make a final decision. There was also a request for an overview and clarification of how the procedure for special care would look. Everything was explained. The Estonian Association of People with reduced mobility and the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People pointed out that without improved services provided by the local government, the objectives of the reform could not be achieved. It was explained to us that the state supports local authorities in providing social services. To this end, the European Social Fund (ESF) 2014-2020 has also been proposed. the amounts available for the year 2009. Several practical questions were raised during the discussions. For example, representative organisations proposed the development of an electronic system for providing evidence related to the work capacity reform. This coincides in some respects with the planned one-door policy, which was already on the agenda in the planning of the entire work capacity reform. Electronic solutions, of course, depend on the development of specific information systems. They gradually combine with the reform and, of course, they also become smoother to participate in the reform. Many of the issues and amendments presented in the referrals were those that can be resolved by a government regulation. Thus, for example, the Estonian Association of Visually Disabled People wishes to pay travel and accommodation costs to a person who supports a visually impaired person when he or she travels to a rehabilitation clinic with a needy person. More diapers were also wanted to be paid to people with reduced mobility. All these proposals can be resolved by government regulations. On the amendments, perhaps so much more that they were tabled in total 33. They were initially not presented, but eventually they met at 33 and all relate to the need to improve the law amending the Social Welfare Act, the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act in order to better contribute to the implementation of the labour capacity reform. For example, in the original text of the draft, a person of working age who has part-time work capacity is entitled, under the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act, only to a professional rehabilitation service if he or she needs it to take up his or her job or to maintain it. The amendment to the bill gives people a choice. If a person participates actively in the labour market, he or she is entitled to receive rehabilitation services under the Employment Services and Benefits Act. If a person does not want to be active in the labour market, he or she does not have the right to work rehabilitation, but he or she retains the right to receive social rehabilitation services that are conducive to daily life on the basis of the Social Welfare Act. By amending the law, the circle of people who can receive social rehabilitation services will be extended to those who do not want to be active in the labour market. Several declaratory amendments stress that the provision of the service must be carried out on an individual case-by-case basis. This is one of the fundamental pillars of the whole reform. The amendments also specify the rights of the Social Insurance Board. For example, if the Agency receives information that the service does not meet the needs of the person, it has the right to have a new rehabilitation plan for the person re-evaluated. The amendment also allows the Social Insurance Board to direct the person to the service of supporting everyday life or to the service of supporting work without drawing up a separate rehabilitation plan, as well as to the service of supporting living and living in the community. All the amendments listed are actually aimed at keeping people active. As regards aids, the Committee on Social Affairs supported the proposal to increase the age limit for young learners, with a limit of 90% for the reimbursement of aids, from the age of 24 to the age of 26. The amendments also specify the status of family members compared to the current version of the Social Welfare Act. Today's law refers to family members living together in the same home, the same address, and people living together in a common household. It is also specified that if a student reaches the age of 25 in the month in which he or she applies for income support, he or she will be considered 25 until the end of the month. The proposed amendments further specify the rights to use the tool, as well as the fact that, if the tool has been used up to its prescribed depreciation rate, the tool may be left free of charge to the user. Very many amendments are also purely linguistic and technical. Finally, the procedural decisions and proposals of the lead committee. The Social Affairs Committee decided at its meeting on 6 November to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 12 November, i.e. today, and proposed that the second reading be stopped. Jüri Jaanson was appointed rapporteur for the commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U249	Honourable Riigikogu, questions come to the waitress! The President has one request for you: since the questions will be printed in real time and will be displayed on the waitress's monitor, please ask your questions at a calm pace and very clearly! Thank you. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U250	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, In a television show this morning, a representative of the disabled said, commenting on the planned reform and on these drafts, that it was as if the government were going over the disabled people on a road roll. To demonstrate this, there will be a demonstration here in front of the Riigikogu today, where a large yellow roller has also been brought. In today's Question Time, the Head of Government said that all representatives and organisations of people with disabilities are well involved, their views have been taken into account. You also said that the Commission has done so. Today, however, there is a demonstration in front of the Riigikogu building, which is protesting against this reform. Why is that? Why do you and the Prime Minister understand things the same way and people with disabilities themselves and their organisations in a different way?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U251	Thank you for your question. First of all, to clarify so much that this road roll was already in place, I was there myself. But why do we understand things differently? That is probably what this policy is all about. If we look at the appeals that have been made to us the week before last, which are seeking a postponement of the reform, we will see that there are 3500 signatories. At the same time, the membership of Estonian disability organisations is nearly 22000 people and it is estimated that there are nearly 100,000 people of working age with disabilities. It is natural that some part of the target group considers that some of the circumstances surrounding the reform are completely unacceptable to them. At the same time, representatives of the target group have been present in the discussions on draft legislation on labour capacity reform. They have been discussed for a long time, their proposals have been taken into account and implemented as much as possible and reasonable. At the same time, the representatives of the target group have not been able to explain convincingly why the reform of working capacity should necessarily be stopped now and not go further, why additional expenditure is needed on the state and society. To conclude, it is inevitable that some part of the target group is always opposed. I myself belong to the target group, and my opinion is that the reform is all positive and welcome. When we summarise all the benefits of the reform, I do believe that it should be taken forward, including with the Social Welfare Act and the draft law amending the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U252	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U253	Thank you. I'm sorry, but they don't have time to print that fast. We're in an emergency right now. I ask you to ask my questions in such a way that the stenographer is able to do his job correctly. I'll give you more time, you can ask again for the part that followed the belleristics designation. You asked that if there are not enough funds in the state budget, what exactly does that mean? Who doesn't have enough? Please continue from there!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U254	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, Don't you think this bill requires strong linguistic editing? For example, it seems to me that the law has been passed on to belletrics. I read here this wording: 'if there is not enough funding in the state budget'. What do you mean, not enough? Enough for who and for what? There are no conditions that make financial resources inadequate in certain circumstances. A little later, it says that it must ensure that sensitive personal data are processed. What are these sensitive personal data? What are indelicate and, for example, drastic personal data? And so on.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U255	Who does not have enough resources and for what? What is the rule that states whether it is sufficient or not? And I had another example: sensitive personal data. What are sensitive personal data? What is delicate or rational, or I don't know, whatever personal data? Why do these forms have to be in the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U256	I do not think this question is quite relevant. But in the background I say so much that I have always admired Mikhail Stalnukhin's proficiency in the Estonian language and the ability to speak the word at all. It's been great. But these questions are, in fact, addressed to the technical side or to the language editors. I wouldn't say too much about it myself. My language knowledge is not good enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U257	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo! And please ask your question slowly and clearly!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U258	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Estonia has a large number of people with disabilities who have not worked for decades. Often, these people have only basic education. What measures are planned to be taken to ensure that these people also have an education that makes them attractive to employers?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U259	In fact, it all depends on whether a person wants to return to the labour market after all these decades. If he finds this desire in himself, either with the support of his loved ones or with the support of his own internal strength, the task of the work capacity reform is to motivate him to go to work through both existing and additional labour market measures, including the provision of support services. A person must get a job and stay there with the help of a supporter. In addition, there are labour market services that allow work to be practiced or practiced. All of this should help people get into the labour market. I totally agree that it's not easy, but somewhere there's this point where all these things have to start.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U260	Thank you. Please, Margus Tsahkna!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U261	Thank you very much. With regard to this draft, disability organisations have proposed national standards for social welfare services. These standards have not been established, and that is precisely why the views of people with disabilities and of the government differ. These standards would help people with disabilities into jobs, out of their homes. Why are social welfare standards not introduced by this draft? Then there wouldn't be any more of that fight.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U262	These standards have indeed been the subject of discussion. At the same time, I would point out that, when setting standards, their foundations should be proposed by the organisations of people with disabilities and special needs themselves. Standards can be based on what they are not satisfied with at the moment. If local authorities were to offer these services, much depends on how seriously local authorities would take these tasks. I believe that there is a great deal of work to be done here in social control, as well as in the supervision of rural governments. After all, rural governments must check how local authorities carry out their tasks.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U263	Thank you. Please, Siret Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U264	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The biggest deficit of this reform is precisely that the state is unable to allocate the necessary funds to support and rehabilitation services. The EUR 50 million allocated to support services will certainly not cover the needs of people with disabilities. Hence the question: why do you bring half of the law before the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U265	This question is being asked with partiality. I also argue that this message that EUR 50 million does not cover the needs of people with disabilities is not competent. We just don't know how big these needs are right now. We will only learn this once the performance assessments have taken place over the course of the year. Only then can we assess real needs. The current 50 million have been calculated on the basis of current volumes and is expected to cover the need.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U266	Please, Erki Arrow!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U267	Thank you. Good waitress! The maximum period for the provision of special care during which a person is entitled to receive a service may be a fixed period for determining the need for special care, but may not exceed five years. In exceptional cases, this period may be 10 years. My question is this: what are these exceptional cases and can this provision not create emotional differences among those involved? Perhaps many wish to receive this service for more than five years, but can't?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U268	Thank you for your question. The exception cases are therefore exceptional cases, so that we cannot pinpoint exactly what they might be. In the background, it is always necessary to take into account the possibility that there will be some cases that do not fall within the scope of the law when drafting legislation on persons with special needs or with impaired health. To this end, derogations are foreseen. The point is that the so-called diapason of people with special needs or the diapason of people with special needs is very wide and wide from the top to the end. We will never be able to foresee all possible options and therefore no definitive standards can be established. That, in itself, is not a purpose. But yes, that is why the possibility of exceptions is included. If a specialist came here to talk about this, he would certainly be able to give some examples of exceptional cases based on his experience, but I don't know them.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U269	Thank you. Please, Priit Onion!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U270	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! A month ago, this hall passed over the will of the majority of the Estonian people. Then many of our colleagues did not understand the will of the majority. Now we want to cross people with disabilities in the same way. Why are we unable to process drafts in the Riigikogu in such a way that no one gets a bad taste? I would continue with the question of Mr Tsahkna: why were social welfare standards not established together? You said that these standards should be proposed by the organisations themselves. Why didn't you discuss these in the Commission and offer standards to a large hall together?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U271	First of all, of the will of the majority of the people. I do not know whether, under the conditions of majority or representative democracy, it is possible to talk about ignoring the will of the majority. I don't think that's the issue today either. Surely the questioner should specify who he understands by majority. When we talk about petitioners, the petitioners were certainly not representatives of the majority. As to why we did not develop these standards together, I say so much that today the social welfare services or the standards of social welfare services that we are talking about are basically working. They have worked so far and will continue to work on the principle of flexibility: it is precisely these services that a person must receive, and in the same way that he needs individually. In my opinion, setting some frames on it is unjustified. But I repeat once again: if the organisations of people with special needs feel that some of the services provided to them should be standardised, because they are not satisfied with them now, they should develop and develop this plan themselves. So far, they haven't.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U272	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U273	Thank you. Good performer! You said that people with disabilities should say these standards and requirements themselves. After all, people with disabilities have repeatedly emphasised and stated this point. Even today, it was mentioned outside. The weakest place in this law is assistance and support services on the spot, disability, support person, personal assistant, sign language interpreter. After all, we only have a few dozen of the last ones in Estonia; they do not have enough. You see, there were dozens of people here today who can't hear. There's not enough translation. And when you say that we do not know what the needs of services on the ground are, how can we stop reading the second reading of this bill? I could give you some more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U274	I have not thought that they should definitely complete these standards themselves. I repeat: I assume that if people with special needs or their organisations are not satisfied with the provision of a particular service, they could draw up a basic standard for this. However, I rely primarily on the fact that the provision of services must be based on an individual need, so that each person can receive a fully suitable service. With the other part of your question, I completely agree. Helping people with special needs and involving them in society, providing support services for them, is not a weakness of this law, but of our society. This issue is not solved in any way within the framework of the labour capacity reform; it is a much wider issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U275	Thank you. With a stenogram in mind, I will explain, just in case, that the President has given the questioners more time when the verbatim has asked for the text to be repeated. Normally, I ask you to fit in the minute, but I expect you to speak more slowly so that the person can write the question down and not start ringing the bell when a few seconds have worn out. Even if you ask for a long story story, you might want to get to the question more quickly. It's just a request. Please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U276	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! You and I were here in front of the Riigikogu building today when this protest meeting was held. You said there would be 500 new jobs created under this law for those in need. Can you tell where these jobs will be created, whether in Tallinn or across Estonia? Who are the people who get to these places? Could they be the same disabled people? Or is it perhaps more useful to use this money to create 500 jobs, to support entrepreneurs who are willing to employ people with special needs?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U277	Thank you for your question. I'd like to make it clear that I didn't tell you about 500 new jobs. I talked about the fact that the Social Affairs Committee proposed to the Government of the Republic 'good will' to take priority over the next six years or over the period 2015 to 2020; I would not like to use this word, but I would like to employ 1000 people with partial health impairment in a 'positive discrimination'. I talked about it, and I repeat, not 500, but 1,000 people. If we look at the background, which is the real objective of the reform, the real aim of the reform is to include 10000 to 15000 people, both in the public and private sectors, in the labour market over the next six years. In fact, this is quite a small piece of work that the public sector should do here, in particular, when it comes to central authority, but also when it comes to the public sector as a whole. That's exactly what I meant. As regards all the amounts to be allocated, which you have asked about, I will clarify once again. It is not a question of creating a job for 1,000 people. It is not meant that there will be more jobs in the public sector for these 1 000 people, but that people will still be rotating in existing jobs. When current professionals leave, their jobs will be filled with people with partial health impairment, with other equivalent characteristics.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U278	Please, Mikhail Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U279	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable speaker! Here's the question. Entrepreneurs who have to create jobs and employ people with disabilities have a very important role to play in implementing this reform. The current incentives offered to create these jobs are clearly not enough. What do you think this additional incentive package should be for entrepreneurs to be more interested in recruiting people with disabilities?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U280	Thank you for your question. In addition to the existing social tax differentiation, i.e. the payment or compensation of the minimum social tax by the State, plus up to 100% compensation for the adaptation of the workplace, the new draft Employment Services and Benefits Act offers other labour market services. These are working with a support person, as well as compensating the employer for any other additional costs. The cost of hiring people with special needs is inevitable. But it's not that. It is actually about the substance of the reform, about repudiating prejudice. Our society can only be integrated if people with special needs are also taken on the labour market as they are all ordinary people. They should actually be able to do all the same things that ordinary people can do. That's the real goal. There is nothing to do, for decades we have lived in a situation where there has been a general understanding that people with special needs must be handed over and left to be among themselves. The current fundamental change will certainly not be easy. I have considered it my duty to try, at meetings with employers, to take down their prejudices that people with special needs will certainly not be able to do anything. I don't think so. Often people with special needs and people with partial health impairment can be more motivated and committed than ordinary people. They may be more correct because they have fewer outputs in life than in ordinary people, and this increases the motivation to work well. So their actual contribution to work can be greater than that of a normal employee. I stress once again that external variables such as labour market services in the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act are one thing, but a substantial change in the attitude of employers can be brought about by overcoming prejudice. Fortunately, we have many positive examples that the employer has not considered a much socially responsible approach to the problem. People with special needs or people with partial health impairment have also been employed to enrich their working group, seeing their potential for collective development.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U281	Please, Peter Laurson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U282	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, The government claims that there will be no reduction in subsidies after this bill becomes a law. At present, children with disabilities will receive a disability pension of 250 euros per month on average when they reach their age. With the new system in place, if they are identified as having a partial capacity to work, they will receive EUR 180 per month. Please explain why the government does not talk about matters the way they really are in a specific case where the decrease is obvious.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U283	Thanks! I'm saying the government's words have been arbitrarily interpreted here. For those who are current pensioners, benefits will not be reduced. The Employment Allowance Act, to which the Social Welfare Act and the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act constitute the Support Act, contains transitional provisions which determine that if a person is currently receiving more disability pension than he or she would be receiving disability benefit under the new system, his or her income is maintained at the rate of disability pension. Once again, this is a somewhat arbitrary interpretation. However, when we are talking about children and receiving their pension, I would point out that this 180 euros per month is not a fixed amount, but depends on a certain daily rate and relates very specifically to the number of days per month. Each year, this amount increases according to the increase in daily indexes. I can now say that, as the implementation of the entire draft legislation on labour capacity reform has been delayed for six months, they will be implemented from 1 January 2016 to 1 January 2016, this amount is actually EUR 184 instead of EUR 180. When current children reach adulthood, these amounts are quite different from about 180 euros.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U284	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U285	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, The change proposed in the draft will increase the number of persons for whom the unemployment fund is obliged to continue to provide rehabilitation services. My question has to do with this. How much is the number of these individuals increasing, and are there already plans for where we will take the money?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U286	Thank you for your question. Yeah, it's been designed and pretty accurate. We also have calculations in these amendments. The comment in Amendment 3, point 1, for example, states that the Social Welfare Act provided rehabilitation services to 16725 people in 2013, including 3500 disabled elderly persons and 5826 persons of working age with disabilities and mental illness. Of these, 4127 were persons of working age. In fact, the employment capacity reform is based on the assumption that these figures will remain in the same order of magnitude as the reform has started, for some 4 000 people of working age with no working capacity and 3 500 people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U287	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U288	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, All those affected by this reform have, of course, read these draft laws, but they still turn to us. I read in one of the addresses that reformers have missed important questions: what happens to those who are caring for themselves and where jobs come from. And further: activating measures will never work properly without a system of jobs and functioning services, but will have undesirable consequences. How do you comment on this appeal?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U289	Thank you for your question. I will comment on this based on your own question. You have raised the important question of carers and jobs. In fact, as a whole, there are many other important aspects of the work capacity reform that no one can give an exact answer to at present. I would like to emphasise once again that this is a very fundamental and novel undertaking. We have no experience here in Estonia and elsewhere in the world, we do not know exactly what the expected bottlenecks of the reform are and whether everything will work as planned. Let's assume it is. I would point out that the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development has also warned against the reform being carried out on an excessive scale, as it will be very difficult to reverse if any errors occur. As far as personal carers are concerned, we cannot resolve their question within the framework of this reform. This has to be resolved completely separately. I agree with you that the issue of carers is very acute and very topical. When it comes to jobs, how they are created is also a question of worldview. We may be relying on demand-driven job creation, but we can also rely on the government to create these jobs. Still depending on who's in power. I assume that the labour market is still based on the creation of demand and then of services, the creation of jobs. It is also normal for there to be rotation in existing jobs. We are going to put here the loss of prejudice or the active fight against prejudice, which the work capacity reform itself carries, as well as the increased accessibility. It is precisely the improvement of accessibility that is important. It is not so much a question of job creation, but of access to jobs for those with partial employment capacity. I am talking about one more thing that I pointed out in the debate on a key national issue last week, which I actually talked about in January 2013 as well as the debate on a national issue was also important on the agenda. The main problem is the large employment gap between ordinary people and people with special needs. About 30% of people with special needs are occupied, compared with 70% of ordinary people of working age. That difference, 40%, is a very bad thing that should be eliminated. I am also referring here to one of the most important provisions of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which deals with equalising the situation of ordinary people with special needs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U290	Thank you. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U291	Thank you. Dear waitress, Paragraph 1155 (3) provides that the right to request the State to take over the obligation to pay a fee is not for a person in captivity or in remand. At the same time, the status of these persons is absolutely different. Incarceration is the person who has been judged and convicted by the court. There's a person in custody who doesn't have such a decision and may not be. This law now equates two people of absolutely different status. Why is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U292	Thank you, Honourable Asker. Indeed, that is a good question. The Committee on Social Affairs has never discussed this, but it deserves attention. I believe that this provision should be discussed, although I assume that there must be some very real reason for placing a person in remand, too, for a reason. A person may avoid legal compliance or court order and therefore be remanded into remand. Actually, there's a reason. However, I repeat that this is a place for reflection and perhaps an amendment. I agree.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U293	Thank you. Please, colleague Jüri Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U294	Thank you very much, Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Dear waitress, Mr. Jüri Jaanson! In the light of this bill, I would like to ask about the transport service in particular. I myself have come across this issue in the city of Tallinn, where Termak offers this service. But in your opinion, after the entry into force of this bill as a law, how can this issue be resolved in other Estonian municipalities? Can you see that there will be additional funding for municipalities in connection with this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U295	Thank you. Yes, I do. During the next six years, a large part of the 50 million coming from the European Social Fund and going to local authorities to implement support services has been planned for travel transport support for work. Not only in Tallinn, but all over Estonia. How much money is needed specifically for the transport service, we do not know exactly how to estimate it at the moment, but according to my data, 12 million out of this 50 million are intended to provide additional support for the transport service.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U296	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U297	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, The main target groups of the training services of the Unemployment Insurance Fund are people with reduced mobility. Where does the unemployment fund accommodate a wheelchair in the customer's continuing training? Are there enough universal dormitories and hotels or are there plans for such...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U298	A little slower, please! You have the question written down, just read the words slowly!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U299	... Are there enough universal dormitories and hotels or are there plans to build more such accommodation in institutions for further training with EU money?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U300	Thank you for your question. Indeed, people with reduced mobility are one of the largest target groups for whom the services of the unemployment fund are intended. But you have now put a question to which it is very difficult to give a clear and concrete answer, because we do not know how many of these people turn to the unemployment fund to actively seek employment. As regards the suitability of hotels and dormitories, yes, this is a very important problem that also needs a long-term solution. If, indeed, even a hundred people with disabilities go to one training at a time, there is a major problem. However, I expect that the unemployment fund will be able to disperse training and other employment services to the extent that existing places will cover all the needs. But I am, as a questioner, completely in agreement with you that, in the future, the reform must reveal how much it is necessary for such places to serve people with reduced mobility. Let's just say that if we know how many people with reduced mobility per year on average want to attend training, all these necessary places must be created. However, when we launch the reform, we cannot assume that if, in the first year, a very large number of people want the same training, this will also be the case in the coming years. It is important to look here at what is estimated to be some kind of annual average, and therefore these dormitory or hotel places must also be adapted.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U301	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U302	Thank you. Dear waitress, At present, people with disabilities can buy their aids from non-Estonian countries. After the reform, will disabled people continue to be able to buy an equivalent tool with the support of the state from, for example, Sweden or Finland or elsewhere in the European Union instead of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U303	Thank you for your question. Yeah, maybe, there's a short answer. Buying or worrying a tool under the new system is "bounty-based." That money's moving with a human being. A person chooses a place where he buys a tool, but at a set limit. Anything that's more than that, a person pays for himself, and if he prefers to buy a more expensive machine, who can have something against it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U304	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U305	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! I listened to questions and answers, and I had the impression that we practically lacked understanding of the labour market and its readiness. Employers are also not prepared to participate actively in this area. This is about services, communication and government readiness. Why was it not possible to prepare a vision and then come up with the relevant legislation and other necessary decisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U306	Thank you for your question. Again, I say that the question is based on the wrong assumption. In fact, employers' representatives have been actively involved in the development of the reform. And employers' representatives have made it clear that they are interested in implementing the reform and that they are in favour of it, because it is also in their interests. It is also in the interests of employers that a richer society, a more equal society, has more labour. This issue is very topical in the context of a declining population. What is the need for labour in Estonia? Employers are involved in the reform and they have made their position very clear: their position is in favour of the reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U307	Thank you. Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U308	Thank you. Dear waitress, If the people for whom the law is being made do not understand its content and its positive impact, would it not be right to interrupt the second reading and reform it, involve the parties more and explain it to them? This is a very expensive reform, and it will cost the country the right amount to make a mistake here. Why is the Reform Party and the Social Democrats opposed to making the bill better and more understandable?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U309	Thank you for your question. I would argue that both draft laws on labour capacity reform, i.e. this and the next draft Act on work capacity benefits 678, have been very much explained in many ways, both in the media and in meetings. This has been done by both the Social Affairs Committee and representatives of the Government and the Ministry of Social Affairs. Yes, there are a number of people who still claim that they do not understand the content of this bill. But you can ask the other way around: How much must be explained? Where's the border, really? We are talking about reform being expensive. Indeed, it is expensive, but it is also very expensive to postpone the reform without justification. The question is what we will achieve by interrupting the second reading. People have met us at the meetings of the Social Affairs Committee, where discussions on both draft laws have taken place throughout 21 years, but they have not fully understood us. Do we really hope that there is still some way that these people will understand how this reform will work? I stress once again that the reform is new, its implementation will not be easy. The risks are certainly there, but I do not consider it justified to interrupt the second reading of the draft on the grounds that a small part of the target group simply does not fully understand it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U310	Thank you. Please, Urbo Vaarmann!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U311	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, In Estonia, nearly 90% of companies are small enterprises. Good examples on the subject are given today from large companies, which are 10%. Don't you think all this bureaucracy is going to be too hard for small businesses? It is not meant for them, it is meant for the cities of Tallinn and Tartu. How do you imagine small businesses will cope with this bureaucracy?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U312	Yes, it is an inevitable fact that our economy is developing in that country, that indeed 90% of our businesses are small businesses. That's right. But I don't think you can really get behind this by carrying out the reform. There are also very good examples of small businesses employing people with special needs or partial health impairment. These people are well-implemented. I think that existing and emerging labour market measures will also cover the needs of small businesses. Once again, each case will be resolved individually and the ability of individual small businesses to contribute to the recruitment of people with partial employment capacity will also be reviewed. The Unemployment Insurance Fund shall endeavour to make every effort to ensure that the additional costs of partial damage to the health of a worker are not in any way borne by a small enterprise.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U313	Thank you. Please, Aivar Chef, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U314	Good manager! Good waitress! This bill talks about rehabilitation teams. Well, if I get it right, you were talking about 500 employees out there who are just hired to provide rehabilitation services. Can you tell me how many of these teams are coming to Estonia? And do they come to every municipality or county, or do they only operate at the unemployment fund departments? As I read in this bill, entrepreneurs are also able to offer such a service. However, if you look at these conditions, higher education is required, etc. Can you tell me if these teams are the 500 people you were talking about? And how much money could be needed?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U315	I'll talk it over again. I certainly didn't talk about 500 people in the yard to provide rehabilitation services. I was talking about 1,000 people being recruited in the public sector. Basically, I understand what you're talking about. We are talking about the departments of the Estonian unemployment fund and the case managers to be recruited. When it comes to these, they are hired at the unemployment fund and have to meet certain requirements. But for them, it is very important, and I am also in favour of a very large number of people with part-time work capacity who have a personal experience of coping with cases. I have proposed to a number of people with special needs to go and contact the unemployment fund now to participate in the necessary trainings, train themselves and later apply for the case manager competition. I believe that this is one of the opportunities open to people with partial work capacity. I think it's a very positive opportunity.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U316	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Korb, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U317	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, I cannot quite agree with you that the measures currently proposed and planned for the future are sufficient to create jobs for people with disabilities. At the same time, I agree that there must be a complete change in the attitude of employers to this issue. How do you feel that the state could set an example here and apply more people with disabilities in its field, the public sector?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U318	Thank you for your question. First of all, I do not fully agree that the attitude of employers is very bad. There are positive examples and generally employers understand when talking to them. They are in favour of reform. Rather, there are prejudices in society at all or in the community. The problem is actually wider and this attitude must be broken. However, as far as the state can set an example and apply more people with disabilities in the public sector, this is the subject I mentioned in the previous response. In the Committee on Social Affairs, we have proposed to the Government of the Republic that, in its action plan, it be envisaged that, by way of example, 1 000 people should be employed as a 'positive discrimination' in the next six years. The point is to give encouragement and an example to employers from private sector representatives.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U319	Thank you. Please, Annely Akkermann!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U320	Thank you. I ask the other people in the hall to be quieter when the question is asked, otherwise the stenographer will not hear what to write! Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U321	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, thank you very much. The cornerstone of the work capacity reform is the assessment of working capacity, for which there is currently no methodology. The National Audit Office has drawn attention to the experience of Great Britain, where there was a similar reform, which, unfortunately, led to 30% appeal against decisions to assess working capacity. In Estonia, the number of planned cases of capacity assessment is 55000. Aren't you afraid that we will bring about a number of trials and shouldn't the methodology for assessing the ability to work be developed before the start of the work capacity reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U322	Thank you for your question. Yes, indeed, the cornerstone of the work capacity reform is the assessment of working capacity. Its cornerstones are also case-by-case arrangements, as well as activity requirements. But that's it. As far as the evaluation methodology is concerned, it actually exists. At the end of November, its actual pilotage begins. A hundred people from different locations, four counties, are involved in the piloting process, and the methodology is expected to be further refined. And this work must be done before the reform begins. The start is scheduled for 1 January 2016. The justification of the methodology for assessing the employment capacity reform is now evident in the piloting process and, of course, later in its implementation. I am certainly not going to propose here the expected number of cases based on what has taken place in England. England has a slightly different system in nature. This is a system where most of the costs of the reform were passed on to the employer. We don't have that. I stress once again that our project is unique, our project is novel. I very much hope that the piloting will assure us that the methodology for assessing the ability to work is watery. That is why I do not want to manipulate or throw into the air any predicament here. I assume we've made a good start. And we will go on with this, we will continue this during the next parliamentary term, and we will implement the work capacity reform as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U323	Thank you. Please, Lauri Laasi!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U324	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! I assume you went to see the disabled people gathered before Parliament today. What impression do you have of what kind of message did you think a roller parked in front of the house?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U325	Thank you for your question. Yes, your assumption is correct. I went there. When we're talking about a message, it was carrying a protest message. I've talked enough about it here. There is always a small target group that doesn't like anything, who, despite meeting them and explaining things, has been discussed for quite a long time and thoroughly, whose proposals have been taken into account as much as possible, has been implemented as much as possible, but who nevertheless step out of the conference room and say to the public: 'No, we don't like it. We do not agree with that. " There's nothing you can do about it. But we have democracy and let's keep it that way.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U326	Thank you. Please, Erki Arrow, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U327	Thank you. Good George! Shouldn't the statistics have been established before the reform started? After all, we have many officially disabled people who are actually able to work but are no longer used to working. Thank you to the former Minister for Social Affairs, Mr Nestor, for this reform. Now the question: will the existing reform in the future increase the pension for the inability to work, or will it reduce it? I'm asking you for a sum!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U328	Thank you, Erki! I hope your gratitude will reach the former Minister of Social Affairs. But the statistics on work capacity reform are very well in place. Indeed, statistics are sad in this sense that there are very many people who do not have work habits because they have been absent from the labour market for a very long time. Somewhere, however, there is a point where we need to start again in order to find among those people who still have a strong desire to return to the labour market, the will to improve their own well-being and increase their wealth. When we are talking about statistics, the current state of play in Estonia is about 100,000 people of working age who have part-time work capacity, more or less 40% of whom, or actually less than 40%, have been implemented in the labour market. These are good people who have found opportunities for themselves, but I must say that a very good job has also been done by the unemployment fund. Of these 100,000 people of working age, an estimated one third is perhaps one third of them, we do not know exactly, because new assessments are still coming, who in the future will be officially absent, i.e. they will not be subject to activity requirements. If they want to find a way to be involved in the labour market, it is voluntary for them. But just that less than 40%, or more than a third, is the target group targeted by the work capacity reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U329	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U330	Thank you. Dear Jüri Jaanson! In answering my previous question, you said that, after the reform was launched, a disabled person could buy a tool wherever he wanted. The text of the second reading distributed to us in section "Requirements for the sale or lease of an aid instrument' of § 1163 (2) states that the seller or tenant of the aid must ensure that at each point of sale of the company at least one specialist who has an invitation to a specialist of the aid instrument issued under the Professional Act is available to us. And the first paragraph of the section states that the State will only assume the obligation to pay if the seller meets all the conditions. When you read this section, how can you say that a disabled person can buy a tool wherever he or she wants?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U331	Thank you, Kadri Simson, for the question. In my opinion, the emphasis of the question was a little bit elsewhere. The focus of the question was on whether aids could be bought from abroad. And I don't really see any obstacle to that. Yes, these technical restrictions really do exist and, of course, the state must accept the point of sale. It's not like you're going off some black market and you're gonna get some kind of product and the state's gonna pay for it, but it's gonna be broken in a week, for example. I'm sure that's not the way it works. Perhaps there was a contradiction between us in this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U332	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Sing, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U333	Thank you. The subjects of this law are rehabilitation and aids. The Minister has also stressed here that the order of aids is shortening and the order of rehabilitation is disappearing. The Commission was recently discussing deadlines. At first, they offered two years to rehabilitate, then one year. For one year, a representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs said there was no money. The Reform Party did not vote in favour for one year either, and voted against. However, this decision was taken. Which one is it, is it gonna be one year or more? It was decided one year, but there's no money for it. And what about the tools, the money for them? They've had a lot of problems, too. Enlighten the hall on these questions!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U334	Thanks for the questions. There were quite a few questions, although one could be asked. Okay, it doesn't matter. Yes, we did have a great discussion over the length of the rehabilitation order, but I would not be based here on what the Reform Party decided or what the Reform Party was doing. I am still based on what the Committee on Social Affairs decides or does. The Social Affairs Committee decided that the length of the rehabilitation order could be up to one year, and according to the Ministry of Social Affairs officials, it should be covered by the reform instruments. But I very much hope, in fact, for what the Minister said: that, above all, the order of aids will disappear. I know very well what it means to be around people without a tool. I very much hope that we will work to ensure that the order of aids disappears. This is one of the important elements of the reform, one of the reasons why we want to change the existing regime. That is why the reform should not stop by suspending the procedure for today's drafts. The same is true of rehabilitation. These things must become clearly better.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U335	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U336	Thank you, Madam President. Good colleague Jüri! The fact that the order of service is one year or two years of compliance with the law does not in itself make a person happy. A person needs a service, and it's a matter of money. Aid money has been running out for 15 years in October-November. It's known for 15 years! Do we need to change the law, or would it be easier to channel more money to obtain aid, and then perhaps we wouldn't have to go to any trouble with the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U337	Thank you for your question. Let's get back to the whole thing. We cannot reduce the whole capacity reform to aids alone. When we talk about aids separately, indeed, the order is one or two years. Once again, I do not want any queues. I've been in this situation myself, I know what it means to be without aids. I have met and talked to people who are trying to cope without a tool because they have no money to buy it or there is a queue ahead. Yes, the usual practice of recent years is that the state allocates funds from the budget which are insufficient, although they have increased quite a bit year after year. The practice has been that the State allocates additional funds with an additional budget, but these are still not sufficient. However, I am not sure that there is always a reason for lack of money. Perhaps the inefficient distribution also plays its role. With the same bill, the distribution of aid can actually be reorganized. All of this will be managed by the Social Insurance Board. I very much hope that, thanks to additional resources and additional support measures, the issue of queues will disappear, as the Minister has promised.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U338	Thank you. Please, Urbo Vaarmann, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U339	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Lauri Laasi asked about the people who came to the Riigikogu building. What makes you think that their position is wrong and that our position, those in opposition, is wrong? Why do you think that only you and the coalition have the right position?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U340	I have not expressed any conviction that their position is wrong. I've been saying that these people have been dealt with, that they've been told. The kind of thing that their position is wrong, I haven't, I'll say it again, somewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U341	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U342	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, My question also concerns the example of the public service in recruiting people with disabilities and creating jobs for them. Today, there is an overview of the report on the civil service last year. There is no mention in this report of the number of people with disabilities currently employed in public service, either at national level or in local governments. Do we even have the knowledge of how many people currently working in the public service in Estonia have special needs? Is that enough? And if it is not enough, what do you think is the reason why so far the public service has not set a sufficient example and employed these people?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U343	Thank you for your question. That information is available. I don't know why this wasn't specifically mentioned in the review. However, I also see no direct reason why somewhere in the public service report must be specifically emphasised as to how many people with special needs or partial health impairments are at work. Everyone at work does work, makes society richer. And to distinguish them from whether they are part-time or special needs or ordinary people is pointless. Now, the second thing is whether this is a sufficient number. This is, in my opinion, an equally pointless question. What is really sufficient in this context? However, when it comes to specific figures, just a while ago, when we had very large discussions on the expansion of social tax differentiation, the figures pointed out how many people in the public sector with special needs and health damage, or partial work capacity, are working. Unfortunately, I don't have the bill here, and I don't want to speculate. But there are thousands of these people. If there's any interest in it, I have that information on my desk. This is what we really discussed as to whether or not extending the distinction of social tax to the public sector could benefit the employer as an additional support measure.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U344	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U345	Thank you, Madam President. Good colleague Jüri! Ten minutes ago, you said there's a small target group for every bill we've been working on who's not happy with it. Please explain whether the small target group for the two draft laws today is the few dozen people who were on the court before the Riigikogu, or whether this target group is all disabled and partially disabled people! If there are really a few dozen people, how have they been able to make such a huge response in the media and in society at all? And if this is a small target group, will they just be ignored? But if the target group is the entire community of people with disabilities and inability to work, will it pay them to impose a law against which they are almost all opposed?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U346	Good colleague Viktor! I don't think it's necessary to force the word 'little'. I'm sure there's a dissatisfied part of this target group, but I don't think that confrontation is any bill. We have seen enough in this vote that there are many draft laws adopted in full peace and consensus. What I was saying was that some people today do not consider it right to implement the reform immediately on the basis of the solutions that have been put forward. If you claim that these people have been overlooked, I do not agree with that. I was in front of this house today, too. I have been in contact with these people, the whole Social Affairs Committee has listened to their views several times in different sessions. We have discussed each other, explained the positions, analysed the proposals and tried to take account of their wishes as far as possible. Very many proposals have been taken into account. If, nevertheless, they do not agree with the progress of the reform as it is planned, it is their democratic right. My position is different, the position of the Committee on Social Affairs is different.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U347	Thank you. Please, Annely Akkermann, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U348	Thank you very much. You agreed that the assessment of working capacity is one of the cornerstones of this reform. You admitted that the methodology was still being developed, but you expect it to be all right. In my opinion, the house should not be built on sand. The second cornerstone of the reform is jobs for people with disabilities, without them, the requirement for activity is empty work and the chewing of the spirit. Are there sufficient support measures available for entrepreneurship to create 40,000 to 50,000 jobs?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U349	Thank you for your question. I'll fix you up a little bit. I wasn't talking about the methodology being developed. I said that there is an evaluation methodology, but it will be tested at the end of November in order to correct and correct small errors at the latest by the time the reform is launched. That's what I was talking about. I said, yes, that the assessment of employment is one of the cornerstones of the reform, just like activity requirements and a case-by-case individual focus on people. As far as jobs are concerned, for people with reduced working capacity, we can talk about jobs called 'protected jobs' and, to some extent, of supported jobs. All other places are more market-based or bidding-based, i.e. they arise when demand for them arises. But under the conditions of our declining population, these jobs will be created. I think that the huge challenge is to support the unemployment fund in bringing together a person and a few job vacancies. After all, the aim of the reform is to involve people with reduced working capacity in the free labour market, which means helping them in a position to be able to apply for jobs as equally as usual as possible. It certainly cannot be accepted that people with special needs must have the right to take jobs away from ordinary people somewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U350	Thank you. Please, Marko Pomerance!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U351	Thanks! My question is very simple: where is the job? There are two men from Põlva County in the hall. Põlvamaa is the third of my favorite counties. The first one is, of course, Lääne-Viru County. And when I think about the people that Minister Kruuse described here as the whole potential target group that could all be valued, and I think about how many people there are who have nothing to do with getting a job, I see a much bigger problem that, whether you have partial work capacity or disability or lack of disability, you just don't have a job. Don't you think we're doing a lot of work and doing a lot of action, but we're actually cheating on people? In fact, there are no jobs waiting for these people.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U352	Thank you, good questioner! I hope the third county you like is Pärnumaa. But when we're talking about jobs, I'm saying we're going to approach it in a bit of a simplified way. It is still the same thing we were talking about earlier. We were talking about decades of attitude towards people with partial work capacity, current disability pensioners, to whom society gives out disability pension as a willow, saying essentially that you should see for yourself how you are doing. With such an attitude, they have no motivation to try to get a job. Getting a job is just beginning to improve one's well - being from an inner desire. If we look at the factors that help a person to work, they are education, skills. At some point, we need to start making this system better, thinking about how these people get an education, how they can get better jobs, how they can be more competitive. The whole work capacity reform is a very broad issue. We certainly cannot implement it by trying to put together some very, very large plan, risking some kind of error. I think that, in answer to the previous question, I actually answered that question. I think jobs are coming, but the key to this is two things. Above all, the key is to revive people's motivation. The second key is in case management: a person, along with his/her skills, level of education and abilities, is brought together with a specific job so that he/she can apply for it. That's what we can do right now. In the future, we must, of course, extend the reform of working capacity by ensuring that people with partial working capacity have the best access to education.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U353	Thank you. Please, Lauri Laasi, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U354	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! In your earlier life, you gathered fame because of your perfect performance. What prevents you, as a politician, from taking time off to work on this bill again so that it becomes a perfect and satisfactory draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U355	Thank you for a good question. How does my perfect performance in a previous life, as you expressed, relate to the satisfaction of the reformers? My competitors did not like the perfect performances of my previous life, so not all parties were quite satisfied. Simply put, this is the way to take the situation now, but I certainly will not, because there is no way in which we can talk about athletic competition in the reform, if that is what you mean.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U356	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U357	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! Thank you for your meaningful answers. First of all, I would like to thank my colleague, Mr Pomerants, who mentioned Põlvamaa in good words. But the problem with Põlva County is that there aren't enough jobs. The entire workforce reform will cost around 350 million euros. Do you share my view that if half of this money went to create real jobs, this reform would be much more successful?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U358	Thank you for a good question. No, I don't agree with that. Indeed, the total cost of the workforce reform is estimated at EUR 354 million. In fact, we could talk about this, depending on which side we are approaching, that the real costs are 304 million, but an additional EUR 50 million will be added to the European Social Fund to support municipalities in helping people to work. Here comes the 50 million. But the answer is no. I do not share this view for the simple reason that it would be artificially created jobs and that, in principle, artificially created jobs would not last long.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U359	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U360	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The education issue has been one of the issues at stake in this whole issue. When we look at the educational opportunities of our children, 17 to 18. until the age of 18, children with special needs are quite well cared for. They are trained and maintained and are also guaranteed transport. If necessary, there is also a place for a student home. However, if they want to move on to higher education or stay home for a long time, then we have little training and adult education to do with people with special needs. Have you discussed these solutions with your Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U361	Thank you for your question. Yes, we have dealt with this problem, with their educational needs, but especially in the context of vocational education. When a normal young person goes from primary school to vocational school, it is usually the case that when he graduates from vocational school, he begins to see where he goes to work. We had a debate on how to organise this in a better way for people with partial health impairment who are graduating from vocational education. How would they get hurtless to get a job? The solution is that the unemployment fund will be keeping an eye on these young people earlier, for example a year before leaving vocational education and training. Even then, the unemployment fund begins to look for jobs that correspond to their place of residence, invitation, abilities and wishes. A year earlier, the unemployment fund starts working on it. We have been discussing this issue, and it is one of the activities related to the reform. But I would also like to add that I thank you for emphasising this issue. Once again, I also think that the issue of education in the wider sense is very important if we want to further develop the reform of the capacity for work in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U362	Please, Priit Onion, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U363	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! We have a good example of this draft here, and I am very grateful to you for that. That is why I ask you to describe what this bill will change specifically for you when it becomes a law. What are these specific things, services or assistance that are not presently available and which will be after the adoption of the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U364	Thank you for your question. When we talk specifically about this bill, it is in support of the draft law on capacity support for work, which will be discussed here next. Basically, there are three things that this bill will change. First, a uniform administration of aids, second, the organisation of rehabilitation services. Rehabilitation services become social and work-based, professional. Social rehabilitation, as is still the case with the Social Insurance Institution, is dealt with by occupational rehabilitation, i.e. rehabilitation, which helps people to get a job and work, is dealt with by the unemployment fund. Labour market services, such as the possibility of working with a support person and getting help for an interview, will also be added. These are services that help a person with partial work capacity to first cope with the activity requirements of the unemployment fund, secondly, help him to get a job, and thirdly, help him to endure at work. These services are intended to support both the needy and the employer. These are the three main points that the Social Welfare Act and the Labour Market Support and Services Act should improve.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U365	Thank you. Please, Andrus Island!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U366	Ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur from the Commission. I have also been in contact with people who now work in vocational schools, who train people with disabilities, and I know that it is a pretty impossible mission for them to find a professional job after school. There are very few companies and companies that are willing to restructure their work. Last week, Minister Kruuse said in this Chamber of Riigikogu that 12 million euros have been allocated to ensure transport for visually impaired and autists. They can't drive a public car or a car. Can you give some concrete examples of where people with disabilities would be able to work more in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U367	Thank you for your question. I would first like to point out that this 12 million is intended not only for the blind but also for everyone else who needs transport and is not able to use public transport or their own car. As far as the substance of the question is concerned, I have nothing concrete to offer. But I told you before, and I want to repeat once again that the key to the solution is an early turn to the unemployment fund. If a person stays a year until he or she graduates from a vocational school, the unemployment fund will start looking in good time for a job corresponding to his or her profile. The most critical of those who have completed part-time vocational education and training is that if they do not get a job immediately after leaving vocational education and training, their skills will be lost or reduced and worse, they will feel hopeless, lose their working habits and, in the long term, become a so-called discouraged person on the labour market. To avoid this, the unemployment fund must be aware of these people. Cooperation between the unemployment fund and vocational schools is very important here. The third party, of course, is a person with his loved ones. In the background, once again, there must be a starting point where we are going to change the system. I think that it is very important for young people in particular that this change be addressed early.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U368	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U369	Thank you, Mr President. A few years ago, at the Ministry of Education, we created an opportunity for young people with special needs to receive higher education. Life quickly made its own adjustments. For example, a very talented young person wanted to study law, got into it, received a scholarship, but did not fit into the premises of the legal institute in Tallinn, University of Tartu. During the first year, a lot of lectures were redeployed, but at one point a young person gave up. Is there a conviction in the Commission that this kind of intervention in life will not prevent noble goals from being achieved?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U370	Thank you for your question. I don't think we should even think that we're going to be stuck behind some kind of hindrance. If life has caused such a unfortunate incident, then in the future they should not be tolerated. This is also much of the subject of the reform of the capacity for work, breaking prejudices and changing society's attitudes in the broadest sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U371	Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U372	Thank you. It is claimed that the availability of rehabilitation services will improve after the adoption of this Act. As we know, so far, the lack of money has largely hampered rehabilitation. Please state what are the important changes proposed in the draft law that will ensure better rehabilitation?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U373	Thank you for your question. One of the main changes is the biggest minus of the current system. It has been said from year to year that the current system will provide an average of 483 euros per person for rehabilitation. The procedure is that a specific plan must be drawn up before a person is sent to rehabilitation. Often, however, for most people with special needs or partial work capacity, the situation has been repeated year after year, so that they can get a rehabilitation plan done for this money, but the actual rehabilitation service is no longer available. That's the state of affairs right now. When we talk about the future, we want to circle the regulation, that is the content of the work capacity reform. The same draft, which is being dealt with, divides rehabilitation into two parts: one is social rehabilitation and the other is occupational rehabilitation, which is then provided by the Social Insurance Institution and the unemployment fund respectively. Another very important change is the higher amount which, according to current calculations, can be allocated to one person's rehabilitation of EUR 1 500 per person. So, in financial terms, the difference is huge. Plus, in certain specific cases, especially social rehabilitation organised by the Social Insurance Board, there is no longer any need for a specific rehabilitation plan. A person is sent directly to use the service. These are the main changes that should improve access to rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U374	Good waitress, thank you for your answer! No further questions. I open negotiations and ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by Marika Tuus-Lauli! Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U375	Ladies and gentlemen, I want to start again with what Tiia Sihver, the spokesperson for the disabled, said in this Chamber when discussing this issue as a matter of national importance. He said that we are in this Chamber today, but what are we actually discussing when Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, Minister Urmas Kruuse, Minister Helmen Küttt, and also the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, Heljo Pikhof, have said directly that this law will be adopted either way or otherwise and there is nothing to fix anymore. This was confirmed here today by Jüri Jaanson. Tiia Sihver said, "What's the point of playing blind again, lowering the tension and allowing us to blow off steam as soon as you go from this hall to make these drafts a law?" And that's exactly what happened, the same day they decided these questions. The meeting that took place in front of this house today was, in fact, the last desperate scream or attempt by people with disabilities, people with special needs, that suddenly something can change. But we can't. I'm still going to talk a little bit about this situation. It was quite awkward to look at, when these people had come to the house and this roller had been brought in, then Deputy Speaker of the Coalition Laine Randjärv and Jüri Jaanson went to stand in front of the roller and did not allow this meeting to be officially opened. They actually started to talk about how good this reform is, what gets better and what's good. The disabled asked them to go away several times so that they could carry out their program six or seven times. I'm sorry, but these people got out of the way because the roller put the voices in and started moving. And then this roller, symbolically, ran over a slogan that had been written down about the wishes of people with disabilities, which we ignore. This embarrassing situation was out there today. In fact, these two draft laws are simply intended to survive the coalition, to remain in power for a long time, but still to be crudely accepted. They have not been properly thought through or tested. At the same time, it affects a huge number of people, 10,000 people, and with them their carers, guardians, embraces everyone who is directly involved with people with disabilities. And the mistakes that have been made may not come out immediately; they may not come to light until over the years. We've actually seen it all before. We also saw this when the law of rehabilitation was passed. It was in 2003, I remember very accurately. Then we also said that there would be an individual approach and everything would be very good. So far, the system has not been repaired. Let's just say that this law is trying to make a difference. I would like to say once again that it is not that this reform is about adopting two laws. This has been emphasised several times. I should have started by getting a little more rehabilitating and helping people. But let's keep going. I will bring out the main errors of today's draft law. They say there's going to be more rehabilitation. In 2016, only 509 people will be rehabilitated. At the same time, 15,000 people are wanted to work in five years. Who's got enough here? That's not enough money! If the order was to be set for one year, the Ministry of Social Affairs said there was no money. So what are we talking about? And there has also been a great deal of debate about aids. Some tools are work-related, others are. When, then, does a person change wheelchairs or crutches or other devices? Well, it's absurd the whole thing! These things have been shaken up, changed, and re-circulated. That is why it has given such a dubious impression that there does not seem to be a firm position. I repeat, there is a need for insurance against accidents at work and occupational diseases. An incentive package for employers is needed, which is one of the main measures, but it has not been dealt with in absolute terms. We want to get people to work, but there aren't really any jobs. The Minister has said several times that this is a private sector issue and we cannot decide anything here. Actually, it's not exactly like that. We should be able to do a lot. Remember, we had the blind association's production tentacle and a number of social jobs as well, it would be welcome and I think it is very necessary. Also, the topic of informal caretakers, their great burden is God's unsolved question, but I cannot dispel it here, nor are the standards of municipal services. Jaanson said today that people with disabilities should come up with this subject themselves. - Have you come in a little? - No. After all, this has been a key issue all along! And how could municipalities create these standards? It's the Social Ministry's business. People with disabilities have already worked free nights and days in the summer. I would like to remind you once again that no reform agenda has been drawn up; there is no concept. It's all going to be today and we'll discuss it tomorrow. The draft laws have indeed been drawn up for a long time, but it still turns out that little has been done, because the previous government and previous ministers were unable to fix anything. Of course, we must not stop reading the second reading today, because this system is not going to work. The head of the unemployment fund, Meelis Paavel, has also said that without these social services it will not work. Really, these services are only a little bit and with a finger, we know that the money is 50 million. What, where and to whom will it last for five years? That's not enough! Pick up the number of municipalities, split it up! That's very little! In any case, the Centre Party Group proposes that this draft be suspended and we say that it cannot go forward in this form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U376	Thank you. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Margus Tsahkna! Just as it's customary, if you want, you can have three more minutes. Would you like some? Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U377	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear members of the Riigikogu, as well as people who follow this debate online! We actually have two drafts in the process. One is what is currently under discussion, i.e. a draft law amending the Social Welfare Act, the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and other laws. Maybe a lot of people don't understand what's behind this title. If we look at the whole issue of work capacity reform, it is precisely in this bill that there should be answers to all the questions that people with disabilities and organisations with special needs have asked. The work capacity reform that will be discussed in this Chamber as the next draft should be based on the draft that we are currently discussing. If we look at the role models of the work capacity reform, the Ministry has, for example, introduced 'practical systems from other countries', the Netherlands, Australia, Great Britain and some countries closer to us have adopted the same ideology. But it has been forgotten one 'pisiasi', namely that there is a functioning social welfare system in all these countries. All these countries have created prerequisites for the implementation of the labour capacity reform. So, what are these assumptions? These prerequisites are the resolution of obvious problems. These are all the problems that people with disabilities have referred to, and which are actually put together in one word: it is the fact that people with disabilities cannot get out of their homes. The current situation is that the reform of working capacity places the obligation on persons with disabilities to be active, to be included in the labour market, to be involved in active labour market measures. The disabled have not objected to this, and no party in this Chamber has argued against it either. The current social system has basically assigned people with disabilities to their homes. There has not been much support from the state so that they can move so that they can participate actively in society. Now we are putting this responsibility on them through the work capacity reform, and I think they might even be happy to be interested in them and to be able to go to work according to their abilities, to get out of the house. The same draft, which we are discussing now, does propose improvements to the current system, specifies the system of sharing aids and rehabilitation issues, but these services, which should be provided primarily by local authorities, are not listed here. The main proposals of disabled people were that we, at the level of the Riigikogu, lay down minimum standards for specific social welfare measures by law. The state has delegated the provision of social welfare services to municipalities. This regulation is general and, as we know, the possibilities and perhaps also the will of local governments are very different across Estonia. I think that these services are better accessible to people in Tallinn, Tartu and other major cities. With the work capacity reform, we impose on disabled people the obligation to actively use labour market measures, but across Estonia there are unsolicited opportunities for them to get out of their homes to get even into the unemployment fund for evaluation or work if they really have a job, for example, if an employer has created a job for them. That is why I regret that the draft is before us in this form. Indeed, I must admit that the Committee on Social Affairs has tried to change this, and these changes are also before you, but the basic problem is not solved by the draft law amending the Social Welfare Act and the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act. This key problem is the lack of access to these same services. The second point I want to make briefly is that the reform of working capacity imposes an additional obligation on people with special needs. He will be evaluated to obtain the information he needs to be rehabilitated in order to help him participate in society in order to help him work. At the same time, this draft, which we are discussing here today, will remain a separate system for assigning disability to the Social Insurance Board and for the rehabilitation organisation, which has so far been under very great criticism, no major changes will be made. This system will remain so-called social rehabilitation and occupational rehabilitation will be separate. One positive change is that the system of aids will be centralized nationally on a regional basis. This is a welcome step, but the whole system remains separate. Broadly speaking, it is quite difficult to understand whether the draft writers have been able to put themselves in the situation of the disabled person who has to go through the whole system in order to be able to respond to future active labour market measures so that he can receive support. I specifically mention the target of 15 000 new jobs to be created by 2020. 15,000 people with special needs should be able to work. At the same time, incentives for employers do not change significantly; they remain more or less the same as they are today. It is not certain that businesses will create more jobs, that they will be more interested in people with disabilities in the future, but that the obligation to act is imposed on people with disabilities. Finally, I would like to say that the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance also proposes to interrupt the second reading of the Social Welfare Act, the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and the Law amending other laws. We do not want to send a message that we are fundamentally opposed to this reform. We are not against this reform; we are in favour of achieving these objectives with two hands. It is precisely this law that could, in a better way, create the prerequisites for people with disabilities and people with special needs to be able to fulfil their obligations under the capacity for work reform. I call for common sense to prevail and for the second reading to be interrupted! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U378	Thank you. Good colleagues, no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. Let us begin the examination of the amendments. A total of 33 amendments have been received, all from the lead committee, so everything is fully taken into account. We will begin by reviewing them: Amendments 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23. For the 24th amendment, after the debate, the lead committee decided to take full account of it. Amendments 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32 and 33. Thank you. We have examined the amendments. The usual move should now be to conclude the second reading, as proposed by the commission to the House, but two statements have come from the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union and one from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. The content of the proposals is the same: the second reading of draft 693 should be discontinued. Both have been signed by the chairmen of the political groups. We need to vote on this proposal because of our own rules of procedure and our own rules of procedure. Let's start preparing the vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica to interrupt the second reading of draft 693. Please take a stand and vote. 30 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 49 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The second reading is closed and the seventh item is addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U379	Let's move on to item eight. The second reading of the draft Employment Capacity Allowance Act 678 initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Jüri Jaanson, Member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu Chair, please present!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U380	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Draft Employment Allowance Act 678 was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 2 June. and the first reading was completed on 18 June. At that time, the deadline for submitting amendments was 11 August. Within the deadline, 16 amendments were tabled, eight of which were tabled by the Centre Party Group and eight were proposed by the members of the Riigikogu Heljo Pikhof, Rein Aidma, Karel Rüütel and here. After the first reading of the draft Act, the Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft Employment Capacity Allowance Act at a total of 15 sessions, essentially throughout the summer and autumn. All the parties and target groups were involved in the discussions of the draft Employment Capacity Support Act, apart from the Estonian Association of Judges, Public Prosecutor's Office, Estonian Taxpayers' Association, Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund, Estonian Patients' Association, as well as the Estonian Trade Union Confederation. A public address to the Government of the Republic, the Riigikogu and the public of Estonia has also been submitted on the draft. In addition, the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People and the Estonian Trade Union Confederation sent a joint return. The Institute of Social Work at Tallinn University also sent an overview of the results of an international survey on the employment of people with mental disorders. I will take a closer look at the procedure. In the summer, on 15 and 16 July, meetings were held with interest groups. The Social Affairs Committee also examined the results of the studies and analyses of the Centre for Policy Studies in Praxis. Representatives of the Estonian Reuma Union, the Estonian Society of Multiplex Associations and the Estonian Association of People with Disabilities of Mobility took part in the meeting and presented their problems. Meetings were also held with representatives of the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People and employers. A month later, after the deadline for amendments fell on 25 August, the Committee on Social Affairs examined the current methodology for assessing incapacity for work and the changes to be made in the future. The Social Committee also looked at the planned methodology for assessing the ability to work. On 26 August, the meetings held with the complainants continued. All the meetings were attended as representatives of the initiators by the officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs, who provided further explanations and answered questions from the members of the Commission. Let me talk a little bit about the discussions with the parties and the proposals that have been put forward. One very important thing was that the interest groups wanted to raise the income limit, starting with a reduction in the capacity allowance for workers with partial or lack of working capacity. The Social Affairs Committee agreed with the interest groups and supported the proposal by both the Estonian Centre Party and the members of the aforementioned Riigikogu to raise the income limit to 30 days. The aid will therefore start to be reduced from EUR 960 per salary and the partial capacity to work will cease to be paid from EUR 1325 per salary at the current daily rate. I would point out that, according to the current daily rate, in the future, this amount will always be increased. A person with a lack of working capacity shall cease to receive the allowance for a salary of EUR 1600. Discussions also brought out the very strong desire of stakeholders to introduce a "one-door" system, so that all operations can be carried out in one institution, such as a declaration to assess working capacity and receive work capacity support, as well as the identification of disability and the determination of its severity. The principle is that the unemployment fund and the Social Insurance Board exchange data and people do not run from one place to another for no reason. In principle, this change was introduced: if a person turns to an unemployment fund to assess his or her working capacity, he or she can also apply for a disability check there and is already delivered to the Social Insurance Board by the unemployment fund. Stakeholders expressed concern that compliance with the activity requirements for disability benefit would lead to the running of disabled people and would be too difficult for them, as disabled people would not be able to move easily. The representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the unemployment fund confirmed that activity requirements can, inter alia, be met by telephone or electronic means. In addition, in order to alleviate the fears of stakeholders, the Social Committee decided to propose an amendment emphasising the role of the unemployment fund in the administrative procedure, i.e. the unemployment fund is obliged in every case where there is a risk of loss of work capacity benefit, to identify the circumstances in which a person does not comply with the activity requirements. The unemployment fund must certainly not be suspended until the circumstances have been clarified. The Estonian Chamber of Disabled People and the Estonian Trade Union Confederation pointed out that according to the draft, a person must have attended a doctor's appointment in the previous three months to assess his working ability. The Committee on Social Affairs agreed that this time was too short for a disabled person due to long queues with a doctor, a lack of mobility of a disabled person or a lack of ability to move around and other objective circumstances. Therefore, on the proposal of the members of the Riigikogu Heljo Pikhof, Rein Aidma, Karel Rüütli and Jüri Jaanson, this period was extended to six months. Discussions with the participation of many different stakeholders raised the question of how the assessment of working capacity will be carried out on the basis of a new methodology. I'm going to explain this right here. The first step is that a person goes to a family doctor or a specialist who describes his/her medical condition and inserts data into the health information system. The person must then submit an application to the unemployment fund for an assessment of his or her capacity to work. It shall complete a questionnaire on its operational capacity and shall initially assess its own capacity. If necessary, the case manager of the unemployment fund will interview him to complete the questionnaire. At the same time, I would stress that an application for a disability allowance can also be submitted, as it is the date on which the application is submitted that will be the date on which the capacity allowance will be paid. As a third step, the assessment of the ability to work is carried out by the health care provider. As a fourth step, a person gets a decision to assess his or her ability to work; he or she can have a full, partial or missing capacity. The decision is made by a specialist on the basis of the expert opinion of the health care provider on the assessment of the working capacity of the unemployment fund. These four steps need to be taken by a person, and his or her ability to work is then appreciated. However, as I pointed out in the debate on the draft law, the methodology for assessing the ability to work is still being tested in order to correct the details. After evaluation, the person is further dealt with by the case manager of the unemployment fund, who advises, coordinates and evaluates the person's need for employment services and rehabilitation. Criticism about the system of performance assessment has been done by the Estonian Association of Persons with reduced mobility. They consider that it is not justified that there are uniform grounds for assessing the ability of persons with disabilities and persons with illness to work; they consider that they should be different. But the Ministry of Social Affairs did not consider it justified to assess the working capacity of disabled and disabled persons on different grounds. When applying for an assessment of the ability to work, a person can make an individual assessment, but the general basis of the assessment must be uniform. Out of the proposals made by the stakeholders, compensation for the additional costs of assessing the ability to work was also included in the draft. If a person has to go to an expert doctor's appointment, he/she will therefore incur additional costs, such as the use of special transport, personal assistant or sign language interpreter, which will be reimbursed if the valuer of the unemployment fund is unable to assess the person himself and sends him/her to the health care provider. During the discussions, representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the unemployment fund introduced an employment programme for people with reduced working capacity and their employers, which will provide the target group with already existing labour market services, as well as completely new services, the details of which are currently being dealt with in the preparation for formulation and implementation. I will also talk a little bit about the amendments. The one-door system has already been discussed. The amendments focus on what has been said. Amendment 30 adds a letter to the means of service of the decision of the unemployment fund. It provides an opportunity to send administrative decisions to people other than other documents. Very many target groups have taken an interest in this. Amendment 32, initiated by the aforementioned members of the Riigikogu, stresses once again the importance of identifying the circumstances when the payment of the capacity allowance is suspended. In particular, according to the draft Employment and Health Insurance Act, the unemployment fund has the right to suspend the payment of disability benefit for 10 days if the beneficiary does not come to the unemployment fund for the first time without a valid reason, refuses to comply with the job search plan or does not accept a suitable job. The unemployment fund has the right to stop paying the disability allowance if the person who is registered as unemployed with partial employment capacity ceases to be registered or does not come to the unemployment fund for at least a third time without good reason at the time he or she is assigned. It is very important to stress that the amendment requires the unemployment fund to clarify the circumstances of each particular case and that it is only for a very good reason that it is possible to withdraw the disability allowance. Some of the amendments delayed the implementation of the employment capacity reform by half a year, until 1 January 2016. There was also much talk about employing thousands of people in the public sector, with which the public sector would set an example for the private sector. Part of the amendments included linguistic and regulatory changes. I will now pass on the procedural decisions and proposals of the commission. The Social Affairs Committee decided at its meeting on 6 November to send the draft to second reading in the Riigikogu plenary session by 12 November and proposed that the second reading be completed. The draft was still on the agenda of the Social Committee on 10 November when the second reading procedural documents were approved. Jüri Jaanson, member of the Social Affairs Committee, was appointed rapporteur for the commission. It was a brief review. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U381	Good waitress, thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Kadri Simson.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U382	Thank you. Dear Jüri Jaanson! A person with partial work capacity, such as a person with reduced mobility, may not find a new job near home. He therefore needs transport that takes into account his needs to get to work. One amendment from the Centre Party provided for such expenses to be reimbursed to persons with disabilities, but the Commission's majority did not support this proposal. A situation arises where a person living in a country needs to spend most of his salary on transport to get to work. What solution do you see?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U383	Thank you for your question. Indeed, one of the important aspects of getting a part-time employee to work is that he has the opportunity to use a public transport vehicle, his own vehicle, the employer's vehicle, or to use any other option. For the capacity of municipal support services, EUR 50 million has been earmarked for financing the reform, including EUR 12 million for financing the transport service. I cannot quite agree with your argument, Mr Simson, that we did not accept this amendment in substance, because in fact this amendment received a letter. I can't find this place right now, but it was written in a way that if a person is unable to use a public car or his car because of objective circumstances, the local government, in cooperation with the unemployment fund, offers him a support service to get to work.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U384	Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U385	Thank you very much. Honourable waitress! Are there impact assessments to confirm that the objectives set by the proposed measures can be achieved promptly, efficiently and proportionally? If not, are such impact assessments planned?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U386	Thank you for your question. There have been a number of impact analyses and contingency analyses of both the current system of disability pensions and the future work capacity reform. As I pointed out here, one of the main impact analyses was carried out by Praxis; they have also been commissioned by the Ministry of Social Affairs. These were the basis for building up the Employment Capacity Support Act. I wouldn't suspect that the law on disability benefits was based on sand or empty spaces.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U387	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U388	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! One of the fundamental foundations of the whole reform is that people who have been at home for a long time should return to the labour market. Many of them need retraining. What tools and who would organise so much training for people who may not have a better education than basic education?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U389	Thank you for your question. The unemployment fund's active labour market services, which we have planned in the budget, have a total of EUR 142 million, including the use of all kinds of retraining opportunities and, if the person so wishes, the modernisation of his or her professional skills and everything involved. Currently, EUR 142 million have been earmarked for this.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U390	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U391	Thank you. Good performer! The research firm Saar Poll has carried out a very thorough study and impact analysis of the work capacity reform. They clearly said that this reform would not actually improve the situation, but would increase the poverty of people, and that health problems would therefore increase. What do you think of this assessment?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U392	Thank you for your question. The way we interpret them is also very important for all kinds of research. If you interpret the results of the study in such a way that the reform increases human poverty and therefore increases health problems, I disagree. Work capacity reform will certainly not increase people's poverty. I myself think that this Saar Poll study, the results of which we have listened to in the Committee on Social Affairs session, is very grateful. This pointed to misplaced situations. But I certainly do not agree that it can be taken so one-sidedly that there will be an increase in the number of people with health impairment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U393	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U394	Thank you. Good colleague! In the process of assessing the ability to work, the applicant needs to visit a family doctor only once every six months before submitting the application. I have a feeling that paperwork will play a more role here, not participation in the human process. Am I wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U395	Thank you for your question. But I must admit that I did not fully understand the substance of the question. You can visit a family doctor as much as you need and want. For the assessment of work ability, there is a requirement that a family doctor or a specialist should have been contacted within six months before the application for an assessment of work ability was submitted.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U396	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U397	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! My question is about resources. At present, external resources are planned for these years at nearly €360 million. After that, is there double resources in the state budget to help people, or does everyone have to do it on their own?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U398	I would first like to point out that the total cost of the reform itself is EUR 304 million, plus EUR 50 million from the European Social Fund for support services specifically for employment. This amount, in turn, includes the so-called'mandatory co-financing'. So the money from Europe is actually smaller. As regards the provision of services after 2020, we have agreed that the principles of public funding will be developed in more detail by the next government. At present, the National Audit Office has also said that we have no access to reform. If we do not reform, the increase in social costs caused by reduced capacity for work will become very high, so we must reform anyway. It is clear that society cannot escape social costs; these funds must be found in any case. The principles of how to do this more accurately will be developed by the next government. That's the deal.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U399	Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U400	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The state and municipalities are unable to provide sufficient social welfare services to people with special needs. All organisations of disabled people have said that the work capacity reform will not work without real services, which would help to make the lives of disabled people more normal and help them to move to the labour market, to move in the first place or to interact with society. Identify some of the measures that the work capacity reform offers to enable people with special needs to interact better with society.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U401	Thank you for your question. First of all, I would point out that social welfare services are provided in society on the principle of subsidiarity. In particular, they are provided by the local government, which is done where a person who needs help or who has partial working capacity lives. Additional support services or social welfare services in terms of labour capacity reform were actually the subject of the previous draft. These services, which are added to help people work, are mainly provided by the unemployment fund. Some of them, such as needs-based transport services, are provided by the unemployment fund in cooperation with municipalities. These services include helping a person in an interview with an unemployment fund that assesses how a person can cope or wage support for the employer. The point is that if a person with partial work capacity goes to work, he or she needs time to adapt to the working environment, and in order to ensure that the employer does not suffer much harm during this period, he or she will receive a salary allowance, i.e. some part of the money paid to the employee comes from the unemployment fund. You can also point out how to work with a support person. This service is provided on a case-by-case basis to up to 1000 unemployed people with partial work capacity who can handle the job with the support of a support person. As I mentioned earlier, labour market services are in fact still being refined and developed, but, in principle, it is not so much the labour market service itself but the individual approach that matters here. A person must receive the service he needs most. It can also be seen as adapting these services to people.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U402	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U403	Thank you. My question is also about Amendment 24, which was made by the Estonian Central Party Group and which was ignored by the Commission. This amendment talks about compensating additional work-related costs, such as transport compensation. You answered Kadri Simson's question that this proposal has been taken into account in substance and that it will be the cost of the local government in the future; these additional expenses will be reimbursed by the municipality in cooperation with the unemployment fund. But you failed to explain why the Commission did not agree that, in future, this could be done in accordance with our proposal for an unemployment fund. This problem is really solved and expenses are compensated, but why can't it be done by an unemployment fund?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U404	Thank you for your question. Transport is a special case, transport arrangements we've already talked about. However, the main reason why a particular point was not taken into account is in the sentence that the unemployment fund also reimburses the additional costs of working. In fact, it is possible for a person to apply for compensation for these additional costs within the framework of the Social Benefits Act for Persons with Disabilities. This is the only reason why this proposal was not supported. This reason is not at all substantive, but simply that a person is already able to apply for this support.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U405	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U406	Thank you. Good waitress! I will continue on the same subject as the previous questioners. The capacity of local authorities is known to be very different. There are 40 municipalities in Estonia where less than 1000 people live. More than half of Estonia's municipalities have fewer than 2000 inhabitants. You are now saying that the local government will have the capacity it has not had so far and will be able to provide support services for the person, including support services for getting to work. Do you really believe that Tudulinna or Torgu, for example, is capable of doing so?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U407	Thank you for your question. As I know, the subject of local government reform is very close to your heart. I think we all agree that this reform should take some form. It is a question of approach. Too many small local authorities are unable to carry out the tasks assigned to them by the Constitution. As regards support for local authorities, this is currently EUR 50 million from the European Social Fund, which is allocated on the basis of the capacity of local authorities and, once again, on the basis of case-specificity. I would like to add that one of the very important areas of pain that local authorities currently have to deal with is aid. The administration of aids is brought under the Social Insurance Board by amendments to the Social Welfare Act and the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act. So, at least, the capacity to distribute aid should be significantly improved and the situation should become more equal for people. As far as the ability to work is concerned, individual cases will be identified after evaluation. It will then also be clear which municipalities are to be supported in specific cases.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U408	Aivar Chef.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U409	Good manager! Good waitress! I read § 7 'Evaluation of the ability to work'. If you have so far dealt with the assessment of whether or not a person has a capacity to work, health care professionals, according to the new law, specialized workers will be employed in the unemployment fund with the appropriate qualifications. Can you tell me what it will do better if it is done through the unemployment fund and how many of these specialized workers will be recruited into the unemployment fund?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U410	Thank you for your question. I had previously explained the steps taken to assess the ability to work that a person with partial work ability or health impairment needs to undergo in order to have his or her working capacity assessed at the unemployment fund. These include a visit to the health care provider, as the first step is to take the basic data from the family doctor. One step is that a person appreciates his own ability. If the specialized valuer of the unemployment fund and the job seeker arrive at a common conclusion on the condition of the job seeker, it is not necessary to send the person to the health care provider's expert for expert advice. In such a case, the capacity to work is indeed assessed by the specialized employee of the unemployment fund. But how much better is that? I believe that there should be a clear presumption that the new assessment system is better, given that, either way, the evaluation is diverse and there is always an opportunity to turn to the healthcare provider for final expert advice.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U411	Lauri Laasi.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U412	Thank you. Honourable waitress! There are very different quality trainers in adult education. Is the Commission really convinced that people with disabilities can be trained according to the needs of the labour market?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U413	Thank you, good questioner! I didn't exactly understand the point of the question. Did you mean that people with disabilities or special needs will be trained for the labour market or for the case manager of the unemployment fund? I didn't know which one you were thinking about. But I assume you meant the open labour market. Can disabled people be trained according to the needs of the labour market? I'm just saying it has to be. The Unemployment Insurance Fund must adapt to this obligation and they have certainly taken this into account. I would also like to add that the representative of the unemployment fund spoke about this about a year and a half ago during the debate on a crucial national issue. The Unemployment Insurance Fund has also explained to the Social Affairs Committee what they have done in this area in recent years and what they are planning to do. While I am convinced that, when it comes to individual parts of the model of work capacity reform, the competence, skills and willingness of the unemployment fund is one of the strongest aspects of this reform. I have that conviction.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U414	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U415	I'd like to speak a little more calmly!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U416	Thank you. Dear waitress, You once mentioned the caretakers. Inherited caretakers are now getting...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U417	... a very small grant of €25.19. Will this support be withdrawn during this reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U418	Thanks for the question, but I didn't understand it. Will their monthly care allowance be withdrawn from their carers? Not really.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U419	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U420	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, It is often the opinion that reform is needed to take advantage of EUR 300 million, like European money that has fallen from the sky. If it were not for this European money, do you think we would launch this reform? If so, what means? Where can we find these 300 million euros in the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U421	Thank you for your question. The question was two-part. First of all, if we did not have European money, would we do this reform? I'm saying we would, because sooner or later we'll be cornered. We all understand that the system of disability pensions is already overly costly for the state, but the needs of the target group have not been met either. To conclude on the first issue, the National Audit Office has also drawn attention to this. Last week, when there was a debate on a crucial national issue, we had a presentation by the National Audit Office on the table, which made clear exactly the same question that you asked us whether we would reform even if we did not have European money. The answer was yes, we would, because we have nowhere to go. But the other part of the question was, what kind of money would we do that with? I'd say it's coming out of today's subject. There is no point in asking hypothetical questions right now. We have European money to reform the system of disability pensions and we can use it. However, when we talk about finding money from the state budget, it is, after all, a matter of discussion of the state budget. This issue should be discussed when the state budget is being made, not in the context of the labour capacity reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U422	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U423	Good manager! Good waitress! I come back to my last question. The unemployment fund employs specialised staff with appropriate qualifications. I wonder what qualifications these workers must have and how many such specialists will hire an unemployment fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U424	Thank you for your question. First of all, we were talking about about 500 specialized case managers being hired. What qualifications they must meet is set. It must be social workers with higher education. In each case, up to three specialised staff are involved and I will say once again that an expert from the health care provider will also be involved in the evaluation if necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U425	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U426	Thank you. The current practice of the Unemployment Insurance Fund has shown that people who have registered as unemployed often fall out of the unemployment fund's mental letter without having found a job. Conditions have simply been too complicated and no work has been found. What gives a disabled person a guarantee that what has happened to a fully working person will not happen to him?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U427	Thank you for your question. Indeed, there is always this risk, but I think that this question should actually be answered by the representative of the unemployment fund. I would certainly like to add that this situation should be avoided by additional labour market measures for people with partial working capacity, plus an individual approach to each person as a fundamental basis for the reform of working capacity. It is not the case that a person is being pushed into a specific frame, but vice versa, first of all it is made clear what a person is capable of, what he wants, and what his qualifications are. The active measures to be taken, including when finding a job, are based on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U428	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U429	Excuse me, Vice President of the Riigikogu! Well, you've got a future ahead of you. Good colleague Jüri! The expected output of the employment capacity reform is that the private sector will create jobs. What has so far prevented the private sector from creating jobs and what will force the private sector to create jobs after the reform enters into force?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U430	We certainly welcome the President of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U431	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U432	Thank you for your question. Work capacity reform does not necessarily require job creation in the private sector. Life goes on the way it has so far. When it comes to creating something, it is more of a protected job that is created for one particular group of people with partial or lack of working capacity. What would force the private sector to create these jobs? The answer is, there's nothing to force. It is not about creating jobs, it is about employing people. It is a question of equal opportunities for people with partial employment capacity to apply for jobs in the open labour market, whether in the public or private sector. From an economic point of view, we are also not talking about job creation, but rather about the fact that the number of people in employment in the near future will quite certainly decrease, as the number of inhabitants will decrease. It also forces employers to select and search for employees better. I also see a motivation here to help employers bring people with partial work capacity closer together.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U433	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U434	Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U435	Thank you. Dear waitress, Work capacity reform is essentially the same as registering a disabled person as unemployed. This means that a person must continue to go to the unemployment fund to communicate with an employee there. You just described the tools you need specifically. Three more people can be added here to help you enter or queue this text. Do you really think that the employees of the unemployment fund are now ready to receive these people and help them communicate, until they use sign language?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U436	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! I will continue with the question that I tabled during the debate on the previous draft. I asked you to describe what was going to change. You answered in general. If possible, perhaps you can describe, in your personal example, the changes that this reform entails, for example, for you personally, when you are re-elected here or when you start working in another place. What are these changes compared to today?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U437	Good questioner, thank you for your interest in my humble personality! When it comes to my own personal experience, even working right here in the Riigikogu, it really is extremely important to me that these tools help me to hear and understand what I am talking about. One tool is the same screen next to the remote, because I need a combination of two things to understand. First, I need to hear the sound, and second, I need to get a chance to read the lips. Since this is far from difficult to do, we are now using the transcription of the text. In simple cases, I also use the little walkie-talkie up here, I have the same personalized thing that sends me the hearing aid so I can understand better. I have to say that it works in part because, as I said, I have to be able to read lips. I cannot fully understand what is said in the Chamber, for example, when questions are asked. So what do I need in the end? Screen, walkie-talkie, personal walkie-talkie and, of course, good hearing aids. Of course, in my life, I've reached the point where I've got my hearing aids and everything, like the remote control, I've got myself. But as far as the additional tools are concerned, I am, of course, very grateful to the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, who has provided me with aids, including, for example, the ampling system with microphones in the committee and in the group. These are concrete and simple tools so that I can manage here in the Riigikogu. I also need these tools to answer your questions. In conclusion, it can be assessed as a 'case-by-case approach': I knew what I needed, I submitted specific requests to the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, and together we solved these problems. The same should be done for all persons with partial capacity to work... Now I used that phrase wrong, I don't think I'm a part-time person, maybe you think I am, but I don't think so. An individual or case-by-case approach is the key to helping people with special needs and health impairment to work. That's the thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U438	Thank you for your question. As far as your particular question is concerned, I see only one nice woman who enters the text, not three, next to it. Your assumption is that the work ability reform will be equivalent to registering a disabled person essentially as unemployed. I'm sure it doesn't. That's the wrong argument. Work capacity reform is equivalent to helping a person to work, helping a person to compete on the labour market as much as possible with ordinary people in order to deal with them as equally as possible. As for my subjective opinion on the capacity of the unemployment fund, yes, I think that the unemployment fund is capable of serving all these people because it has been taken into account. Work capacity reform takes place in stages, and in the early months, or even half a year, there may be some overload. But in the short term, given the average of the year, the unemployment fund should be able to serve all these jobseekers.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U439	Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U440	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Currently, in most municipalities, social workers with higher education have either a minimum wage or a little over it. What will be the remuneration of 500 professionals employed in the unemployment fund in the future? How many disabled people are employed as a result of this work and how much are they paid?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U441	Thank you for your question. You asked me what the average salary of these 500 employees should be. This salary will develop in the market and its expected size could certainly be told by the unemployment fund. That is not our subject today. However, as regards how many people with disabilities are employed as a result of their work, the objectives are clear: in six years, 10,000 to 15,000 people must be employed, including the public sector setting an example by employing 1 000 people. These are specific things.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U442	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U443	Thank you. Dear waitress, They're always talking about 15,000 people to work. Where is this figure taken from? Is this a number taken from the ceiling, or has some research and analysis been carried out, and has anyone come to conclusions? If so, is it a sufficiently competent body, such as an institute or a research team? Who did this? Who concluded that 15,000 were right?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U444	Thank you for your question. On the same subject, I spoke about answering questions about the previous draft law. This is not so much the subject of research as the subject of statistics. The statistics of the Unemployment Insurance Fund and the Ministry of Social Affairs have worked through this thoroughly. In general, the situation is that there are up to 100000 unemployed pensioners in Estonia who are between 15 and 64 years old and less than 40,000 of whom, or about 40%, have been employed. Presumably, about one third of pensioners receive the status of lack of capacity for work, i.e. they are not subject to activity. They're not what we're counting on here. However, between this third of people with no working capacity and the 40,000 employed, there are 20,000 to 25,000 people, who have been considered in the course of the work capacity reform in the sense that 10,000 to 15 000 people could be successfully included in the open labour market over the next six years. This is the starting point for the reform. These people would be additional workers for employers. Indeed, the educational gap between unemployed people, especially older people, and those with partial employment capacity, is a very serious problem. There is, in fact, a lot of work to be done here and we must continue to pursue the reform consistently.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U445	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U446	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, § 68 of the draft act, "Adjustment of the President of the Republic Act', states that if the President is identified as having partial or no working capacity during his term of office, his occupational pension will be increased by 25%. Was it discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs that this could also be the case for the Prime Minister and the Chairman of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U447	Thank you for your question. The short and simple answer is that it was not discussed. But there is a very simple technical reason why the President of the Republic has changed the law. At the moment, there has been talk about disability pension, namely, if the President of the Republic is found to be unable to work, his or her incapacity rate will be determined and he or she will receive a disability pension. This wording had to be changed as it would be a partial or no capacity to work in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U448	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U449	Thank you. The Estonian labour market lacks working hands. This reform is intended to employ 500 or more people with specific qualifications in the unemployment fund. Where do these people come from, and are we convinced that there is no way to deal with fewer workers?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U450	Thank you for your question. We are actually talking about a little less than 500 people, but the right addressee of this question is actually the unemployment fund, which has made calculations of how they can cope with the extra burden. They think they should hire 480 new people. I don't have any information here about how that figure was reached. But when it comes to where these people are found, I think that every employer has some kind of system in place, how he finds employees, whether he cooperates with a job search company, or whether he has some internal resources. In this respect, the question should be answered by the unemployment fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U451	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U452	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! On my question, I will follow from one of your previous responses that if people with disabilities enter the labour market, employment will fall. I promise to speculate on the data that has sounded during the proceedings. You said that 40,000 people with disabilities can enter the labour market. They require a special job creation of up to 15000 jobs, leaving 25,000 (40 to 15 = 25). Let's put a plus, our unemployment is going to increase by at least a quarter. Maybe I didn't get you right, but if you play with numbers, can you comment?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U453	Thank you for your question. First of all, I would point out that if people with special needs and partial employment capacity enter the labour market, this is certainly not linked to the fall in employment. I do not know where this speculation has been taken that 40,000 people can enter the labour market. 40,000 of whom? What's it meant to be? I don't quite understand your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U454	I'm asking you to give Eldar Efendiev a microphone to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U455	You spoke of 100,000 people with disabilities, 40,000 of whom, according to your calculations, are able to enter the labour market.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U456	That's not what I was talking about. I was talking about the fact that, according to statistics, there are currently about 100,000 unemployed people in Estonia, i.e. 15 to 64 years old, who are unemployed and 40,000 of them are employed, i.e. working somewhere. That's what I said. Everything else was a completely different calculation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U457	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U458	Thank you, Vice President of the Riigikogu. Dear waitress, We disagree on whether the country can create new jobs or not. But do any rules prohibit some of this EUR 354 million from spending on new jobs?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U459	Thank you for your question. I do not think we will disagree on this point as to whether or not the country can create jobs. I'm sure he can if he wants. Rather, we disagree on whether it should do so in an artificial way and create jobs for the creation of jobs itself, or whether the jobs should still be designed to increase the wealth of the state. Are there any rules prohibiting a certain part of this EUR 354 million from being spent I realized that half of this amount was meant for new jobs? I don't think there are any rules right now. But I also think that if we really spend half of this amount on creating new jobs, this reform will not be very sustainable, because we will not be able to sustain these jobs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U460	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U461	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good performer! You have now praised this reform for a long time, and I believe the words you are telling us here. But if this reform is so good and starts to protect people well, why are there so many protests against this law and reform? Why have disabled people repeatedly come to the streets to process against your reform? Why is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U462	Thank you for your question. I'm glad you believe what I say. But then you should also believe that I don't approve of reform, in the sense that I don't hack it. I am certainly defending this reform, but I stress once again that this is a novelty, we are doing a unique thing, and we all want to do it successfully, so that people can be involved in the best way possible. You asked why so many people protest against this reform. I think the answer lies primarily in what I have already said. We do a novelty, and it's perfectly natural that people have fear. How to eliminate this fear once and for all, I don't know. Maybe we haven't convinced them enough, maybe there's something missing. I'm not saying we've done the perfect job of doing this. But I'm saying we've done a lot of work, I'm saying we've tried. The Committee on Social Affairs, which has held 21 meetings on draft laws on labour capacity reform, met with the parties, discussed and listened to the proposals and fought with the Ministry of Finance, has made every effort to ensure that, according to its understanding, the work capacity reform is best implemented. I don't know, maybe it wasn't enough for these people. But you can't jump over your shadow. I think you'll agree with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U463	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U464	Thank you. Honorable defender of the bill! The situation we are trying to resolve today has been caused by the decisions made by Minister Nestor when a large number of unemployed people were turned into inability by law. They started receiving benefits and are now receiving pensions. This system is too much for us. So the people with the trees got caught in the cogs. Now, in a public financial sense, efforts are being made to improve the situation, and this is commendable in every respect. Sadly, though, people with disabilities are basically once again losing out. The system is neither viable nor sustainable for taxpayers after the reform. Is that so? What's your assessment?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U465	Thank you, good questioner! I do not have much point in answering this question, because the question itself was a prerequisite. This assumption is that people with disabilities or special needs will in any case lose out. What am I gonna say? Your position seems to be iron-proof. You've decided so, and so it will be, so it was in Nestor's time, and it is now. But what I'm saying is that during Minister Nestor's time, the number of inability pensioners was considerably lower than today. The problem was expected to be solved precisely by assigning percentage loss of work capacity to people, receiving a percentage of benefits and coping with their lives. The fact that there has been an explosion in the number of inability pensioners in recent years was not predictable during Minister Nestor's time. Secondly, I would add that, yes, a major error in the previous work capacity reform was indeed that it did not focus on involving people in society. But at the time, I believe, there were also many other concerns and problems before the Estonian state. I believe that at that time, too, people tried to reform the system to the best of their wishes. I think there are certainly many who say that it was done in the best way in those circumstances.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U466	Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U467	Thank you. Dear waitress, A prisoner who works in prison and earns extra money for daily living, who has a shelter and who gets to eat several times a day pays less taxes than people with disabilities who start working. Neither does the state provide food on the table or shelter for people with disabilities. Do you consider this to be a normal situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U468	Thank you for your question. I consider this a very unfortunate comparison. Compare the prisoner to a person with special needs! Do you even think about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U469	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U470	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! Is the surge in the number of pensioners in incapacity for work linked to unemployment? Do you share my view that if there were a job, people with partial employment capacity would be on the labour market?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U471	Thank you for your question. Indeed, various studies and analyses have shown that there is a quite concrete and direct link between the increase in incapacity for work and the rise in poverty or, say, unemployment around the world. There are a number of factors, including the fact that systems for assessing performance are probably not quite objective. Poverty is a direct cause of loss of ability to work, because people are not always able to take care of their health in this situation, but I would say that at least the Estonian health care system is quite good and if a person takes care of himself, he should remain healthy. But to this claim that if there was a job, people with partial employment capacity would be on the labour market, I would not be able to answer that much. I think that, if there were a job, it would still be the ordinary people in the labour market who are unemployed and looking for a job. I would like to emphasise once again that the aim of the reform is to help people with partial employment capacity equal to ordinary people into the labour market and, therefore, to jobs. The current system does not allow for additional labour market measures or additional measures by municipalities to help people work. The current system does not allow people to reach a job or find a suitable job. I cannot pass or go beyond one of the fundamentals of the current reform, an individual case order, which seeks to make a person's ability in the labour market as great as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U472	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U473	Thank you. Honourable performer! It seems to me that you are more or less convinced that the work capacity reform will succeed. But I have a question. We have been doing pension reform in Estonia for 23 years. The result is one of the worst, if not the worst, pensions in Europe. We've been reforming the hospital since 2001. The result is almost a failure, as treatment queues increase every year. Where do you get the assurance that this reform should succeed the Estonian Government?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U474	Thank you for your question. I am actually convinced, not more or less convinced, but quite convinced that the work capacity reform will succeed. We have worked hard to achieve this, and when the opportunity is given, we will continue to do so. When we talk about pensions, I think it is extremely important that pensions are and remain and are growing stable. But linking these two issues, linking pensions to the success of the work capacity reform, is perhaps a little arbitrary. At the same time, I believe that pensions must grow on the basis of the ability of society or the taxpayer to support the country. There must be no volatility in the growth of pensions; pensions must be stable. This principle has, in my opinion, been followed by the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U475	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U476	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, It is known that one of the biggest costs of this law will be the assessment of working capacity, which can absorb EUR 15 million per year. While we were talking about a few tens of euros in the case, we have already talked about 270 euros later. What results have been obtained from testing the assessment methodology, if any? Have there been any further increases in evaluation costs in the meantime?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U477	Thank you for your question. I don't know where this 270 euro comes from, but there's material here for the evaluation. According to the current estimate of the cost of the capacity reform, the cost of the document based assessment of working capacity has been calculated at EUR 51.3 and for the visit based assessment at EUR 94.03. Against this background, it is now believed that around 20% of the evaluations will be carried out on a visit basis. So the total value of the external evaluation is not EUR 15 million, but EUR 18,3 million. This is the current cost plan for the work capacity reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U478	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U479	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good colleague Jüri! The reform provides that it will not be the specialists of the Social Insurance Board, who are on the payroll of the state and who will have decades of competence here, but will be ordered from companies that are involved in occupational health care and who do not know anything about the expertise, but will still ask for money for it. What's good about this change?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U480	I understand Urbo Vaarmann has a procedural question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U481	Thank you for your question. In the question, there was a presumption that companies involved in health care knew nothing about the expertise. In such a case, I cannot say more than that I very much hope that the unemployment fund will become an additional expert to send people on a need-based basis to healthcare providers who are able to carry out very high quality expertise.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U482	Would it be possible to read my question again, because it seems that the answer did not understand my question. We don't see what goes down there.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U483	Perhaps the most sensible thing is for Urbo Vaarmann to ask some of his groupmates to repeat the question, so we will not break the Rules of Procedure either. Urbo Vaarmann.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U484	I repeat, we do not see the question to be answered. On my question, it was very clear that what was written down, and what I asked for, were two different things.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U485	I propose once again to Mr Vaarmanni that he speak to one of his groupmates, who may ask the question again. Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U486	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! You have talked for a long time today about the reform of the capacity for work. Consequently, I have a question as to why you personally support this reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U487	Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U488	Thank you for your question. The simplest answer is that I know what the lives of people with special needs are now, and I believe that this reform will make the lives of people with special needs and partial working capacity more open and better in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U489	Thank you very much. Honourable waitress! What do you think about standardising support services? The problem now is that companies offer services of very different quality to people with disabilities, and sometimes prices are unfair or questionable. How should services be standardised?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U490	Thank you for your question. What do I think? There was a little talk about this during the discussion of the previous draft law. But I repeat that flexibility is one of the starting points for the work capacity reform. In fact, any person with partial employment capacity should receive a support service that is specifically necessary for him or her. This means flexible adaptation of support services to one person or another. Therefore, I do not consider it very right to create any very strict or standardised framework for support services. However, if, by standardisation, we mean quality requirements, that the service must be of high quality, then here I fully agree with you. I myself have not been in contact with quality services, but if there are, this quality must be improved. Here, I believe that it is important for rural governments, which have a responsibility to supervise local governments, to play a role. This is one way of putting pressure on the municipality to provide a high-quality service. But surely we must also talk here about the fact that if an organisation for persons with disabilities or special needs, such as an organisation for persons with specific disabilities, considers that the service provided needs to be set up in some part or set up some kind of base, it should present a proposal with views that need to be improved specifically. I think it can be solved by a decree of the Government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U491	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U492	Thank you. Honourable waitress! The reform is intended to be financed initially from euro money. European money is intended to change the system, but not to cover fixed costs later. The National Audit Office's enquiries have been answered that this funding remains the responsibility of the next government. Are we really launching a reform whose sources of financing for fixed costs are unknown?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U493	Thank you for your question. I am firmly of the opinion, sharing the opinion of the National Audit Office, that even if there were no possibility of euro financing, we would have to implement this reform and we would find these instruments either way. The question is whether we should now, before the end of the euro financing in 2020, provide in detail for the state budget where this money will come from. We discussed this topic among ourselves in the Social Affairs Committee and we, like the National Audit Office, came to the conclusion that the detailed establishment of this funding is basically left to the next government.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U494	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U495	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! It was my wish to continue the conversation with you on the subject of adult education, but that I promised my groupmate, Urbo Vaarmann, to help, then I will put a rewording of his question. Urbo Vaarmann wanted to be more specific. When an employer takes a prisoner, he does not pay taxes for him. Do you consider such tax incentives for people with special needs to be right in the course of this reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U496	Thank you for your question. I didn't quite understand the question. When an employer takes a prisoner, he does not pay taxes for him. What kind of taxes are you talking about? Secondly, do I consider it appropriate to apply such tax incentives to people with special needs? I don't know who they're expanding to. When we talk about tax incentives for people with special needs, the employer is entitled to a minimum refund of social tax from the state. It is a very specific tax credit, but I have to admit that I am not familiar with the taxes paid by the prisoner and the benefits that are possible there.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U497	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U498	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, My question concerns § 18 of this bill, which talks about the grounds for suspending the payment of part-time work capacity benefit for an unemployed person and, later on, about disputes on this subject. For example, one of the grounds for suspension is that the unemployed person, for no good reason, does not come to the unemployment fund or does not accept the job offered at the time he is given. My question is who appreciates this compelling reason. It says here that disputes will be settled at the unemployment fund. Is it correct that the decision maker, the one who stops the payout, will resolve these disputes later?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U499	Thank you for your question. First of all, the decision to suspend payment is taken in two levels, as has been explained to us. First of all, the case manager fixes the facts. Secondly, the case manager must certainly come to an understanding of why this has happened, why these reasons have occurred. If there are no valid reasons, the special Council of the unemployment fund will assess the circumstances and decide whether or not to suspend the payment of the disability allowance. The question, however, is, above all, whether a person really had good reason to break the rules, if he did not come to the unemployment fund in time, did not accept the job offered, or did not comply with the requirements of activity in any other way. In addition, it can be said that this process is personal, a decision is made personally on the basis of these reasons. This is different from the rules on ordinary people, as they automatically lose unemployment benefit because of their non-compliance with the rules.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U500	There are no more questions. Thank you, Jüri Jaanson! I'm opening negotiations. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U501	Ladies and gentlemen, Above all, let me pay tribute to the Commission's waitress, Jüri Jaanson, who stood here bravely for four hours. It would have had the opportunity to answer four of the five questions that the Commission had not discussed and to conclude. We've seen this behavior. In my opinion, the manhood is also demonstrated by the fact that Jüri has now appeared, but in the meantime no one in the coalition hall was present at all for a long time, they went away badly, and they did not support their reform morally. Now let's get down to business. Colleagues! The Cohabitation Act, the Child Protection Act and now this Employment Capacity Allowance Act are constantly coming here, and we are told that they are, in a sense, guardian angels that fly out of this hall to help the Estonian people. Actually, we're gonna let Frankensteine out this door, but he's armed to the teeth. It's completely impossible what's going on lately! In connection with this reform, I believe a number of things. I believe that the frivolous European Union really will give the Estonian state 300 million euros for this reform. I believe this money will be wasted. There is a particular economic interest here. I think that at least half of this money will eventually reach the state budget through direct and indirect taxes, and that is very pleasant for the government. This is one plus, which comes from the money that can be recovered from the European Union. The second thing I believe is that 500 people are hired. After all, it is clear that at first they do not have to have any qualifications at all, but they will later acquire it. Imagine the great opportunity that coalition parties have in theory and certainly in practice. 500 of their own people, those who are now dating and asking how so, their party is in the government, but he is still unemployed, get a job and pay. 500 people are hired! Politically, this is very important. Now I'm talking about 15,000 people with part-time work capacity. I had the opportunity last week to talk about this reform in several places. The first conversation took place in kindergarten. I asked the manager if he would take a person with limited employment. He said that he would, first of all, if he were to be paid for all the reorganisations needed to be made in the house; second, if such a payroll was given, that if this person became ill much more likely to happen than with other workers, then there would be a financial opportunity to replace him with another person; third, if this person needed help to work, so that he could also find a helper. I mean, this manager doesn't mind the idea. But can you find the money? The local government is not likely to find this kind of money in Estonia at the moment. I've spoken to two entrepreneurs. It was more or less the same. Would they hire someone like that? Same thing. If this person has reduced mobility, but the Commission says that he can, for example, work on a work bench, it is necessary to ensure that he has access to the workplace, the lighting, all the support he has to hold onto, the health protection requirements that everyone needs to meet. But the story may end when a person gets sick and stops working, and someone else takes his place who has a very different disability and needs other conditions. If it's beaten up, says the entrepreneur, and paid for, he'll do it. But think also of the difficult times we live in. Every entrepreneur says he keeps his company alive with his last strength. Let's take a closer look at the 15,000 people, even though there are different figures. I will give an example of my home town, where about 5% of the Estonian population lives. That means that, statistically, every 20 people in these 15,000 should get jobs in my hometown of Narva. 750 people! Are you kidding me? You can't even imagine what to talk about. But this is a city with roads, public transportation, all the possibilities available. But what are you still doing in the countryside? A lot of people out there have limited capacity for work. In some villages there's a sawmill and a small store, all people working on their property. Who's gonna hire them? Or are you going to bring people from all over Estonia to Tallinn? It's all unthinkable. If you ask a specific question, there will be no answer. This is what the Auditor General is talking about. Before you climb a mountain, think about how to get down there. Why do we start a reform if we don't know how we're going to implement it? It has not been analysed how it is going and what result we expect. The week before last, the Narva Invalidity Associations met with local authorities. The point is that a year ago, before the elections, we signed an agreement with them in which we made very specific promises. I was at this meeting for the first time, where people who came perhaps to make complaints did nothing but actually praise the city's authority, because it was concrete things that could be set up as a goal and also done. It was about you and access. The deputy mayor came and spoke of ten objects that have already been completed, money that has been allocated for the following year, etc. We should stop telling myths and fairy tales and deal with specific things. It is clearer as to why the people are opposed to this reform. Nobody thinks it's gonna work, and it's not gonna work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U502	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U503	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The whole capacity reform is built on the assumption that entrepreneurs who actually control jobs are motivated to recruit people with disabilities. From the perspective of reformers, it is sufficient for employers to be motivated if the state covers the costs of making the job suitable. But let's think realisticly. Do we really have such a shortage of labour that every entrepreneur is rushing to recruit people with special needs? In reality, the exact opposite situation may arise: although very good measures have been put in place to employ people, there is no need for workers. The government wants to send people with special needs to the labour market, which at first glance seems to be a sensible proposal, given that the number of taxpayers is constantly falling. However, economic theorists should know that there is a need to examine the market before entering the market and to understand whether it makes sense to go there at all. Has the government examined the willingness of businesses to create new jobs for people with special needs? For example, can we talk in percentage terms about what economic spheres these people need more and in which fewer people are needed? I did not find an answer to these questions in the draft proceedings and its explanatory memorandum. Let's keep thinking. Imagine a person with special needs entering the labour market whose life is not easy enough because he has to work many times more than we do in his daily activities. First, he will then have to undergo a procedure for assessing his ability to work on a regular basis. Second, once he's got a job, he's probably going to be under a lot of stress because he's adjusting to new circumstances. How do we support him on this journey? Does the state provide psychological assistance, legal advice and help morally, not only physically, to adapt to new conditions? There's been no mention of it. Thirdly, it is possible for a person to enter the labour market but, after all, there is no job corresponding to his qualifications, simply there is no entrepreneur who would like to hire him. It is hard to imagine how stressful that person's life will be. The government takes the view that it is enough to throw one of the most vulnerable target groups into the labour market to solve the problem, but forgets that this issue is systemic and requires an analysis of the interests of all parties involved. These issues and questions require clearer action from the Government of the Republic. Firstly, there is a need to think about how to effectively stimulate the business sector to support the reform of working capacity, i.e. employ people with special needs, whether it is tax incentives and privileges, subsidies, subsidies or other forms of state aid. We need to make the work capacity reform attractive in the eyes of the employer, and it is not enough to cover the cost of adjusting the job. Secondly, the impact of this reform needs to be assessed more widely, based on the attitudes and values of society as a whole. Unfortunately, we have to admit that our society often lacks tolerance for people with special needs. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U504	The authors of the reform should consider how to explain to ordinary workers that people with special needs will be recruited under special conditions, since, after all, it is up to them to create and maintain a positive working atmosphere. I would like to remind you that the aim of the employment capacity reform is not just to direct people into the labour market, but to socialise them more widely and to link them to society. Recruitment is only one of the instruments that contributes to it. If the reform is not accompanied by a set of measures that will help people with special needs to enter the collective in a friendly way and establish harmonious relations with their colleagues, then it can undo the positive effects of the reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U505	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U506	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U507	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Tiia Sihver, who petitioned the Riigikogu on behalf of the organisations of the disabled, has said that a diagnosis should be made to the government, because it feels that the government has a hearing disability, a visual impairment, etc. Today we have learned that this is indeed the case. When the Prime Minister stepped on the remote, it turned out that he had not noticed people with picketing disabilities in front of the house. 'I just arrived in this house, and I have to admit, I didn't see anyone picketing in front of the house, but maybe I just didn't notice it,' the Prime Minister's exact words. At the same time, nearly a hundred protesters met before the Riigikogu. In front of the Riigikogu there was a road roller with which protesters clearly demonstrated how the government would roll over these and their proposals. Obviously, they were right. The right to protest was also possible when the petitioner was not first asked to be allowed to speak at the Riigikogu. Today, we should stand here to ensure that people with disabilities get a reform that will help to improve their lives. I'm not sure that's gonna happen. Disabled people have expressed their opposition to this reform, which should not enter into force in this form. Indeed, the best course of action would be to postpone the entry into force of the reform, correct shortcomings and only then adopt laws that would help improve the lives of people with disabilities. I do not believe that the wishful thinking of disabled people is to register as unemployed. But that's what they're doing right now. According to people with disabilities, after the reform, support services that help them get a job as well as work will remain inaccessible. Where should the extra jobs that have been so much talked about come from? The current minimum incentives are not enough to motivate employers, but no additional incentives are offered. Ministers have also failed to say how many disabled people will be recruited for 500 posts to be created during the reform. One important change is that dealing with people with disabilities is one of the obligations of the unemployment fund. There their health will be reassessed, which will cost the country a great deal of money. While it is currently worth nearly €10 to assess loss of capacity for work, the assessment of working capacity will cost more than 25 times more under the reform programme. If the government is talking about austerity policy, why such a waste? In particular, officials and experts in the field of working ability win the reform with one word, and bureaucracy wins. But what will people with disabilities gain if the government renames the assessment of incapacity for work to assess their ability to work and forces them to register at the unemployment fund? In essence, people with disabilities are being pushed into the labour market, but not enough resources are being provided to enable them to do so. Consider this before we adopt the Reform Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U508	Thank you. I can't give the floor to the next waitress. Please, let's take her off the list. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U509	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, I tried to play with the figures on my own issues, and I will continue to do so now in my speech. If we take this publication and look at an article that contains these data here, there will be an image where the most work needs to be done. Like Stalnukhin, I am from Ida-Virumaa. I look at the map and see that there are 2,820 disabled people in Ida-Viru County. Thus, as one in five disabled persons lives in Ida-Virumaa. If you add more to the fact that we have unemployment, you could say equal to South East Estonia's unemployment, i.e. the highest in Estonia, that means that our labour market is somehow weak. There is a great deal of work to be done to ensure that this reform delivers good results, if of course, to believe in the objectives that have been formulated here today. There's a lot of questions. Every region, every municipality is already structured in its own right. Can it change this direction in its development or develop it better and more forcefully, or does it only exist through its current model and achievements? There's a pretty big question here. Indeed, the experience of the Western countries in this area was also discussed here, but part of it was somehow sidelined. In fact, all these countries did tests before they started developing this area in full. In my opinion, it would also be useful and useful to carry out tests in Estonia, pilot projects, as we speak. Then we could bring out all the pros and cons, like the SWOT analysis does. Plus we could strengthen it later and make the cons smaller. Then we would basically have a workable model. If we had a model, we could already say that we can adapt this model to one region or another and look at the differences and problems associated with a particular region. I very much doubt that if, after the adoption of this law, these activities are going to take place widely, we will be able to react quickly to the disadvantages that are necessarily climbing out of somewhere, because we cannot hide them. The other thing that worries me is what I've already asked. What happens after 2020? 350 million euros is huge money for Estonia, huge money. I'm asking for another minute to stop!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U510	One minute more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U511	Thank you. I am not sure that our country will be able to maintain an area of this size in the future only with its own money. I wouldn't want this success, which maybe reform can achieve, to stop afterwards, and then, let's say, this whole system breaks down. I wouldn't want that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U512	Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U513	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, This may sound dramatic, but nevertheless the fact is that in Estonia today, even prisoners have more social and economic guarantees than people with special needs. Is that right, though? Let us compare the situation of prisoners and people with special needs. Prisoners today certainly have a good level of housing, not for people with special needs. Prisoners are insured with proper food and medical care. A very large proportion of people with special needs do not have enough income to live, not to mention to live a diverse and interesting life. The availability of medical care may not be as good as that of prisoners, and its quality is also questionable. For captive workers, the state has provided for tax exemptions, people with special needs have more taxes than a working prisoner, even if they live very poorly, below the subsistence limit. This is, of course, the more general injustice recorded in the Estonian tax system. We're taking tax money from people whose income doesn't allow normal living. Is that a normal principle? People with special needs who want to work are therefore at risk of poverty. The aim of the reform has been to represent a greater involvement of people with special needs in employment. The hiring of hundreds of perfectly healthy officials certainly does not fulfil this objective. How can the state really help to create more jobs for people with special needs? The debate on reform currently taking place in the Riigikogu would make sense if the involvement of people with special needs were really and tangiblely encouraged. Perhaps the contribution of the public sector itself, which would oblige public enterprises to employ people, would be helpful here for the start. The public sector could, and perhaps should, determine the obligation that people with special needs should be employed to 5 to 10% of jobs. In the current situation, there is no interest in hiring people with special needs, as the impact of a worker's disability on productivity, setting up a special job and other additional costs must be reimbursed by the company from its own pocket. The new law provides support for setting up a job, but it is not enough for an entrepreneur to be interested in employing these people. Let the public sector set an example! Apart from political arguments, a good example is the Tallinn City Government, which has knowingly created the conditions and hired disabled people to work at the Viru Keskus bus terminal. Many public objects could also function. There are many companies that, on their own initiative, knowingly created jobs for people with special needs, and they all deserve recognition. Increased employment would also mean that it would increase the coherence of these people with the rest of the population and help break the stereotypes and prejudices that are currently hampering the employment of people with special needs. More people with special needs would also become entrepreneurs themselves if this were made easier for them by simplifying both the tax system and other activities. This would benefit both the state and people with disabilities, especially today, when many services can be bought online and physical mobility is no longer important. The work capacity reform raises questions as to why there is again something being done about the money train coming from Europe, not about the needs of people. If the people with special needs themselves, on whose behalf this reform is being carried out, are calling for the process to be stopped and for changes to be reconsidered, then we should listen to them and overcome petty political considerations that prevent the country from retreating. Reviewing the work capacity reform and complementing it with substantive measures to increase employment is not a sign of weakness, but of our strength. Today's steamroller made that clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U514	Lauri Laasi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U515	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I urge you to think about why we're here and who we're dealing with here. What should change in society this time because of our decisions? Laws are being passed on to people, and today we have taken over people with disabilities whose situation we should want to improve. However, the big question is whether we will improve their situation. So, what are we going to do about it? People with disabilities have complained that they have not been heard for years, that their situation has not changed. Today, it is clear that the situation could change, but still what? A country that has not been interested in people with disabilities for years is now implementing a major reform. But it is not prepared to significantly improve the lives of people with disabilities, but for purely practical reasons. There is an opportunity to spend a lot of European Union money and to pass on the costs of the unemployment fund to people with disabilities. So, on whose account is the reform actually being carried out in Estonia, at the expense of employers or employees who pay unemployment insurance contributions in good faith? The government wants to register people with disabilities as basically unemployed, among whom those who are fit to work for expensive money will be employed. However, there are a lot of important questions left unanswered, which create the prerequisite for disabled people to be able to work in the first place. We can see that people with disabilities who, figuratively speaking, live behind the closet want to come out of their own homes, want to be full members of society. After the reform, their emergence could become much easier, that is what they have been waiting for, but unfortunately it does not go so far. On the one hand, they are under pressure from their obligation to find work. Very many people know how difficult it is to find work, how much employers can crank job seekers, and how daunting it is to get rejection answers. On the other hand, the state has not guaranteed enough of the necessary support services that disabled people need in order to find employment and actually cope with work. If, for example, a disabled person is invited to a job interview, he may wonder if and how he or she will arrive at the appointment and how he or she will be able to participate in the interview. Municipalities have different opportunities. The image that opens away from the attraction centers is more drastic than we can imagine. There is still an unanswered question as to where jobs suitable for disabled people should come from overnight, especially in rural areas. Employers would employ disabled people to hire national motivational packages, but so far the state has not even wanted to discuss them. The whole thing is stressful for people with disabilities even before the reform begins, not to mention the great confusion that will arise in the days and months following the start of the reform. Finally, I would like to say that the greatest drawback of this reform is inconsiderate. Let's think about it, let's think about who we're doing this reform for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U516	Margus Tsahkna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U517	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! Work capacity reform has fueled a lot of passion, but behind it is actually the real life of 100,000 current disability pension businesses. The aim of the employment capacity reform is to help people with special needs into the labour market, based on their capacities, to improve their economic performance and, at the same time, to involve them more closely in the daily lives of society. This is the kind of goal that I and the whole IRL sign with two hands. After all, we have supported all the major reforms throughout Estonia's last 23 years, and we also support the objective of this reform, but the way in which this reform is essentially prepared does not suffer criticism. The only concrete outcome of this reform actually corresponds, I think, to the hidden goal of the government. This objective is to transfer the costs of an increasingly cost-effective disability pension scheme to the unemployment fund. The Unemployment Insurance Fund, as you know, receives its income from unemployment insurance contributions, which are not direct government revenue, but are paid by employers and employees. Work capacity reform will also achieve this goal by 2020. A total of 350 million euros will be made available during these years to launch the reform, half of which will come from Estonia and half from the European Union. That's a lot of money. That is why I have said in many places that this is a historic moment for people with special needs and problems with people with disabilities. We have never had one before, and probably there will never be another situation where we will be able to use so much resources to solve the problems of people with disabilities. After all, the ideology of work capacity reform is correct: the state, involving its resources and competences, is approaching every person with special needs personally, assessing him and also helping him to find a job and adapting this found job to the needs of the person. Why, then, do the biggest organisations for disabled people oppose this reform of their working capacity? All of this is done in their interests, in addition to the hidden purpose of the government. I'm asking for more time, if possible!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U518	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U519	People with disabilities have said at demonstrations and in their petitions that they support the objectives of the labour capacity reform. But they know what's going on in their lives every day. The previous draft, which we read here and were adopted as a law, was a draft law amending the Social Welfare Act, the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and other laws. It is precisely in this previous draft that these solutions are hidden so that the work capacity reform can actually be implemented and these objectives achieved. The solution is the same services that currently do not exist for people with disabilities. Figuratively speaking, on the one hand, the state wants to create jobs with employers and, on the other hand, people with disabilities want to go to work in accordance with their abilities, but one is located on one side of the river and the other side of the river, and there is no bridge from which a person with special needs must cross to get to work. We're basically putting pressure on a disabled person to cross the river without aids. It's a figurative expression, maybe a little general, but it's the place of conflict that people with disabilities are afraid of. They have not received answers to their questions. Indeed, I have to admit that the Committee on Social Affairs has organised a lot of meetings and sessions, has discussed and formulated its own amendments, but all of this has taken place within the pre-planned political framework of the coalition, and these proposals have largely been of a technical nature. Since, in my opinion, this bill has no connection with a political worldview, I have no idea why we are not taking advantage of this historic opportunity and such a theoretical consensual political common ground to do what is lacking in order to actually make the work of the labour force reform work. One objective, in addition to the so-called hidden financial, budgetary objective of redeploying expenditure to the unemployment fund, will certainly be achieved by the work capacity reform. The aim is that up to 500 new officials will be employed in the unemployment fund, who will be able to carry out an assessment of the ability of these people to work. However, their possibilities are also limited, as we do not provide legal preconditions, i.e. specific social welfare standards imposed on local authorities. I find it bad to look at it as a 'cut-off' of the old state budget, as this evil crocodile, when I know that every cent, every euro, is very important to us. I think that it is due to the political pressure of the Prime Minister and his party that we are taking decisions to make such a reform, where we are putting a huge amount of taxpayers' money, but we are not actually achieving our goal. That is why the Group of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Group proposes to interrupt the second reading of the draft Employment Capacity Allowance Act 678. We are not proposing the final rejection of this draft, but we want to stop reading in order to create the preconditions for real implementation of the work capacity reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U520	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U521	Thank you. I think that the previous speaker proposed the right thing to do; this reform should be examined in greater depth. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U522	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U523	This law is not ripe for adoption, so to speak. If we look back at the composition of the Riigikogu and the work of previous formations, but perhaps to all 23 years of the re-independence Republic of Estonia, what do we see? We see faulty laws sent from this Riigikogu hall, which have been implemented by dozens, but maybe they should be read even in hundreds. It is not in vain for the people on the street to laugh when the law amending this and amending this law is discussed in the Riigikogu. I already asked the Commission's rapporteur today why he is so sure that this law, this reform, will succeed. We can recall a number of reforms. Let's start with the pension reform we've been doing for 23 years. And what have we achieved? We have achieved one of the countries of the European Union's poorest standards of living in the old people. There's no way old people can make ends meet because there's not enough money to live. Here it has been proposed to legitimise the widow's pension so that if one of the spouses had to leave this world, he would receive a partial pension or some kind of support for serving this country together. These proposals have not been accepted. The pension reform is flawed and should be restructured. Let's go back to the hospital reform. It was launched in 2001 on the basis of a faulty and vulnerable Swedish masterplan. Now we've shut down the hospitals, we've got them in and out of here. In some counties, members of the Riigikogu have managed to maintain the hospital, such as in Põlva- or Valgamaa, while at the same time Võru hospital has been played around and given into other hands. What do we see? They don't even give you the right treatment. We're talking about moving surgical units from county hospitals, moving obstetrics. But what does that mean? We've been used to getting help from that hospital for decades, but with the reform, we've ruined everything we had. We have one of the longest medical queues compared to neighbouring countries. It's just embarrassing to look at those three- or four-month queues that are with a nervous doctor or an ophthalmologist. It is this exemplary European country that we have reformed! I have this feeling that we do not know how to do our job here in the Riigikogu Hall and that the government cannot carry out its tasks. Let's take this same administrative reform. What's out of it? Nothing, round zero, you could say. It is even embarrassing to recall the various stages that have taken place during the development of this reform. In conclusion, it has been absolute doing nothing. The government could sum up what money has been wasted on administrative reform, but the result is still nothing. Nothing's changed. I ask that, if we are going to do it now, we are already doing it, although the opposition is opposed to this new reform, do we again have the reform that the people are opposed to? He has also opposed the reform of the hospital. How many meetings and picnics have been on this topic in front of Toompea Castle and in the counties! How many meetings and meetings there have been because the law does not guarantee a normal standard of living for pensioners! I do not want to talk about administrative reform, it has been discussed so much, and all these disputes have reached a dead end. We are now reforming for the poorest in our country, who are the sickest and most vulnerable, and who live the worst of us. Suddenly Toompea has found that we have too many of these people. Imagine there are too many sick people! But let's ask where the sick have come from. Doesn't the state produce these sick people? Now we want to reform. But what is the content of this reform? The content of this reform is very simple: we want to save on the sick, on the disabled, on the invalids, because they cost the country too much. Let's reform, stretch a year, two, three, four or five, then some of them are already leaving this world, young people are getting on, and maybe their demands are smaller than they've gotten sick. We know how many sick children are born. All of this brings together a messed-up trap, which I do not think the Estonian state will be able to come out of soon. We keep reforming. What happened to our education reform? We're shutting down schoolhouses by dozens. Remember what Jakob Hurt said. We have a small nation, but he must be large in spirit. The Estonian people endured for centuries, based on education and their village schools, which have now all been shut down. The village is empty. I go to South Estonia, I see what's going on there. And once again, we're reforming. Why are there the most disabled people in Southeast Estonia? But because there hasn't been a job there in a long time, there hasn't been more jobs there in 10 to 15 years. Family doctors have met many people. If a person has fallen ill, maybe he has been given some sort of degree of disability more easily so that he can somehow support himself. But the money the country offers him is telling nothing, so you can barely, hardly keep your own life. Today I watched when all the Estonian media had gathered here in front of Toompea Castle on the ground, but next to them were the cripples, the sick, the poor and crying people with their wheelchairs, then our young prime minister, the jacket-encompassing waved in the wind, as if to save them and asked what they had to say to him, what they wanted, they were being given a good reform, so that tomorrow they would be better to live. I'm asking why people don't understand. I think we still have a lot of things very wrong and very wrong done in the country. We must have a new government after the next elections. Those men who are in charge now are not fit to do these reforms. We will stop them and make reforms that will benefit the Estonian people and everyone in Estonia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U524	Kalev Kallo, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U525	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, It doesn't really matter which bill we're talking about, either the draft bill 693 or the draft law amending the Social Welfare Act, the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and other laws, or the draft bill 678, or the draft law on capacity support initiated by the Government of the Republic. Both are part of the work capacity reform as a whole. As we know, all this reform as a whole has found sharp opposition precisely to the people for whose well-being it is claimed that this whole reform has been initiated. There are a series of activities that would have been and could have been done for disabled people within the framework of the laws already in force, but for some reason either are not wanted, able or not able to do. Let me give you a few examples that Pille Ilves, the head of the Estonian Patients' Association, has given us. He draws attention to the OECD report 'Decreasing poverty in Estonia through activation and better targeting', which contains a number of tables about Estonia that at the same time startle and sadden. It is clear from the study of the report that Estonia is extremely stingy in supporting its people compared to other countries. Estonia's share of social protection expenditure in GDP is lower than in any other OECD country, with the exception of Korea and Mexico. We can see that only 50% of the unemployed receive unemployment benefit, which amounts to only one third of the total amount corresponding to the absolute poverty line, and that support for the poor accounts for 0.1% of GDP, almost invisible compared to others, as the OECD average is 2%. In addition, Estonia is one of the few countries in Europe where uninsured persons do not receive medical care and where long-term unemployment is punished by the loss of medical care. It should be added that the recent reduction in sickness benefits has caused people to work sick and only 6% of those who are ill take the sick list. This information leads to only one logical conclusion: Estonia itself, with its austerity policy, has created a large number of pensioners for incapacity for work and is directly responsible for the deterioration of the health of its people. The OECD is surprised that Estonia, where the share of social benefits in GDP is so low, spends a large part of it on the most generous parental benefit in Europe. To sum up, once again, we must say that we are trying to tackle the problem that we ourselves have created with the reform. Worse still, we will continue to produce the people on whom half and unfinished reform will be tested. In particular, the state should create preventative conditions so that more and more people do not become the subject of this so-called labour reform. There is no understanding of why people with disabilities do not want to work and this involuntaryity must be eliminated by coercive measures. A person who feels the situation knows that the real causes of disability problems are much deeper. The most important of these are the lack of effective rehabilitation and the availability of life support services and tools. Reformers have missed important questions about what happens to their own carers and where jobs come from. Activative measures without jobs and a functioning service system will never work properly and can produce a number of undesirable results. The duty of activity, which does not actually have outputs, does not encourage going to work, but adds meaningless burdens to families, which are already under pressure. It could also be added that the National Audit Office has had some of the same views on this reform in the letter sent to us. So I would like to ask why we are doing reform when those for whom we are supposed to do so are not in any way willing to accept it and do not want to adopt it. They are ready to come to the Riigikogu, half sick in autumn cold weather, in a wheelchair, to ask once again that we do not adopt these laws in this form. But really, aren't we here in particular I would like to stress that this has been done by the coalition, I think, by practicing hard how not to listen to the will of the people. I dare remind you of the law that was passed some time ago, on which according to the survey two thirds of the Estonian people were opposed, but the law was still passed. I believe that this two-thirds of the people will show their attitude in the forthcoming elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U526	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U527	Mr. Chairman of the Riigikogu! Dear members of the Riigikogu who are present, as well as those whose astral bodies are currently in this Chamber! There have been many expert speeches here, and more or less everything we think about this reform has been said and repeated what the people think about the reform, including the target group of the reform, who was represented here today before the Riigikogu. The reform, however, continues to travel like the same road roller that was driving back and forth in front of the Riigikogu today. So this is our understanding of democracy! Is it true that the stupid people don't know what they want, and only we know here? There is a fear that this is a reform for reform. As Mr Lenk rightly said, health reform was carried out at the time, that the existing system was demolished, that something was built in mind, that thing was put on paper and PowerPoint, and that it started to be built without knowing what it was. The result, of course, has come. 20 years ago, when it was thought that the doctor's order was the five people sitting at the doctor's door, now everything is virtual, now it's all on computers and the Internet, and this order is months long. It is feared that this reform will end more or less in the same way. There is such an interesting tendency here that, when you look at the Labour Performance Act and the Social Security Act together and the Law amending these other laws, both mammoth laws show a number of regulations that could have been introduced at the level of the Minister's regulation. Could have tried one, two, and three things, and if it hadn't worked, the mistake could have been corrected. But all of this was collected for a huge reform without knowing how it's going to work, and now it's being tested on living people, even uglier, it's being tested on people with disabilities who have difficulty resisting. It's not pretty. When we were introduced to the work capacity reform, it became clear that everything started with the three whales on which it stands. First of all, we have too many people with disabilities. Indeed, in 15 years, their numbers have doubled. The second pillar was that money has been accumulated in the unemployment fund, and for years, both employers and employees have been saying that taxes are too high and so much should not be collected there. Now they've found a way to use that money. The third assumption is that, so far, the existence or partial or total absence of work ability has been misjudged. When it comes to the fact that we have a lot of people with disabilities, everyone is stuck in the fact that in the country, for example, people who have two hands, two legs, and one head, and the brain, there is nowhere to work. When a person has a health problem at all, he will see how he can do better. Just as we all do, right, every animal will see where it's better to live and how it can do better. That's when they make a disability so they can get at least that little money. As far as the assessment of the ability to work is concerned, yes, so far it was assessed that the person had a leg missing and had one leg. Now it's assessed that one leg is still there, and it's still one leg. That doesn't change anything at all. I'll ask for three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U528	Thank you. Three minutes isn't enough, of course, but what's the big deal? Look, now that you're starting to appreciate the ability to work, what's going to happen? So far, the doctors of the Social Insurance Board, who knew how to do this and who had the know-how that had been collected over decades, were involved in this. Indeed, it does not matter how we look at whether a person is missing one leg or still has another, nor does it matter. When the evaluation service is now being bought in from occupational health doctors, all of whom work in private companies, I must say that they know nothing about the ability to work, they acted on the basis of Order No 555 from the advisory period, and more or less on the same footing today. It is their job to decide what kind of health problem is suitable for one job or another, to say the least, they decide that asthma must not work in a mine. It's their job. So they all need to be retrained. First, they must be convinced that they have been working wrong so far, and then they must be taught new ways of working. Why do all this, I don't get it. Onward, inability to work or inability to work, I don't see any difference here. Thousands of officials have been working on the proud and big explanations of the reform for years. They started when the minister was Pevkur, and continued when Taavi came to the garment. They showed him their fancy work, and he said to keep going. There have been two ministers, so with double encouragement, this work has been done. They've done the wrong thing. I should have arranged the little things that could be arranged. What do disabled people want? They want more money for aids. Well, if there really is money, regardless of whether there is a reform or not, that money could be directed towards it. Here you go, who's been telling you not to do this so far! Any description of the reform ends with the creation of jobs by the private sector. The private sector could have created these jobs if it wanted to and if it were able to create them. Nobody said no! Why would he create them after the reform started, if he hasn't done them now, I don't understand that either. You know, if the officials had done something more constructive, it would have been more useful. Everyone criticises the reform, but little has been said about what to do. What I'm saying is, if there's some sort of monstrosity built up out of the necessary and useful parts, it's gonna have to be demolished into sticks and see if there's any rational use for these parts one by one. But right now it looks exactly like what it looked like in front of the Riigikogu today, when people with disabilities were waiting for the Prime Minister, they waited half an hour after the meeting was over. He came, brought two security guards and five cameras. Well, I could have brought two loaves and five fish to feed the people like Christ did. He held his Sermon on the Mount and walked away, but no disciples followed him. I believe that the debate on this draft law must be interrupted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U529	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U530	Liisa-Ly Pakosta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U531	At the outset, I honestly admit that I was inspired to come here to speak with the employers' labour market survey (Autumn-Winter 2014-2015) prepared and active in cooperation with the Faculty of Economics and Wage Information Agency of the University of Tartu. Before I introduce this survey, I will briefly repeat what has already been said in a similar debate: any person who is able to work according to his or her abilities should have this opportunity. I think it's very important. All the hands of work are essential for Estonia and it is also a question of dignity, both by the state and by man. It is also a question of responsibility. But let's do a thought exercise. I like the word 'capacity support' very much in itself, and I congratulate the people who made it up. In fact, parental benefit is in its own way a disability allowance. Never in the history of mankind has a newborn parent been able to contribute fully to the work. In order for him to be able to do this so that he does not lose his job and can reconcile family and working life, parental benefit is a very good measure. Let's look at the country with the luckiest parents in the world, or Sweden. This is where parental benefit is viewed as a disability benefit. It is well - favored that a young parent does not lose his or her qualifications. He's actually a healthy, good man, young, strong, and full of work. The parental benefit only compensates for the time it takes to raise a child in addition to working, and can also be used for one hour per working day, for example. Indeed, this is a work capacity allowance to enable reconciliation between family and work. We know that the very inflexible parental benefit is one of the causes of the pay gap in Estonia and one of the reasons why employers are not particularly interested in employing young women of childbearing age. If we already have a problem with young healthy women who are with one small disability, namely, they are of childbearing age, it is difficult to find a job, let alone have a child or, worse, children, we will see that we have not been able to solve this issue even in such a self-evident situation, unlike, for example, the Nordic countries, which have done much better with it. If we look at the reform that is currently under discussion and compare it with the logic of parental benefit, we can see that these two logics run against each other cross: in one case they are completely healthy people who have been decided to pay 100% of the allowance and assume that they are either not going to work at all or going to work a little bit, only as little as the state allows, and in the other case we are trying to do the opposite. In my opinion, these logics do not coincide. I now come to this source of inspiration, the Pay Information Agency and the labour market survey of partners, including alma mater. Here, employers have been explicitly asked which candidates they prefer when there is a sufficient number of candidates. I'm asking for two more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U532	Two minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U533	Thank you. Employers were asked questions, which are probably not taken from the air, because they have been prepared by experts and they probably express the attitude of Estonian employers. For example, whether the employer would rather employ a person who is not expected to have health-related obstacles to work (not yet about disability, but about general health) who is not expected to have disturbing family responsibilities (such as a close family or a child requiring care), who lives in a nearby area (even further away should not be like living), who is at the best age for the job (not even the wrong year of birth), whose national cultural background is suitable for the collective (no excuse!) who have not been absent from the labour market for a long time, i.e. more than six months, etc. We can see clearly from these issues that the employer, in general, does not want to take on the world's problems, but needs an employee who can get the job done. We need to solve all the problems in Estonian society that I read a moment ago. We need to achieve a situation where we can really contribute to those who have health barriers to work, who have 'disturbing family responsibilities', who happen to live not in the immediate area, but somewhere further away, whose age may not necessarily be the one that the employer has been thinking about, and we should not make a number of national cultural backgrounds. If we could solve these issues, then, yes, I would like this Estonia very much. But today we see from this very topical survey that even many of the gentle things in the eyes of employers are repulsive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U534	Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U535	Thank you very much. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U536	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U537	Ladies and gentlemen, Labour capacity reform has seriously affected Estonian society. People's ambassadors have received many letters and messages calling for improvements to the draft laws. Why? Many critics believe that the reason and effect of the current work capacity reform plan is mixed and based on sensitive assumptions. The tools of the reform are the introduction of a commitment to activity and the creation of a new evaluation system which, given the current plan, will not help to achieve the reform objectives even if the best will is desired. The sustainability of the Estonian social security system is not threatened by the increase in the number of people with reduced working capacity, but by the ageing population. The advocates of the reform have argued that without the reform, the Estonian social protection system would collapse, because people with disabilities are constantly gaining weight and this is beyond the control of the state's purse. The explanatory memorandum to the bill contains a table showing the growth of the last six years and giving the impression that this growth will not stop and it will be bad. At the same time, however, the figure drawn up by Praxis analysts has not been included in the explanatory memorandum, which shows a very different trend until 2057. The number of pensioners increased only during the recession, and it has stopped now. The number of pensioners in incapacity for work is constantly decreasing until 2057. The problem of the social security system is, on the contrary, the ageing of the population, so the argument justifying the reform is wrong, as the reform of working capacity cannot stop the ageing of the population in any way. The reform is based on the assumption that the number of pensioners in incapacity for work has increased because they are deceiving the system and do not want to go to work. This assumption is deeply mistaken and shows ignorance. On the actual situation of the Estonian social system, the OECD report 'Decreasing poverty in Estonia through activation and better targeting' contains a number of tables that simultaneously startle and sadden. It is clear from the study of the report that Estonia is extremely stingy in supporting its people compared to other countries. The share of Estonia's social protection expenditure in GDP is lower than in any other OECD country, with the exception of Korea and Mexico. This concerns the report on social policy. A number of tables illustrate Estonia's cheapening at the expense of its people. We can see that only 50% of the unemployed receive unemployment benefit, which amounts to only one third of the amount corresponding to the absolute poverty line, and that the expenditure on support for the poor represents 0.1% of GDP, almost invisible compared to other countries' expenditure, as the OECD countries average is 2%. We also see that Estonia is among the latter in terms of health indicators and that the poor population has a higher indicator of poor health than in other countries. In addition, Estonia is one of the few countries in Europe where uninsured persons do not receive medical care and long-term unemployment is punished by the loss of medical care. It should be added that the recent reduction in sickness benefits has caused people to work sick and only 6% of those who are ill take the sick list. This information leads to only one logical conclusion: Estonia itself, with its austerity policy, has created a large number of pensioners for incapacity for work and is directly responsible for the deterioration of the health of its people. The OECD is surprised that in Estonia, where the share of social benefits in GDP is so low, a large part of it is spent on untargeted and Europe's most generous parental benefits, although research suggests that in the long term the creation of an appropriate growth environment for children will increase ivet. The principle is highlighted: more for those in need. At the same time, the OECD is satisfied with the targeting of disability benefits, saying that although the benefits are small, they are rather well targeted at the poorer population. Also, against the background of otherwise poor results, the rate of high-employment of disabled people is positive, in which Estonia is the honourable third most. It turns out that disability pensions are not the enemy of work. More than half of disabled people are already in work and do so without any coercion. However, the current reform aims at disability pensions and the employment of disabled people, which makes it difficult to be satisfied. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U538	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U539	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! When the Commission rapporteur answered our questions today, we already touched on the subject of education. If I may, I will highlight, in the light of this reform, some of the problems faced by people with special needs in this area as well. First of all, I would very much like to congratulate those teachers and schools who deal with special needs each day. In our education system, there are very long-standing traditions of involving young people with different and quite difficult disabilities, including the Union with disabilities, trying to give them as much support as possible, especially in separate schools. The drawback of our system is that when a young person finishes elementary school, very many target groups have very few choices. They have more and more opportunities to go to vocational education and training, some of them also have opportunities to go to higher education, but these opportunities are quite limited. In VET, groups have been created every year, there are also opportunities for education in separate centres, but all of this is idea-based, project-based, school-based, without a broad reach in terms of the labour market. The key word for this reform is, in my opinion, the educational opportunities that will enable future generations to make better progress in terms of education and thus improve their labour market situation. Those affected by this reform, who have been at home for years, have been excluded from the labour market for years and may not be included in one adult centre. There is certainly a very big question of who the trainers who are able to bring those long-term unemployed people back from the labour market for a long time and give them re-training opportunities. For the long-term unemployed, one of the most critical places has been the shortage of retraining. We've often gotten in the way of time, we don't go ahead of time. Similarly, cooperation with the labour market and vocational schools has been rather poor over the years, which means that, for example, very well-renewed professional bases, where there are sometimes very good masters, must be inquiring to watch as labour market measures provide training to people who, for one reason or another, have been exempted from vocational training. There are plenty of such examples. It is very important to systematically review training before we channel very large European resources there. It is also of key importance to look at those regions where problems are greater, including Eastern Estonia, where re-training must definitely take place in addition to Estonian in Russian. There are currently less opportunities for retraining and further training. Whether we are able to support the teaching of Estonian as a national language for everyone who needs it is a separate issue, but it would be essential to find training opportunities in Russian. Finally, we look to the future. I have already touched on a number of very sad examples in our own practice today. We have created opportunities for these people, but practical reasons, such as poor access to space or stairs, hinder them. So services, services and once again services are needed to enable these people to access educational establishments and jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U540	Priit Toobal.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U541	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, While we are still used to hearing in this Chamber how the opposition resents the coalition because we are being run over by a roller coaster, this morning, when I look at the news show, it was quite painful to hear the representatives of the organisations of people with special needs say that the government coalition is going over them and their proposals. In order to demonstrate this, they organised a demonstration here in front of the Riigikogu today to express their minds against the reform of the working capacity and to bring in a real-life yellow roller to show the government union's road roll policy. According to § 28 of the Constitution, people with disabilities in Estonia are under the special care of both the state and local governments. This should mean, among other things, that when reforms are undertaken and changes are planned in this area, these people should be specifically involved in how one or the other issue can be resolved. In that regard, inclusion certainly means not only that these organisations and people have the right to be heard, but also that their proposals are taken into account, negotiated and, if the parties involved, their representative organisations, say that the drafts are not yet in this state of maturity to go forward with them, then time should be taken off, just as the Centre Party and the IRL Group have proposed. Unfortunately, we, the disabled and their representative organisations have not been heard. In my opinion, it was quite a sign today in Question Time to hear that when the Prime Minister came to Parliament, he did not notice people with disabilities protesting in front of the House. This is what people with special needs are saying that the government and ministers have not noticed them, listened to them or taken their proposals into account. It is also known that this reform was prepared in the Ministry of Social Affairs while the Minister of Social Affairs was now Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. It is known that this work capacity reform will have to be knocked out in this Chamber by four so that the Prime Minister can finish what he started. I regret that this has been accompanied by the Social Democrats of the Government Union. I am thinking of the Social Protection Minister, Helmen Kütt, and the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, Heljo Pikhof. Essentially, it is with the hands of these two people, the Social Democrat Minister and the chairman of the committee that the Reform Party is doing. It seemed to me so far that people with special needs were primarily relying on the Social Democratic Party, but today it can be seen that they can no longer count on this party. It certainly does not make sense for Helmen Hunt to threaten that if he does not get his way in this reform, he will resign. Well, it's not his resignation and his post that's the answer. The solution is for this law to become the same as people with special needs and their representative organisations have wanted it. There's no point in running away from problems. They need to be solved. We are not against reform. Such a reform is needed, and we are also in favour of people with disabilities getting better access to the labour market, but I think that the wrong end has started. It should have started with a stimulus package for entrepreneurs to be willing to create such jobs. All this reform should have been about the role and funding of the municipality. The unanswered question is what will happen after 2020 if the European Union no longer finances this reform. As long as the questions have not been answered and because they have started from the wrong end, we do not think it would be wise to proceed with this reform. Time must be taken off and moved forward in cooperation with representative organisations, not only by listening to them, but also by considering them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U542	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U543	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We are again discussing a bill that we know is not supported outside the House of Riigikogu, but it is being terribly pushed through here. Obviously, the consequences are the same as with the Law on Law Enforcement, so that in a short period of time the law will be amended, as there was no prior consultation, discussion or consultation. It is difficult for me to understand why the government does not want to take into account the proposals that have been made about the draft place and essentially rolls over the people affected by this draft law. These EUR 354 million should be spent under certain conditions, but perhaps it would still be wise to think about how to create real jobs for this money. If it is claimed that it is not possible to create jobs with the help of the state, I do not know what area this idea belongs to. The country also has a major role to play here, and I think that this money would do much better in this case than if it were simply spent on advice, research and evaluation. How can this reform succeed in South-East Estonia, where the unemployment rate is so high and there are no more jobs? If I was an employer, what would my motivation be to employ people with disabilities? If the entrepreneur is not financially motivated, then, I can say, this reform will fail. If there are no additional jobs, this reform has failed. At the same time, I am surprised that 500 new customer service providers are being created for whom a very high salary is foreseen, the budget has been estimated at EUR 2400 per month. I don't know what these people are gonna meet and who's gonna take them in. But was the whole system and evaluation so far unreliable? The financial cost of this reform is beyond comprehension. My mind is reluctant to spend this money in such a way that the goal is not achieved. In my opinion, we need to take a time-out and discuss it calmly. There's no rush in itself. Our goal really is to integrate into society those people who are forced to sit at home and can't get out of the house in any way. If we discuss this calmly and manage it sensibly, I think we can achieve this goal. However, let us start by involving these people in the work of the state structures. Once the country has set an example, I think that entrepreneurs will come along with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U544	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U545	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Group of the Estonian Centre Party proposes to interrupt the second reading of the draft Employment Capacity Support Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. There's been a lot of argument about why this has to be done here in the last few hours. I am concerned, however, that the people who should be persuaded are not present in this hall. Assuming that the members of the coalition who are coming to vote immediately are following the debate through the television screens, I say that you are about to walk towards the Chamber, the amendments and the draft will go to the vote on the suspension of the procedure. However, there were very few of these delegates here last Thursday when, as a key national issue, the same subject was discussed. I think it's very wrong to come to this hall to vote for something that hasn't even been taken into account. We heard today that the Prime Minister came to the Riigikogu and did not notice the disabled people who expressed their minds. We also heard from Jüri Jaanson that he always thinks there are a few people who are against something. At the same time, 17 organisations have been contacted by members of the Riigikogu, among them the Estonian Careers' Association, the Estonian Guide Dogs' Users' Association, the Estonian Kurtite Association, the Estonian Association of People with Movement Disability, the Estonian Central Association of Visually Disabled People, the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People, the Estonian Association of Hearers, the Estonian Association of People with Mental Disabilities, and several other NGOs who have said that they see strong deficiencies in this draft. These are the same associations that put pressure on the Social Affairs Committee last week so that their representative can come to this Chamber to present his views. These are the same people who came to this demonstration today. I have not seen their conversion, which says in writing that they have been heard and their fears have been removed. On the contrary, when I asked for their opinion here in front of the house today that if reading the draft today is not interrupted and next week there will be a final vote on how I should vote, they all said that we should vote against this reform. Why not? Probably above all because this reform has started at the wrong end. If the main aim is to bring 100000 disabled people under the unemployment fund, but there is a lack of solid social guarantees, there will be no security. It is broadly similar to the adoption of the Employment Contracts Act, when it was first promised that a contract of employment would be made flexible, cheaper and faster to make people redundant, and then security would also come, which has not come in five years. People directly affected by the law say that the reform should be accompanied by accessible social and support services for disabled people and their families throughout Estonia, not only in capital cities and large cities. For them to believe this, a firm agreement must be reached between the state and local authorities. In today's debate, we heard from the Commission's rapporteur that there are a number of tasks that must be carried out by the local authority, but what money the municipality is going to carry out is still open. Has the state done anything to get the municipalities to take the disabled person to work and bring him home? Never heard of it. On the contrary, the current practice of the unemployment fund shows that the unemployment fund has been very effective without having to write off the statistics of the unemployed. The number of Töötukassa clients has decreased, but the number of people who found work has not increased as much. That is one question that arises also in the case of persons with disabilities. Is it not, however, that the reform as a whole aims to deprive those whose health is not enough to pay themselves healthy on the labour market? What else have you heard? Instead of experimenting immediately with 100,000 people with disabilities, test groups could determine whether these jobs exist in the capital and the regions. It would probably be very useful to take down fears. We in this Chamber should not vote in favour of a law that creates uncertainty for 100,000 people and their loved ones. I therefore propose that the reading of the draft law be suspended.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U546	Thank you. Speaking chair, Jüri Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U547	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Over the last few hours, we have been able to actively discuss once again the pillars of the work capacity reform: how to approach this reform, why to approach it and whether to do so at all, whether it is right to interrupt it or what to do with it. Several problems have been highlighted and many criticisms have been made. I listened to all of this with interest. Some of the criticisms are justified. Work capacity reform is diverse. There is no doubt that the reform of working capacity must become the starting point for a very large and broad undertaking involving people with reduced working capacity, including people with disabilities, in society. However, I certainly cannot accept the arguments put forward here and sent to all of us in writing, as if the reform was based on the assumption that the current system is being deceived. Without knowing the basic data, we cannot oppose or agree that by 2057 we will not have an increase in the number of people with reduced working capacity. On the contrary, other studies show that this figure will increase and increase significantly by 2023. These are alternative studies. Costs will increase from EUR 250 million to EUR 437 million by 2023. I would like to remind you once again that both the National Audit Office and many other institutions have said that the current system needs to be restructured and this should be done even if we do not have the opportunity to receive European money as support. I recall a few important positive things that the work capacity reform should bring with it. One of the most important is a flexible individual approach to each individual case. Secondly, the amendments to the Social Welfare Act and the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act, intended as supporting laws, will undoubtedly provide all the necessary assistance for a person of working age with health impairment in order to remain able to work and achieve this ability. In summing up, I would like to emphasise once again that the work capacity reform can be seen as a broad exercise, here you can look for mistakes, it can be linked to the economy and education. It's all right. I fully agree with the rapporteur who said that one of the key issues in getting people with reduced working capacity to work is raising the level of education. But I want to say once again that somewhere this is the starting point, if we have to tell the system that that's enough and we're going to continue in a new way. The new system is completely novel and the new system always carries some risks, so it is important to test the details. I am convinced that it is necessary to implement this reform now and now. With these draft laws... I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U548	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U549	... progress is necessary. I urge you all to think that this is rather a positive change and that it will help people to be more involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U550	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. 61 amendments have been tabled to this draft. We will examine these amendments. Amendment 1 is from the Committee on Social Affairs; the proposal of the commission is that it should be fully taken into account. Amendment 2 is from the Centre Party Group; the proposal of the commission is to take the substance into account. Amendment 3 is from the Committee on Social Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 4 is from the Committee on Social Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 5 is from the Committee on Social Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 6 is from the members of the Riigikogu, Jüri Jaanson, Rein Aidma, Heljo Pikhof and Karel Rüütel, the proposal of the leading committee is to be taken fully into account. Amendment 7 is from the Centre Party Group; the proposal of the commission is to be disregarded. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U551	Thank you. I would like to ask for the seventh amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U552	Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 7, tabled by the Central Party Group, the proposal of the commission is to disregard this amendment. Please take a stand and vote. 30 votes to 48 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 8 is from Jüri Jaanson, Rein Aidma, Heljo Pikhof and Karel Rüütel, the proposal of the lead committee is to be taken fully into account. Amendment 9 is from Jüri Jaanson, Rein Aidma, Heljo Pikhof and Karel Rüütel, the proposal of the lead committee is to be taken fully into account. Amendment 10 is from the Centre Party Group; the proposal of the commission is to take the substance into account. Amendment 11 is from the members of the Riigikogu, Jüri Jaanson, Rein Aidma, Heljo Pikhof, Karel Rüütel, the proposal of the leading committee is to consider the substance. Amendment 12 is from the Committee on Social Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 13 is from the Committee on Social Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 14 is from the Centre Party Group; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 15 is from the Committee on Social Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 16 is from the Committee on Social Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to be fully taken into account. Amendment 17 is from the Committee on Social Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to be fully taken into account. Amendment 18 is from the Committee on Social Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 19 is from the members of the Riigikogu, Jüri Jaanson, Rein Aidma, Heljo Pikhof and Karel Rüütel, the proposal of the leading committee is to be taken fully into account. Amendment 20 is from the Centre Party Group; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 21 is from the Committee on Social Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 22 is from the Committee on Social Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 23 is from the Committee on Social Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to be fully taken into account. Amendment 24 is from the Centre Party Group; the proposal of the commission is to be disregarded. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U553	Thank you. I would like to vote on Amendment 24.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U554	Let's vote. Can we go to the vote? Just in case, we're gonna call everyone in. Suddenly somebody left. Good Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 24, tabled by the Central Party Group, which has not been taken into account by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. 30 votes to 46 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Amendment 25 has been taken fully into account by the Committee on Social Affairs. Amendment 26 has been taken fully into account by the Committee on Social Affairs. Amendment 27 is from the Committee on Social Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 28 is from the Committee on Social Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 29 is from the Committee on Social Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 30 is from the Committee on Social Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to be fully taken into account. Amendment 31 is from the Committee on Social Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 32 is fully taken into account by the members of the Riigikogu, Jüri Jaanson, Rein Aidma, Heljo Pikhof and Karel Rüütel. Amendment 33 is from the Committee on Social Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to be fully taken into account. Amendment 34 is from the Committee on Social Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 35 has been taken fully into account by the Committee on Social Affairs. Amendment 36 has been taken fully into account by the Committee on Social Affairs. Amendment 37 has been taken fully into account by the Committee on Social Affairs. Amendment 38 has been taken fully into account by the Committee on Social Affairs. Amendment 39 is from the Centre Party Group; the commission has not taken account of it. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U555	Thank you. Please vote on the 39th motion.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U556	Thank you. Let's vote on the 39th proposal. I shall put to the vote Amendment 39, which has been tabled by the Central Party Group, is proposed by the commission to disregard this amendment. Please take a stand and vote! 17 votes to 48 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Amendment 40 is from the members of the Riigikogu, Jüri Jaanson, Rein Aidma, Heljo Pikhof and Karel Rüütel, the proposal of the leading committee is to be taken fully into account. Amendment 41 is from the Committee on Social Affairs, and the proposal of the commission is to be fully taken into account. Amendment 42 is from the Committee on Social Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to be fully taken into account. Amendment 43 is from the Committee on Social Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to be fully taken into account. Amendment 44 is from the Committee on Social Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to be fully taken into account. Amendment 45 is from the Committee on Social Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to be fully taken into account. Amendment 46 is from the Committee on Social Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to be fully taken into account. Amendment 47 is from the Committee on Social Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 48 is from the Committee on Social Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to be fully taken into account. Amendment 49 is from the Committee on Social Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to be fully taken into account. Amendment 50 is from the Committee on Social Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to be fully taken into account. Amendment 51 is from the Committee on Social Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to be fully taken into account. Amendment 52 is from the Committee on Social Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to be fully taken into account. Amendment 53 is from the Committee on Social Affairs, and the proposal of the commission is to be fully taken into account. Amendment 54 is from the Committee on Social Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to be fully taken into account. Amendment 55 is from the Committee on Social Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 56 is from the Committee on Social Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to be fully taken into account. Amendment 57 is from the Committee on Social Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to be fully taken into account. Amendment 58 is from the members of the Riigikogu, Jüri Jaanson, Rein Aidma, Heljo Pikhof and Karel Rüütel, the proposal of the leading committee is to be disregarded. Amendment 59 is from the Committee on Social Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 60 is from the Centre Party Group; the proposal of the commission is to be disregarded. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U557	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U558	Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 60, tabled by the Central Party Group, the proposal of the commission is to disregard this amendment. Please take a stand and vote. 17 votes to 48 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Amendment 61 is from the Committee on Social Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to be fully taken into account. The amendments have been examined. Two proposals have been submitted to the Board of the Riigikogu. The proposal of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Association is to interrupt the second reading of Bill No 678 of the Employment Capacity Allowance Act, and the proposal from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party is exactly the same that the second reading of the draft Act of 678 should be interrupted. Let us vote on these proposals together. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal by the Group of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union and the Group of the Estonian Centre Party to interrupt the second reading of the draft Act on Employment Capacity Support 678. Please take a stand and vote. There were 29 votes against and 47 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The second reading is closed and item No 8 is exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U559	We're going to the ninth item. The second reading of the draft Fisheries Market Organisation Act 744 initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I would like a speech from Terje Trei, member of the Rural Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U560	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Fisheries market...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U561	Honourable Riigikogu, I ask for silence in the Chamber! [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Please, waitress, you can continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U562	Thank you! The first reading of the draft Fisheries Market Organisation Act 744 took place in this Chamber on 22 October. This draft provides the basis for the implementation of the EMFF funds for the financial period 2014 to 2020. It regulates the granting of State aid and de minimis aid and lays down the principles of the single market organisation resulting from European Union regulations. The deadline for submitting amendments was set at 31 October. By this time the members of the Riigikogu, the political groups and other committees did not propose amendments. The Steering Committee, in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture, prepared six amendments. The Committee on Rural Affairs met for a debate on the proposals on 4 November. Ain Finland, Head of the Fisheries Department of the Ministry of Agriculture, Marika Kairjak, Head of the Legal Department, and Geir Veski, Adviser to the same department participated in the meeting. There were no big differences. The Commission took full and consensual account of all the proposals. The following procedural decisions were taken at the meeting of the Commission on 4 and 10 November: it was decided to put a draft of 744 on the agenda for the plenary session by today, 12 November, to propose that the second reading of the draft be stopped, and when the second reading is completed, it is proposed that the draft be sent to third reading by 19 November. All the decisions were consensual. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U563	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U564	Thank you. Honourable waitress! My question concerns Amendment 5. Paragraph 72 (5) of the draft law provides for a shorter time limit for deciding on applications for aid if the application has been submitted more than 60 working days before the approval of the operational programme by the European Commission. It's usually 90 days. Why should we make a decision faster now? What are these reasons?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U565	Yes, as a general rule, decisions are taken within 90 days. In fact, 60 and 30 give a total of 90. However, in order for applications to be accepted and the Minister for Industry to be able to lay down the conditions for measures before the European Commission has approved the operational programme, this particular feature has been introduced here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U566	Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U567	Thank you. Applications can be accepted without the provision of 60 days, it could be 90 days or whatever it is that we fix in law. I don't know what this has to do with 60 days. I still don't understand why I should give you a shorter deadline in this case.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U568	I must say that this issue was not raised directly in this form in the Commission. At the moment, I owe an answer as to why the final deadline for this decision is shorter.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U569	Please, Väino Linde!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U570	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! In order not only to make the matter of time limits sound, perhaps you could repeat the very nature of the whole draft. We talked about it at first reading, but still.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U571	At the beginning of this whole draft thing, I also reminded you nicely, but I will go over it and tell you a little bit more about the changes compared to the one in force in the previous period. The bill regulates it so that we can start distributing this money next year, when we speak in a simplified language. The main changes compared to the previous period are summarised as follows: International producer organisations can also be established for the period from 2014 to 2020. The labelling requirements for fishery products have been improved. State aid information must be publicly available on the Internet. In the previous period, the information on de minimis aid was in the information system under the administration of the Ministry of Agriculture, according to the draft under way, this information goes to the Ministry of Finance's single information system. The financial instrument was previously decided by the Ministry of Agriculture, according to the draft, by the Government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U572	Thank you. Please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U573	Good manager! Good waitress! I look at Article 12 of Chapter 3 'Manufacture organisations' and I have a question. In the case of the production of sprat and herring, it is possible to ask for support if the profit association and its members have landed at least 15% of the total yield of sprat and herring in Estonia. For the remaining species, it is necessary to land 40%. Why is there a difference of 40% for aquaculture and other fishery products, but 15% for herring and sprat?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U574	Thank you, good Commissioner. Unfortunately, when we discussed this draft in the Commission, we did not address this issue. If you had been present, you would probably have received the answer from the representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U575	Thank you. Please, Siim Kisler!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U576	Thank you. Good waitress! Would it not be more reasonable to make such changes to the law after the rural development plan has been approved by the European Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U577	How can I put it? It would certainly be better if all the things that form the basis here were approved, and at the moment, it is a little stale because of the alleged overload on the part of the European Commission. At the same time, all our fisheries operators are waiting for these measures to open up. This law, which we are discussing here, regulates how we are going to share this money. The final decision, which and how much will be shared, will come in the future. I do not think that will prevent us from adopting this law today. All possible inconsistencies in the original draft of the draft have now been removed by means of proposals for improvement. I think it's a pretty good law to adopt and apply to work when the third reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U578	Thank you. Please, Aivar Chef, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U579	Good manager! Good waitress! I have one more question. Paragraph 24 (4) states that a person may participate in a general meeting of a local initiative group and vote as a representative of up to five members. Why is this five members put here? Everyone should still have one vote, not so they're taking paper with the party again. We know that there were often problems in the last period when one person had taken 20 credentials and, at one point, he said that he had the whole set of votes. There was a rumor that there would be one vote that couldn't take the credentials anymore. But it says five members again.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U580	Again, we did not discuss it in the Commission, and I cannot comment on it. Well, I guess everyone's been talked to, and everyone's got it all worked out. There were no problems with the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U581	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Terje Trei! Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. Let us examine the amendments. Six amendments to the draft have been received, all from the lead committee, i.e. the Committee on Rural Affairs. Amendment 1 has been fully taken into account, No 2 has been fully taken into account, No 3 has been fully taken into account, No 4 has been fully taken into account, No 5 has been fully taken into account and No 6 has been fully taken into account. The amendments have been examined. The Commission's proposal is that the second reading of draft 744 should be completed. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U582	The next item is the second reading of draft law 745 on the implementation of the common agricultural policy of the European Union initiated by the Government of the Republic. Priit Sibula, member of the rural committee, would you like to give a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U583	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! The Committee on Rural Affairs of the Riigikogu discussed the draft law implementing the European Union's common agricultural policy before the second reading in its two sittings: 4 and 10 November. The guests were Külli Kaare, Head of the Research and Development Department of the Ministry of Agriculture, Marko Gorban, Head of the Rural Development Department, Marika Kairjak, Head of the Legal Department, and Geir Veski, Adviser to the same department. At its first meeting, the Commission discussed ten amendments and one which was not discussed at the end of the first meeting, and three further amendments were subsequently tabled. Most of the amendments were of a technical nature, according to the Ministry. The most important ones I'll mention. They first concerned the innovation cluster. Secondly, at first reading, I introduced the issue of the producer group. There was the most substantive debate in the Commission on this issue. In addition to profit cooperatives, the Commission considered it appropriate to include non-profit organisations as a producer group in the draft by means of the fifth amendment. The 12th may be the most important proposal to be discussed at the second meeting of the Commission, which essentially includes a section in the law: § 133 "The establishment of the conditions for granting aid before the approval of the development plan'. Europe is working at its own pace, and if this rate is not the kind of pace that satisfies us so that we can start implementing the rural development plan and pay out grants to applicants, it is possible under this law. The Commission has decided to send the draft to second reading today, the proposal is to close the reading and send it to third reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U584	Thank you. You have a question. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U585	Good manager! Good waitress! I look at paragraph 12 (2) of Section 2 (p. 5, starting from the top line): 'The Minister responsible for the administration may, by regulation, establish in addition to the list of activities referred to in Article 9 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 1307/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council which are not subject to direct payments to persons concerned. " How do you think it's okay that the minister alone can decide whether or not to give support to some areas? Isn't that supposed to be for more company to decide?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U586	I think that the Minister's decision is always preceded by a debate. The minister doesn't make that decision on the basis of his own discretion. The officials are working through the proposals and on this basis the Minister will shape his position.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U587	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much, Priit Onion! I'm opening negotiations. Please, Siret Eagle, on behalf of the Central Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U588	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Estonian farmer is currently competing not with another farmer in Estonia, but primarily with other farmers in the European Union. In order for competition to be fair and possible, the support of the Estonian Government to our farmers must be equivalent to that of other countries. Today we are discussing the draft law implementing the European Union's common agricultural policy and we see that the Estonian state is allowed to provide additional support to its farmers by means of transitional payments. Their aim is to reduce the income gap between Estonian farmers compared to producers in other European Union Member States and thereby help our farmers to be competitive. In other words, with the aid of transitional payments, we can compensate our farmers for the smaller direct payments from the European Union compared to those paid to producers in the old Member States. Today, however, we are dealing with a bill that is already known that the Clothing Government is not going to comply with it. Minister of Agriculture Ivari Padar has said that he too does not see opportunities in the 2015 state budget to support our own Estonian farmers with 23 million euros. At the same time, other Baltic countries have promised to support their farmers with transitional support. If the current government intends to pursue such an agricultural policy, the Estonian farmer will not be able to compete even on the Latvian and Lithuanian markets, let alone on the markets of the wealthier Member States of the European Union. The Estonian government could learn from the Latvian and Lithuanian governments how to protect their farmers, producers of food in their own country. According to the European Union's common agricultural policy, Estonia will be able to pay transitional payments until 2020. The Centre Party is of the opinion that the Estonian state must seize this opportunity and find the 23 million euros needed from the state budget already in 2015. Let it be said here that the Central Party Group has proposed to find additional money for farmers, and we have also foreseen sources of cover for this purpose. EUR 23 million of additional support would be very important money for rural enterprises, as farmers now have to cope with losses caused by the decline in markets, apart from shrinking subsidies. Farmers are disappointed. They have acknowledged that in the current market situation, State support has become even more important than the new markets that the state is looking for, but has not yet actually found. The previous Prime Minister did not favour the agricultural sector but inhibited its activities, while the food industry is a direct security guarantee for each country, which is why the state should ensure normal food production conditions. The current Prime Minister has not brought new energy to the agricultural sector, but rather continues his predecessor's policy of deploring agriculture and less important to the sector than to other sectors. Estonian agriculture has been hit especially in recent months by one concern after another. It is therefore particularly strange to hear from the Clothing Government that farmers can only be supported at the expense of children's benefits. This completely unjustified contrast is unethical. The law on the implementation of the common agricultural policy of the European Union on the table enables our farmers to enjoy equal conditions of competition in the common market of the European Union. This opportunity should also be used by the Estonian Government. The Centre Party is certainly not in favour of the agricultural policy of the government in office, which puts farmers in a more inferior position on the European Union market than competitors. We are doing everything to ensure that the Estonian state supports agriculture and that Estonian farmers can compete equally on the European Union market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U589	Thank you. Please, Kalvi Tough!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U590	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, I had no intention of coming to this remote control, but my colleague Siret Kotka's ardent speech urged me to come here. Good friends! We are discussing today the draft law implementing the common agricultural policy of the European Union. With this law, we will create a framework for sharing two billion euros of circa for the Estonian farmer, the promoter of Estonian rural life, the rural population in the next period. The rural development programme has a budget of around 992.6 billion euros in 2014-20, with compulsory co-financing from the Estonian state and more than 1 billion euros in so-called direct payments. It must be said that the amounts of our direct payments are indeed one of the lowest in the European Union, but the direction towards the European Union average is the right one. Of course, we are not satisfied with the pace of this movement. At the same time, when these amounts were agreed in Europe, the negotiations also showed a small positive sign, i.e. the so-called 'dental money', of EUR 50 million. Our domestic decision is how much we move from the first pillar to the second pillar. I am glad that in order to support more Estonian producers, not landowners, we have raised a considerable amount of money into the second pillar. If we look at the two pillars together, which together is about EUR 2 billion, we will see that with this amount we will ultimately not be among the least supported countries in the European Union. I mean, these two support must be looked at together. Of course, our decision is precisely how much money we move from one pillar to another. I am delighted that the discussion of agreements on how we share the rural development plan money was involving a great many organisations in the sector. If we are talking about a draft law that is currently pending today, perhaps the most serious issue in the sector is the implementation of the financial instrument. But on these issues, I also see positive notes, because perhaps the financial instrument will be used to provide support, but it will also have to be repaid by those companies and those parts of the sector that did not receive any support from the European Union in the previous period. So I hope that the Riigikogu will deal with this bill constructively and quickly, as it will ensure that the funds are delivered as quickly as possible to land entrepreneurs. After all, we all want the single area payment applications to be accepted on 5 May next year, and the money will be paid in due time, whether or not the European Commission has taken its decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U591	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. There have been 13 amendments to the draft proposal from the lead committee, all of which have been fully taken into account. Let's go through them. The first, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth, eleventh, twelveth and thirteenth amendments from the Committee on Rural Affairs have taken full account of all of them. The amendments have been examined. The Commission's proposal is that the second reading of draft 745 should be completed. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U592	The next item is the second reading of the draft Act amending the State Budget Act 2014 initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask for a presentation of the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, Rannar Vassilyev.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U593	Thank you. The Finance Committee discussed the draft law amending the State Budget Act 2014 at its meeting on 3 November. The purpose of the draft is to adapt the state budget prepared in the autumn of the previous year to the changed circumstances in order to achieve the objectives set by the public authorities. No amendments were received from the political groups, committees or members of the Riigikogu by the deadline of 31 October at 4 p.m. The Committee on Finance itself took the initiative with the Ministry and drafted two amendments. The first one envisages a redeployment of funds within ministries. The second proposal introduced a provision that the law would enter into force on the date following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the State. No other issues were raised in the Commission. The Commission took the following consensual decisions: to close the second reading and set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 17 November. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U594	Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U595	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, can you explain? Within the area of government of the Ministry of Education and Research, almost a million euros had been earmarked for membership of international organisations in the state budget. The revised state budget already provides for a reduction of EUR 315000. The amount of membership fees, the periodicity of payment and so on are well known in advance. How did the money in its own time come to be half the money? Or was it done to make it possible to save and distribute the targeted grants afterwards?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U596	Thank you. I can comment so much that this is the balance of GÉANT's membership fee for the network infrastructure operating the European data networks and is allocated to the operating grant of the Education Information Technology Foundation for the costs related to the provision of GÉANT's service. I am not a specialist in this field, nor have I prepared the budget for last year, i.e. I do not have the capacity to say exactly what the then budget makers in the Ministry of Finance and the input providers in the Ministry of Education and Research had exactly in mind when putting this amount into the budget. It seems to me that, since this is a financial allocation in the same area, it can be assumed that it is simply a money for a different purpose, which is allocated on the second line. But if this topic is of great interest, it is certainly possible to contact the Ministry of Education and Research and get a more precise answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U597	Thank you. Please, Jaak Aaviksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U598	Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs! When you discussed the draft amendment to the State Budget Act for the current year, did you also have annual budget surpluses? The 2013 annual report will soon be discussed, which we will know that EUR 549 million of budgetary resources were not used last year. Can you tell us what the expected surplus is this year and for what reason this money cannot be used during the financial year?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U599	Thank you. The short answer is that these issues were not discussed. Opening up the subject a little bit, I say that what exactly is the budget surplus for this year will appear on the basis of the state of 31 December. I don't know exactly what the prognosis is, what surplus could actually occur at that date. Why budget surpluses arise, a former good minister, or a member of the government, certainly knows about his previous practice. Of course, there are planned expenses that have been delayed. But it may also happen that some budget lines simply do not spend the money. The reason for the budget surplus certainly depends very much on the specific article or area for which or where the surplus arises. This picture's pretty written.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U600	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U601	Thank you, manager. Mr President of the Commission. I ask the Supreme Court in the light of this decision when the Supreme Court decided that local governments no longer need to finance private schools. Consequently, an additional financial burden has arisen for the State. Where is this commitment reflected in the budget change for this year or in the budget for next year? Or does the country miss it at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U602	The country will certainly not overlook this issue. However, I can say that this draft does not reflect this.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U603	Thank you. Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U604	Thank you. Good colleague! During the debate on the draft budget for 2015 in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, we also discussed the issue of the country's baseline and the allocation of additional resources for it. The representative of the Ministry of Finance said that part of the money will be allocated in 2015 and part of the money, EUR 2 million, will be in this year's budget. I don't count that out of these budget changes. Can you tell me if and where this money is allocated and where it can be read from?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U605	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U606	Thank you. You can't read it out of here because it doesn't say it here. If the money is to be allocated in 2014, one of the options is the reserve of the Government of the Republic. This draft does not address this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U607	Thank you. Dear waitress, Again, I'm calling for the administration of the Ministry of Education and Research. That's the fifth point. It's about general education schools in the state. They will be taken away at EUR 210000 and the same amount will be added for investments. There is a list of schools that receive investments and what they get them for. Is this money taken away from general education schools, and these schools and the sums allocated to them exactly the same? I mean, for example, was Raikküla School, which is here on the first row, the school of general education, which was taken away from EUR 30000, and then the money was given to him to build an access road? If so, how could it be planned in this way?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U608	Thank you. As far as I know, they don't exactly match. In other words, public general education schools, where money has been taken away, are not personalised in this form in the sense of the school, as these specific items are mentioned here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U609	Thank you. Please, Jaak Aaviksoo, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U610	Thank you. I'll come back to the leftovers. To be honest, it is quite surprising that if EUR 400.500 million remain unused budget money, it has not received the attention of the Committee on Monetary Affairs at all. This, as we know, accounts for almost 3% of GDP and is almost as much as the entire Estonian public sector spends in one month. You do not, however, have any idea why this money is being left unused and whether, as a result, some public sector tasks will not be fulfilled. I think this question deserves a more substantive answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U611	Thank you. I think that this issue may deserve a more substantive debate, but as I mentioned, the Committee on Monetary Affairs did not hold this debate at its meeting. One might ask whether this amount represents quite 3% of GDP, but it is certainly a considerable amount.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U612	Thank you. Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U613	Thank you. Honourable waitress! If we are aware of the specific expenditure that we want to spend this year on, I am thinking of the checkpoints, would it not be more correct if, at this point in time, the expenditure known between ministries and government were to be transferred to the line from which this expenditure is to be made? The government reserve fund is certainly not intended to fund such a known activity in advance.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U614	Thank you. Like you, I probably got information about this at the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs yesterday. The draft has been drawn up much earlier and the deadline for tabling amendments was also earlier. I see logic in your mind. In fact, it would also seem to me, in budgetary terms, to be perhaps a slightly more correct approach. However, unfortunately, there is no amendment to this point that results from the information received at yesterday's committee meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U615	Thank you. Please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U616	Good manager! Good waitress! I also have a question about point five. One portion of schools has been selected to receive investment money because the economic costs of general education schools have been lower than those foreseen in budget planning. Can you tell me if there has been some kind of public competition, and all schools have been able to ask for this money, or if they've just given money to seven schools on the basis of a political decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U617	Thank you. I don't know how to read this policy out here. I also don't know that there was a public competition. If it has been, it was announced so that I didn't hear about it. I also don't know that the Ministry of Education had such a practice in previous years.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U618	Please, Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U619	Thank you. Honourable waitress! For the sake of the stenogram, answer my two questions. Firstly, is it not possible to build a border out of a government reserve for extraordinary expenses, because building a border is a regular cost? Secondly, isn't it that the ex-Minister of Education who complained about the surplus here was one of the biggest budget funds to be transferred to the next year? Right?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U620	Thank you. On the first question, I can ask you a question, can't I? ' to respond in agreement. On the second question, I cannot comment because I am not a member of the government and I do not have precise information on what the government has discussed at its meetings and in its office. So, at this point, I do not agree with this argument, nor do I disprove it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U621	Thank you. Please, Siim Kisler!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U622	Thank you. Good waitress! We have just heard here that the government reserve fund is planning to make expenditure that is not unforeseen. Isn't this bill in conflict with the basic law, or the state budget law? Do you find, as I do, that in such a case, the law cannot be adopted as such?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U623	Thank you. Now something's gotten a little crazy. I'm trying to explain. This bill does not impose any obligations on the reserve fund; according to my memory, even the subject of the reserve fund is not covered here. I do not see any problem with the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U624	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much, Rannar Vasiliev. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. There are two amendments to the draft proposal from the lead committee, which we will examine. Amendment 1 is from the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the proposal of the commission is that it should be fully taken into account. Proposal No 2 is from the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the proposal of the commission is that it should be fully taken into account. The amendments have been examined. The Commission's proposal is that the second reading of draft 746 should be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of draft 746 amendments at 17.15.11. the item has been exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U625	The next item is the review of the 2013 report on the Civil Service. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair, Minister of Finance Maris Lauri! I'll introduce the procedure, just in case. The presentation by Minister of Finance Maris Lauri lasts up to ten minutes, followed by questions. A member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to the rapporteur. Following these questions, there are negotiations involving political group representatives. Please, Maris Lauri!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U626	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! With the entry into force of the Civil Service Act last year, the Minister of Finance received the task of giving the Riigikogu an overview of the development of the public service once a year. Today's introduction is the first of its kind. The public service covers public authorities and local authorities, which are significantly smaller than the government sector or the public sector. In 2013, 299550 people were employed in the public service, i.e. 22% of all employees in the public sector. Compared to 2008, when the number of civil servants peaked, the number of people employed in the public service has fallen by nearly 6%. Of those in the public service, more than 24000 people worked in public institutions and 5,733 in local government institutions. There were 21,500 officials in the public service and 8500 employees with less than 8500 contracts of employment. The entry into force of the new law led to a 21% reduction in the number of officials, as the concept of an official was severely narrowed. However, general attention is usually paid to employees of the central government of the public sector, as well as to the government sector, but there is a clear distinction to be made between sectors. Officials include, for example, police officers and public sector teachers and doctors. Let me tell you a little bit more about the government sector. The number of officials decreased last year, but the number of employees in the central government increased by 1% as the number of employees in foundations and public institutions increased by 6.4%. At the same time, the number of employees in state budget institutions decreased by 2%. This means that the state has managed to control institutions closer to the so-called central government, but those that go further are expanding. This process must certainly be given more attention in the future. The working-age population of Estonia is declining and it is natural to expect that the number of employees of the general government will also change more or less in sync with this. It is important that the share of employees in the general government does not increase. This means that the number of these workers should fall by around 500 every year, perhaps even faster. Is such a dynamic possible? Yeah, but that means a lot of work. The number of employees must not be reduced in such a way that we simply move important functions of public authority to other parts of the government sector. Things need to be viewed in a complex and general way. It is important to ensure that the functions of public authority remain where they belong. Professional and dedicated officials are one of the foundations of the country. It is therefore important that such workers find a suitable place within the public service rather than leaving it. Various developments can be seen here. The first relates to remuneration. Last year, the average monthly salary for officials was EUR 1181, which is 25% above the national average. A higher level is justified by higher than average qualifications for officials, and the responsibility of officials is often much higher. The proportion of officials with higher education was 71% last year, while the economy as a whole had 39% employees with higher education. Last year, civil servants' wages increased faster than average. When we look at real wages, public officials grew by 10%, but on average 4% in the country. However, it must not be blamed that the increase in civil servants' salaries is too rapid. The economic crisis in the government sector meant a much greater decline in real wages than in the economy. 2009-2012. In 2008, the real wage decreased by 16% in the general government, but by 4% in the economy as a whole. After this strong growth last year, we need to ensure that wage growth does not turn out to be too strong in the future. However, this does not mean that in individual areas of the public sector, faster wage increases are not justified. The state budget for the coming year has thus planned a higher wage increase for teachers, doctors, ambulance and care providers, cultural workers and internal security staff. An important aspect of the development of the official body is certainly the survival of people at work and the turnover of the workforce. The severe wage decline during and after the crisis slightly increased the turnover of workers, but it has slightly decreased as a result of wage increases. It was 7% last year in public institutions. The new Civil Service Act made it mandatory to find officials through the organisation of a competition. It should be noted that competitions have generally succeeded. 13 applications were received last year on average. The share of lost competitions decreased from 19.5% to 15.5%, but this figure could be better. Finding top executives for public service is a cause for concern. Recently, the number of candidates in the competitions has been modest. Just as the private sector and the public sector in general need to take into account that managers do not have the most important aspect of remuneration for continuing or accepting work, it is more important to have suitable tasks and to be able to achieve results. This means that the quality of governance and development opportunities must also be addressed more seriously in the public service and in the wider government sector. These aspects are also important at lower levels of service. In order to obtain and maintain good employees, career planning, new tasks and self-development must be carried out in the public service. This issue has been addressed, but what we have achieved cannot be quite satisfied with. A White Paper on the human resources policy of the state as an employer has been completed in order to meet all the above tasks, as well as other challenges and developments. It describes the objectives of national human resources policy and provides appropriate solutions to achieve them. This book will be submitted by the Ministry of Finance to the government for approval in the near future. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U627	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. Please, Jaak Aaviksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U628	Thank you. Good Minister of Finance! You gave us an overview under the Civil Service Act, but you also looked in a more comprehensive way at the overall functioning of the general government. This is only to be welcomed, based on the fact that already in 2011 the OECD review of Estonia's governance made a recommendation to the Estonian Government to appoint one Ministry responsible for the development of the public service and to strengthen political responsibility for this area. I am asking you a little bit more broadly and politically. Has the government discussed this review? What policy conclusions have you drawn from this, especially given the fact that, according to the review, the volume of the Estonian public sector is 25% higher than in OECD countries on average?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U629	Unfortunately, because I have only recently taken up the position of Minister of Finance, I cannot answer the question whether the government has discussed this issue. But if you look at the size of the government sector, I have OECD data on other countries. It appears that the share of Estonian labour costs corresponds to the European Union average. While the number of government employees in 2011 was somewhat higher than the average in the OECD, it is also common to other small countries such as Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg and Hungary. I don't think we have a very big problem. But it is certainly appropriate and necessary to ensure that this volume does not expand.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U630	Thank you. Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U631	Thank you. Dear Minister, In your report, you said that the number of civil servants and the number of employees in the public sector should be reduced more widely, and this is possible than work. A few items on the agenda above, we discussed the draft law on capacity support, which we have completed our second reading and which will probably be adopted as a law in the coming days. This reform package provides for the creation of 500 new jobs in the unemployment fund. Perhaps you will describe what work you mean and when, how and in what areas do you see the possibility of a reduction in the public sector?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U632	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U633	As I said before, areas closer to the central government of the public sector have remained stagnating in size, but further areas have expanded, in particular foundations and public organisations. Certainly, this growth has also had its reasons and reasons, but I think it is in this area that we should look more closely at whether this growth is meaningful and meaningful in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U634	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister! I understand there's a requirement in the law to make such an overview, and you're fulfilling what's in the law. Nevertheless, I think that this is completely pointless. It's just a piece of paper that's done, introduced, and then thrown into the trash. All these data can be found in various sources of information, if necessary, and there is no problem. I would, however, like to know how many officials and how long they worked on this report.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U635	I can't answer that question. But I think that if the Riigikogu finds that such a report is not needed, it will have the opportunity to amend the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U636	Thank you. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U637	Good manager! Good waitress! I am pleased that you have paid particular attention to the fact that the number of employees in foundations and elsewhere in the so-called ancillary sector has increased. I have the impression that if the Ministry doesn't do anything, it's going to make a foundation that's going to do this, just like we have EAS, KIK or RMK. There's always a huge increase in the number of employees. We discussed today that 500 more jobs would come to the unemployment fund without anyone making a very big noise about it. Do you agree with me that in reality, the whole sector of public authorities should be looked at as a whole and that there should be very clear savings on the number of employees? At the moment, it seems that even if a foundation is established, as many employees will remain in the ministry as before.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U638	The number of employees in any sector depends very much on the functions they have to perform. For example, when it comes to planning EU funds, it is clear that people must be employed to do so. Yes, this often also means that we need to see if people are less needed elsewhere, and if the use of funds is reduced in the future, then it is natural that the number of people dealing with them will also decrease. If we are to provide services in the framework of the labour capacity reform and we want jobseekers to be approached individually, then it is natural that workers should be hired to do so. Consequently, the number of employees must be reduced elsewhere. Continuous monitoring of the number of staff and functions and tasks is entirely natural.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U639	Please, Siim Kisler!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U640	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I didn't get the hang of it, though. At first, you said that the number of employees in the public sector should be reduced, but when you answered the question, you said that you had to look at where it would be appropriate to increase. The Estonian population is known to decline rapidly, with fewer people entering the labour market than the number of people leaving the labour market. Should there still not be a specific objective at what pace the number of jobs in the public sector needs to be reduced? Do you have it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U641	The number of employees in the public sector must be kept at the level where it is now, possibly with a reduction in the proportion of employees. In the general government, which does not include some state-owned companies, and Eesti Pank, for example, there should be a reduction of around 500 jobs per year. This does not mean that this should happen in particular every year, but this should be the trend. What is government sector? These include central government, local authorities, social funds, various public authorities and companies, foundations, schools, higher education institutions, hospitals, various non-profit organisations, local government businesses. So there's plenty of room for reduction.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U642	Thank you. Please, Peter Laurson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U643	Thank you. Good waitress! Today there was a second reading in this Chamber of the draft law on capacity support, and the Commission rapporteur said that the state would set an example and plan to employ a thousand disabled people in the near future. Can you tell me whether there is a quota behind this plan or how jobs will be manned in the public sector? How can it be understood that, as a result of the work capacity reform, people with disabilities, even a thousand people, will be incorporated into the public sector?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U644	First of all, there are almost 140000 employees in the public sector, so replacing or replacing thousands of people is relatively easy. It's possible because people change. As I said, there is the turnover of the workforce, people are leaving voluntarily and it is also possible to replace disabled people, taking into account their abilities. Perhaps they have not been treated best so far; now perhaps they are paying attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U645	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U646	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Minister, thank you very much. I will ask the national authorities about the gender pay gap. I read in the report that the overall pay gap in the national authorities shows that women earn 9.5% less than men. Do you see a problem with that? I hope you do. And if you see what I see, what are your suggestions?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U647	This is certainly a problem and it needs to be addressed. This may partly be due to different positions. But I think we need to wait for a white paper on this subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U648	Please, Kristen Michal!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U649	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I remember that one of the most emotional debates in this reform was held with the Minister for Finance at the time on whether wages should be public. Now the salaries are actually public and this review is very good, I think it should give the state and various institutions and groups an overview of what wages are somewhere and what wages should be offered to people who are hired. What developments do you see in wage and staff policy, especially in the light of the White Paper? Will the situation in institutions become uniform, or will it continue to grope and investigate what salaries are in one institution or another and which group of employees have?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U650	Please, Priit Onion!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U651	One way is to increase the mobility of officials and offer them interesting tasks when moving from one area to another. In some cases, this is quite possible and even desirable because public service is too fragmented in many respects. When people start moving, there will be a more coherent approach and then it can be assumed that wages paid for similar work will become more similar. If the same work is done, the differences between the authorities are not justified.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U652	Thank you. Dear Minister, In what areas do you see opportunities for structural change, or where a country could get a little mixed up and buy in services either from the private sector or from civil society? Do you even see these possibilities?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U653	That depends on the field. For example, in companies, as well as in many foundations, the general principles of market logic should certainly be followed and, if it is more appropriate to buy a service from the private sector, why not? But it is important that essential services for the state remain where they are most suitable. Certainly, public service tasks must not be pushed in any way further.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U654	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallemets!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U655	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. Figure 47 shows the labour costs of the central government relative to GDP, and Figure 50 shows the change in the real public sector wage compared to last year and the ratio to the average Estonian wage, which gives the public an important indication of whether labour costs in the public sector are increasing faster than in the private sector. With this reporting, has the Ministry of Finance made forecasts of how the labour costs of the central government, as a ratio to GDP or average wages, could develop in the coming years?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U656	I believe it has been done. Unfortunately, I do not have the figures with me, and I cannot reply more precisely.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U657	Please, Urmas Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U658	Thank you. Madam Secretary of Finance! Looking at the change in the number of people employed in the public sector, especially in the central government, and the number of people employed in Estonia and its relationship over the last few years, unfortunately, the relationship between people working in the public sector and those working in the private sector has changed from year to year to year to the detriment of the private sector. In order to ensure that we do not have the power to maintain our state in the future, should we have a radical state reform that should also aim at making the cost of bureaucracy and government in Estonia more affordable to the taxpayer in the long term, in order to make the performance of the state's tasks more efficient?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U659	As I said in my report, the number of officials has not increased, but has decreased. In the public sector, the number of employees has increased in areas where the central government has a relatively modest influence: foundations, public institutions, including companies. At the same time, I agree that, along with the changes in the organisation of education, the number of schools and the number of teachers will be reduced, as children will be reduced. It's a perfectly logical process. I also expect that state-owned companies will be treated effectively and invested, and the number of employees will not increase there.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U660	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U661	Thank you. Madam Minister! We read here that 53.9% of employees in the national authorities have higher education and 62% and slightly more in local authorities. However, not all special servants have a higher education requirement. Why are these requirements so low, so lowered?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U662	I do not know exactly how to answer your question about claims, but I believe that there will always be the necessary requirements for a post. Sometimes they must not be too high; we should not 'overprofessionalise' jobs either. If higher education is not required, this requirement may not be imposed. I suppose that's the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U663	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much, Minister of Finance Maris Lauri. We're opening negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, please speak in the chair Jaak Aaviksoo.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U664	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, Unlike my colleague Stalnukhin, I think that such an overview of the public service, whether it is done under the law of the public service or for any other reason, is appropriate and practical in every way. In a situation where the population of Estonia is declining, but social obligations are increasing, it is imperative that we ask a question about state governance in the most responsible way, including an analysis of the functioning, structure and volume of the public sector and its cost. I therefore hope that this reporting will become more meaningful in the coming years and will analyse, from a strategic perspective, the trends that are foreseen in the public sector and, in addition to accounting or statistical conclusions, we will also have political choices here, whether we are solving them from the position of the coalition or opposition, or whether we are trying to find common ground. It is true that Estonia employs 20% of the workforce in the government sector and that the average of OECD countries is 16%, i.e. 20% less or 25% more depending on what to do. It is true that small countries are also able to manage significantly more effectively, including significantly smaller Luxembourg, where 17% of employees are employed in the public sector. This difference is not small, it means 24000 people. If we continue to deal with our public sector at the pace that the Minister of Finance has just said that we will reduce 500 jobs per year there, it will take us 48 years to catch up with other countries. Clearly, this pace is not reasonable and therefore this issue must be approached much more seriously than we have done so far. To a large extent, the problems highlighted coincide with those that we are probably hearing today after a few items on the agenda from the Auditor General. We need structural reforms at all levels; we need them to be politically understandable and reliable; we also need them at government and Riigikogu levels. Is it right to start by bringing together the number of civil servants and the public sector in order to create new ministerial positions? Certain credibility must start with the Riigikogu and the government. It is quite clear that if we continue with 215 local governments, it will also be very difficult to match the number of people. It should start by trying to cut red tape in the distribution of EU structural funds, not by 10%, but three times. Perhaps it would be worth devoting more human and spiritual power to this task than we have done so far, rather than creating 500 more posts for a questionable work capacity reform. I think that such discussions should lead us sooner or later to fundamental substantive decisions that would make state governance more affordable for us. I am convinced that the adjustment of power does not just mean quantity, but can also be done in such a way that the government acts more coherently, that duplication and fragmentation disappears, and that there are several other problems referred to by the OECD, which are certainly referred to today by the Auditor General, and without which we are unlikely to achieve the results we hope to see in our socio-economic development. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U665	Thank you very much. I would like to ask for a speech chair as a representative of the Group of the Kristen Michal Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U666	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It's a little later than usual, so I'll make it shorter. In my opinion, this was a good and certainly a very necessary review. With the opinion that once sounded here and was said not to agree with it, neither am I. The legislator, as well as the public, must have an overview of the development of the public service. While the obligation to present this report was recorded in the law and these ideas were sought and thought about, it was against this background that there was a need to inform the public more widely about the dynamics that were taking place in the public service and what its structure was. One idea is the same wage side, i.e. the wages of different groups, groups, and different workers will be comparable. As the Minister mentioned, the Ministry of Finance will certainly describe in the White Paper and elsewhere in the coming years the ways in which various works, salaries and all these opportunities will be brought closer together. Now, a few more points. I, too, hope that this review will be more comprehensive and perhaps more analytical in the coming years. But it would be very unfair to say that the first review was neither sufficient nor thorough. I think it was really good. As far as important reforms are concerned, I can tell my former and current colleague Jaak Aavikkoum that the government has made important reforms. A few points ago, we were debating here the reform of the capacity for work, which we have been debating for a long time. The reform of the public service was certainly also very important. This created a significant change in how public service is viewed, what limitations and opportunities are there, and how a small country should maintain its public service. They say the country is expensive. Your country is expensive, both ways, in any case your country is expensive. When it comes to where we should go, what the government has brought before us, what we have discussed here and what we will probably discuss in the coming years is certainly important. This is a matter of cooperation between ministries and flexibility in their management. I think, rather, that Estonia should move forward in order to enable ministries to cooperate better, be it the e-opportunities in which Estonia is known or something else. Just as in the current government there are ministers who share responsibilities with each other in the ministry, it should continue to be and certainly become even more flexible in the future. As we can see, life changes, tasks change and ministries should not be just houses, but teams. The public service must be alive and develop and solve the important problems of the Estonian state and its citizens. That is why this overview and other things are meant to enable the development of the public service to be seen. In any case, I would like to say thank you to the Minister, and I want the strength to work.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U667	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The item is exhausted because the Riigikogu does not take a decision on this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U668	We're going to the 13th item today. This is the first reading of Bill 715 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Accepting the State's 2013 Annual Report' presented by the Government of the Republic. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair, Minister of Finance Maris Lauri!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U669	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Estonian economy grew by 1.6% in 2013. Although this was less than forecast, this figure was higher than the European Union average. The slower-than-expected economic growth was caused by a weaker position than the expectations of foreign markets, especially in the countries that are important to Estonia in Finland and Sweden. Despite the poorer growth forecast, labour market developments were positive. The number of people occupied increased to 621300, which is 1% more than a year earlier. Unemployment fell to 8.6% and average wage growth reached 7%. Last year Estonia continued a strict fiscal policy, thus ensuring the long-term sustainability of public finances. The government budget deficit was forecast to be 0.7% of GDP by the end of 2013 in the National Budget Strategy for the years 2013-2016. In practice, a better result was achieved and, according to the data reviewed, 0.5% of GDP was achieved, while 0.2% of older GDP was achieved on the basis of a time series. The reduction in the deficit was offset by higher tax revenues and lower costs than projected. 2013 was the first year in which the state increased social benefits, including pensions, child benefits, unemployment benefits, as well as public wages. Alongside a number of positive developments, negative growth and a reduction in the number of children born continue to be a cause for concern. In 2013, the next one was launched in 2014‐2020. planning the use of structural support for the 2010 budget period. Now let me give you a little more details about the consolidated financial report. The summary report for the financial year shall reflect the accounts of each budgetary authority. In addition, the report provides data on the whole public sector and government sector, as well as on local authorities. Unlike in the past, a report on the implementation of the state budget has been published, where the budget and its implementation can be compared from a series of lines. As a result, the transparency of the report has increased, but the control of expenditure has also been simplified. For the first time, the Board issued an opinion on the achievement of the objective of the structural balance of the general government. The Council estimates that the structural surplus of the general government in 2013 was in line with expectations, while the Council considers that the medium-term objectives of the country's fiscal strategy in recent years and their changes are not sufficiently justified. The state's annual accounts consist of a balance sheet, a profit and loss account, a cash flow statement, a statement of changes in net assets and a report on the implementation of the state budget. I'll tell you a little bit more about them. The 2013 State's revenue was EUR 284.6 million, or 35% more than in 2012. Despite an increase of 4.9% in revenue, with tax revenues of 6,5%, the public sector was able to maintain a moderate increase in operating costs of 3.9%. At the same time, government revenue decreased in 2013 compared to 2012, as government expenditure increased more than revenue growth, and local government expenditure increased faster than revenue. If we look at the public sector as a whole, it has to be said that the operating result remained at the level of the previous year, but the overall result fell to EUR 581 million due to financial revenues. The volume of state assets increased by 6.8% over the year to EUR 12.5 billion. The value of fixed assets increased by 9,2%, as did all government and public assets, including fixed assets. Looking at commitments, the public sector's liabilities amounted to nearly EUR 5.5 billion at the end of the year, or 29.7% of GDP, consisting of long-term liabilities, of which loans issued by the EFSF represent a significant part. They were also the reason for the increase in debt liabilities. General government liabilities increased to EUR 4.2 billion, which is 22.9% of GDP, including local governments to EUR 1.1 billion, which is 5.9% of GDP. The increase in net assets over the year, including the increase in reserves in the public sector to EUR 502.5 million, was significant. The general government reserves amounted to EUR 621.1 million and the public sector to more than EUR 1 billion. According to the audit report submitted by the National Audit Office, the state's annual accounts for 2013 were substantially correct and the main economic transactions of the state were carried out in accordance with the State Budget Act. The National Audit Office also pointed to positive changes. For example, the structure of the state budget makes it possible to compare the budget and its implementation better. The centralisation of accounting and the use of integrated accounting software have also improved the quality of accounting in most ministries. Honourable Riigikogu! Estonia has been able to further develop its economy despite the worse conditions in our neighbourhood. This has also been possible because we have been guided by the principle of conservative fiscal policy. Continuing in the chosen direction, we will be able to keep Estonia's economy on a positive path in the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U670	Thank you very much. We'll get to the questions. Please, Jaak Aaviksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U671	Good waitress! The consolidated annual report shall consist of two parts: the annual report and the accounts. You committed a substantial part to the accounting side. I think it's okay on this side. The report correctly and fairly reflects the spending of money and other accounting details. At the same time, I think it is more important that the Estonian state, with the budget that the Riigikogu approved for it, achieved the objectives that it had set itself in the last financial year. However, it should be read here that three out of the seven priorities of the government have not been achieved. Of these, productivity growth was one of the most important in comparison with other European countries, but it has not increased but decreased. Could EUR 549 million, 3% of GDP unexploited in the budget, not have been spent to make progress on the rest of the government's priorities?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U672	Transferable amounts in the budget are certainly a problem. In the future, serious consideration must be given to identifying the reasons for the transfer of funds. The reasons why these sums were not used are certainly very different. There must have been situations where planning wasn't too precise. It is not always possible to predict all things accurately, but the problems could simply be caused by circumstances. I do not believe that the exploitation of these amounts would necessarily have increased the economy in the forecasted place, because the results are much more affected by various factors. If we aim only at spending all the money foreseen by 31 December, we will cause the money to be used inefficiently. That is certainly not our goal.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U673	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U674	Thank you, Madam President. Good Minister of Finance! I am a little concerned that our good colleague Jürgen Ligi is not in the Chamber because he is best informed about the things you are talking about. But tell me, please, your judgment! Do you think he doesn't want to listen to you, dare to listen, not trust you, or would he be bored here because you read the text he wrote? What about this thing?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U675	I have written this text, it wasn't Jürgen Ligi, but you have other questions to ask him.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U676	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U677	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You said at the end of your presentation that if we continue on the same course, the economy will be fine. The exact wording missed my ears, but that was the idea. In the next debate on the agenda, we will be presented by Auditor General Alar Karis. When you look at the book put together by his team, it seems like you're quite the opposite. In his view, we cannot continue on the same path in monetary or economic matters. I ask about your attitude to the overview of the use and preservation of state assets in 2013 as compiled by the National Audit Office. How do you feel about that? Is the attitude similar to that of the previous Minister of Finance, Jürgen Ligil, who has said that this book is full of lies and has been drawn up on false grounds, there are wrong figures, etc.? How do you feel about the National Audit Office and its reports?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U678	The reports of the National Audit Office are certainly very useful in planning the state's activities and discussing problems. I certainly do not underestimate the activities of the National Audit Office. If you look at what the National Audit Office has pointed out, many problems are actually the focus of the attention of the government, including the Ministry of Finance. Very many of these problems are dealt with and many of the proposals made by the National Audit Office are taken into account. It can certainly be argued whether one or the other comments are "large" or "less." In my opinion, they are important in terms of different timeframes, but these comments have certainly not highlighted anything that would have caused very serious consequences in 2013.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U679	Thank you. Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U680	Thank you. Dear Minister, Mr Aaviksoo pointed out that undue amounts of money would not be used and that the objectives set by the state would not be met or only partially met. But if you look at the implementation of the state budget and the annual reports from year to year, you will see that the problem is actually even greater. A disproportionate amount of money will be spent in the last month of the year, in December. A number of institutions have pointed out this too. Can you tell us what these reasons are and what should be done to stop using such disproportionate and often unreasonable money in the last month so that public money is used more specifically?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U681	As I said earlier, I do not think it right that every euro must necessarily be spent by the end of the year. It is logical that some funds will be transferred, but there must certainly be a reason for this. The fact that expenditure will accumulate at the end of the year is certainly not pleasant. This means that it is probably not planned to spend enough money. I hope it will heal in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U682	Please, Priit Onion!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U683	Thank you. Dear Minister, I also have a question about the amounts to be transferred. Previously, the audit of the National Audit Office has focused on the amounts transferred by the Ministry of the Environment, and it was no longer possible to understand whether only the amounts from previous years or earlier will be transferred. These projects had gone into such a way that it was not possible to fully understand the period during which the funds were transferred. Do you think that clarity has come into these reports?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U684	I can't comment on that because I don't have any references for previous periods.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U685	Please, Priit Tobal, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U686	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I will continue with the question of my colleague, Mr Seeder, concerning the spending that will be made in the last month of the year and often unreasonable. You replied that this was due to unplannedness, and hopefully it will improve. I can assure you that things will not improve by themselves, something needs to be done to make things right. What are you going to do?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U687	I think that these issues have been addressed in previous years and will continue to be dealt with. This concerns better planning and organisation of work. That's what everybody's doing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U688	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Minister of Finance. I would like to ask for a co-presentation of the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, Mr Vasiliyev.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U689	Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee discussed the approval of the State's consolidated annual report for the financial year 2013 on 22 September and 3 November. As a representative of the initiators, representatives of the Ministry of Finance, headed by the State's Chief Accountant Juta Maariga, presented the draft. Ines Metsalu, Head of the Financial Audit Department of the National Audit Office, and Gert Schultz, Senior Auditor, presented the audit report on the state's annual accounts. On 4 November, Auditor General Alar Karis attended the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which gave an overview of the use and preservation of state assets in 2013. The purpose of the draft is to enable the Riigikogu to perform its control function in relation to the government, to give the government the opportunity to explain its activities during the accounting year and to provide the Riigikogu with information for new budgetary decisions. The National Audit Office pointed out that the state's annual accounts for 2013 are substantially correct, i.e. the report correctly and fairly reflects the state's financial position and the economic results and cash flows of the end of the reporting period. I will briefly give an overview of the issues and issues raised in the Commission. It was asked that if revenues exceeded costs, how could there be a deficit? The answer to this question was the calculation of depreciation. Interest was expressed that if the cash flow was positive, why the debt burden increased. According to the representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the debt burden increased mainly due to the implementation of the EFSF. The discussion concerned the comments made in the National Audit Office's report. I will mention some of the points that the Commission drew attention to. As in this Chamber, the amount of money transferred was included in the state budget, which represents 7% of the budget expenditure. It was pointed out that there should be an assessment and analysis of why the investment shifted and that there could be additional material in the budget on this issue. They also asked when decisions on the costs to be transferred would be taken. According to the Ministry of Finance, this will take place in January. According to the basic law, 3% of operating costs are transferable and the share of investments transferred is up to 100%. All applications shall be evaluated on the basis of their content. Attention was paid to foundations, as the state's participation in them is not always clearly targeted and the rules for allocating funds to foundations need to be clarified. The topic of Riigi Kinnisvara AS was touched. The hypothesis was submitted that the management of the RKAS could sometimes become more expensive than the management of ministries. However, the representative of the Ministry of Finance highly valued the work of the RKAS and claimed that the RKAS can manage the assets better than the ministries that do not have a strategy in this respect. It was also pointed out that the consolidated annual report was opaque. In addition, the representative of the Ministry of Finance said that previous proposals of the National Audit Office have been taken into account and the report on the implementation of the state budget and the annual state budget are now comparable. The Ministry will continue to look forward to proposals to remove bottlenecks. The Commission took the following consensual decisions: to close the first reading and set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 17 November. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U690	Thank you very much. Please, Jaak Aaviksoo, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U691	I have a question for you, too. It is not an accounting report, but a consolidated annual report, the organic part of which is an activity report. When you read this activity report, you will see that there are more than ten objectives that have been set. Did you pay attention to the fact that the money has been allocated, to a large extent spent, but the result has not been achieved? What decisions did you take, or did you not consider it necessary to deal with such matters?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U692	Thank you. Once again, the brief answer is that the Commission did not raise this issue in this form. To comment personally, I would say that this will, to some extent, assess the realisticness and, certainly, the fulfilment of the goals set by the government at the time. This is certainly an issue that needs to be addressed. As I mentioned at the beginning of my report, one of the reasons why it is reasonable to process this summary report in the Riigikogu is that it is possible to make plans for the future. I hope that if the 2015 report is assessed here, the proportion of objectives and their fulfilment will be much better.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U693	Thank you very much. No more questions for the waitress. We're opening negotiations. Please, Jaak Aaviksoo on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U694	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, I would stress once again that I believe that the retrospect of last year, the revenue and expenditure of last year's state budget and related activities is something that should receive much greater attention from the Riigikogu and the public than it has received in recent years. I therefore take this opportunity to shed some light on the position of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union as regards the state budget, the state budget law and, in particular, the 2013 state budget implementation report, the balance sheet and activity report of the state or public or general government as a whole. I join those who say that the annual report will be better and more readable every year. However, there is, unfortunately, a very long way to go to a situation where we can clearly and unambiguously link the money allocated, the objectives set, the results achieved and the political decisions and choices made on these grounds. I must admit that, as a member of the government as well as in the Riigikogu, I have, unfortunately, the impression that we treat the state budget and all public money as too much for ourselves, not as a tool, but as a goal, but as a budgetary balance. No matter how important the balance of the budget is, and I certainly support those decisions that are trying to secure the balance of the budget, this cannot be the most important thing. The most important thing is to improve our socio-economic well-being, to cope with people, especially in comparison with our neighbours, and why not further away. Things are really bad here, it's not okay. Looking back to last financial year, we can't make any sense as to why this is the case. The Minister of Finance here just said we should plan better. I dare argue with him. This is not a problem with planning. Perhaps it is worth thinking about the state budget as such in Estonia and other countries that could set an example for us. Why is our budgeting still cost-based, but not purpose-based? Why are we still allocating money to the institutions that exist and to the people who are employed instead of allocating money to results? Why do we think that the most important thing in a year is to spend money instead of programme-based, over a long period of time, rationally plan and finance targets on a logical scale for a particular public service? We have dozens and dozens of institutions complaining that one-year financial planning is unreasonable. We all understand that this is not reasonable, but we still think that the greatest problem we have is the quality of planning. To be honest, I recall, at times, the Soviet Union planning committee, which one of the presidents announced at an important session, that, of course, the planning economy is the best of the possible economies, but the capacity of computers is small and that is why all producers and consumers cannot form a supply matrix. I think that we could also take a more serious approach to the organisation of our country's financial management, to do so together with the reform of the state and to make progress, obviously, in a faster step. Now a word of leftovers. I dare to assume from this remote control that this money, the EUR 500 million that was left over, does not really exist. The Riigikogu had given executive power the right to spend this money. If we had spent this money in 2013, we would have been less than 3%. Think about it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U695	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The commission has proposed that the first reading be closed. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 715 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 19 November. The first reading and the 13th item are closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U696	We are moving on to agenda item 14, 'Overview of the use and preservation of state assets in 2013. Correctness of the State's consolidated annual report for the financial year 2013 and the legality of the transactions'. For a presentation, please contact Auditor General Alar Karise of the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu! Dear colleagues, I will briefly present the procedure for discussing this item, which is next. First of all, Mr. Auditor General's report is up to 30 minutes. Then there are questions; a member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to the rapporteur. After that, there will be negotiations with representatives of all the political groups, and only representatives of the political groups. Please, Mr. Karis, you have the floor now!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U697	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! A year has passed and I am again in front of you with the annual report of the National Audit Office, a report that gives an overview of the problems that have been generalised as a result of our state accounts, public finances and other audits. Yeah, it's not just about the sentence, "It's okay, and there's a carefree future ahead of us. ' That is not what the National Audit Office's review will say, not now or probably in the future. This is due to the universal role of the supreme audit institutions in the state system and to the peculiar nature of our activities. We represent an impartial and independent view and, above all, our task is to bring to decision-makers the problems that need to be resolved. Nevertheless, in order to be balanced, I will start with things that are good. Public accounts are good, public finances are good, tax revenue is good for the state. The figures show that people have more work − it is a good thing. People buy more things, too, it's good. Prices are rising slowly or not at all, and this is good for those who buy things. But this picture isn't complete. If you look at these issues more closely, we have to admit that the picture is getting more complicated. Ultimately, the state's accounting and accompanying reporting are in terms of figures, but what we know about what we have done for money is little or only what we are shown. Public finances, which are at the forefront of most comparable indicators in Europe and perhaps even in the world, are also becoming the subject of discussion. Can we convincingly explain to the European Commission why the budget is structurally balanced when calculated in Estonian terms, but not calculated by the European Commission? The increase in the number of workers and the remuneration for work is undoubtedly very positive. But is this trend sustainable and meets the expectations of our economic policy? We could be sure of the trend if growth in jobs and wages were to come from smart, export-oriented companies with above average added value, and innovative working arrangements would ensure Europe's best productivity. With added value and innovation, things have not moved much forward in Estonia recently. The new Minister of Finance of the Government also wrote in his blog six months ago a longer piece of the outlook for the Estonian economy and stated with concern: "The economic outlook in Estonia in the near future is poor, there are several reasons for this. ' I have no reason to doubt the Minister's words that the prospects are poor or that there are many reasons. Against the background of the above, it is important to acknowledge that our spending must be wise, one that will make the state better for all people in Estonia. The control of the utilisation and preservation of state assets has long since ceased to be the recounting of ducats, kroons or euros in the Treasury. The task of the National Audit Office is primarily to bring out the buts and risks of governance honestly. Many may not like it, but liking or dislike cannot be a criterion for the quality of the reports or work of the National Audit Office. That is why I am telling you that the pace of economic development in Estonia has slowed down or stopped, and indecisiveness hinders our development. Understandably, it is very difficult to choose a reference base for assessing what is happening in society. Therefore, the National Audit Office tries to make as few choices as possible outside the criteria set by the government for itself. When we talk about Estonia not getting much closer to the average European figure in 2013, we mean the concept of convergence with Europe, which the government has written down in the Competitiveness Programme 'Estonia 2020'. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Let us not forget that the most important thing is neither the ranking nor the comparison with others, be it countries like us, Latvia and Lithuania. What matters is what our current situation is and whether and how we can proceed successfully. This is a very important issue when we look at the development of the Estonian economy and, as a result, the progress of the welfare of all of us. If we look back at the beginning of the 1990s for a moment, we can of course say that we have achieved, for example, the growth of the gross economic product, calculated per capita, with a dizzy acceleration. Income has also increased significantly during the period of independence. Yet we are barely halfway where we would like to go. These accelerations have not come without loss, whether it be human health, social relations, environment or other. Are we ready for new accelerations that need to be even stronger to reach the top, or is smart enough? Or do you need both? I do not know this answer at the moment, but I do know that, for example, in the area of economic development, we have made considerable expenditure on European Union money. To promote, inter alia, innovation and export. Sometimes successful, sometimes not, and that's normal. However, it is not normal that we have not taken from this experience the most important knowledge of how to succeed in the future, how to be more effective. This problem has also been referred to by the previous Minister for Finance, who recently said that investment, that is to say, the distribution of money, is not a substitute for reforms, and only smart investment will lead to the expected growth and jobs. I quote: 'A fair assessment of the domestic economic situation and sometimes painful but necessary decisions should be taken. " Sounds familiar. I believe, because that was the question I highlighted in last year's review. Which country can we afford? I must admit that this question has still not been answered in a year. However, our new acceleration must be driven by smarter and more effective action. In my annual review of this year, I have drawn attention in a number of areas to the problems of lack of knowledge. For example, the restructuring of the education system has kind of begun, but where exactly should it lead to, what should be achieved as a result and by what time it will be unknown. Similarly, what is happening around the development of the oil shale sector and environmental charges can be characterised. While the political era has determined when decisions are to be taken, a number of decisions are not clear, the health, environmental and socio-economic impacts necessary for making decisions and the things affecting energy independence are not clear. The reorganisation of the educational sector and the oil shale sector described in the National Audit Office's review is linked by another problematic common feature that is not visible at first sight, namely the lack of cooperation in government. In the case of the oil shale sector, this means poor cooperation between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of the Environment in developing the oil shale-worthy return model, while in the field of education, the lack of cooperation between the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Finance and the municipalities in order to ensure that the organisation of the school network and the financing model in the field of education ultimately ensure that the teaching profession is well paid and valued and that the teaching staff is sufficient and motivated to educate our subsequent knees. The problems of governance faced by a small open economy and a dispersed country are well summed up by the Sitra survey of the Finnish Innovation Fund "The governments of the future' this year. The study concludes that the current so-called silo governance system is no longer able to cope with the problems facing the country, whether it is social security, health services or education. On the subject of education and teachers, I would like to talk a little bit further. There is no longer any doubt in this Chamber or in Estonia as a whole that education is the key to our future success. I'll start with a positive. Efforts to raise teachers' salaries deserve to be noted. The agreement on substantive orientations in the lifelong learning strategy is to be welcomed. Looking closer to the strategy, we are faced with one basic problem: how to measure and describe the teacher's income? When taking data from official sources, including those available to the public, the teacher must be equated with an educational worker, i.e. a much wider range, which involves more than the teacher facing the class. If we add different data sources for estimated or actually paid wages here, we will get controversial results for some of them. Results that cause confusion and controversy. At the same time, there is a particular problem with the lack of a clear indicator of teacher pay. While recent efforts have been made by the government to increase the pay of teachers, which has also raised the average wage, in a large picture, for example, in comparison with OECD countries, for which the latest data are available, the Estonian teacher is, unfortunately, firmly in the last place with his income. Auditing the field of education also reveals the sad fact that our brighter-headed young people do not choose the teaching profession or career and our faculty ages quietly but firmly. In addition to the confusion in the organisation of the school network, which is reflected in the unequal access to education and the fluctuating quality of education in real life, the question inevitably arises as to why the central government has taken the stand-by position in solving educational problems. Is this a political choice or indecisiveness, or is this indecisiveness a political choice? In any case, such behaviour has its own cost and far-reaching effect. Of course, evolutionary development certainly has its advantages. This will ensure success for stronger and more adaptable specimens according to the laws of nature. Unfortunately, this approach to government is not the most sensible. You don't have to look far for an example. The example that we had to mention this time in our review is, of course, the reform of the municipality. When I spoke earlier about the lack of knowledge in the fields of economy, education and oil shale, the municipality reform is a subject that has been, and indeed has been, the subject of knowledge accumulated over the years, but there is no decision on the active intervention of the state. If we come back to the need to increase Estonia's development at an earlier or even faster pace, regional development that takes into account the peculiarities and strengths of Estonian sites is both a prerequisite for success and a direct contribution to improving the well-being of Estonian people. Without the reform of the local government, the availability of public service will become increasingly unequal for the people of Estonia and the quality of the public service will become increasingly variable. Good listener! I will leave this year's speech without giving any further consideration to the major concerns of the social sector, including the financing of the health care system. You can read about them in the overview of the National Audit Office, you have become more familiar with the issues of labour capacity reform at the debate that took place here last week, as well as at the procedure of the drafts today. You can also read about the problems with the availability of open data and the shortcomings in the audits that ensure the security of information systems. These topics in the field of information and communication technology included in the overview of the National Audit Office are just an introduction. The National Audit Office intends to address developments in e-Estonia more widely in the coming years. Honourable Riigikogu! I have also said before in this Chamber that representatives of the coalition parties of the Riigikogu should particularly be interested in ensuring that the activities of the executive power are more knowledge-based. I will do it again by extending the idea to the Riigikogu as a whole. It is you who can demand knowledge-based behaviour from the executive, such as not accepting drafts with incomplete impact assessments or one-sided progress reports. You are the ones who will finally decide on the major reforms, and you can also dictate the pace of these reforms. The National Audit Office wants to continue to be a useful partner for you in this work, also with this review. But about the partnership. I was recently introduced to a comparative study on the impact of performance audits carried out among the highest audit institutions in the Nordic countries. In this study, nearly 120 Estonian officials gave their assessment of the impact of the audit, who have practically been exposed to the audits of the National Audit Office. I bring out two remarkable points. First, the performance audit of the Estonian National Audit Office is considered to be quite a cause of change, especially in comparison with other Nordic countries. Secondly, Estonia is very clearly distinguished by the fact that the members of the Riigikogu do not use the information presented in the audits to initiate changes and make the executive power responsible for the results of their activities. A poor example of this latter aspect is the debate held in the Riigikogu conference hall at the meeting of the State Budget Control Committee this year. The discussion covered the observations and problems of the e-health audit carried out by the National Audit Office and involved the members of the Riigikogu Committee and the heads of Estonian health services and top officials. The Ministry of Social Affairs, as its representative, sent an official to the debate in charge of the functions of Head of Department. The official who was put in this difficult position was good, but no binding promise to change the situation can be given as a good official to the Riigikogu for a minister. This, honourable members of the Riigikogu, is not an acceptable behaviour; you should not accept it and the National Audit Office cannot accept it. I therefore call for further discussions on the audits of the National Audit Office with the participation of the Chancellor or Minister, as the main part of the recommendations of the National Audit Office's audit report is addressed to the Minister. I also assume that the effective cooperation between the Riigikogu and the National Audit Office will lead to more demanding information provided by the government. We must not accept empty reports or hollow explanations, which do not give a true picture of the situation and which have been wasted unnecessarily on time and taxpayers' money. For my part, I assure you that I will continue to contribute to the development of the competence of my auditors and to improving information about the results of the work of the National Audit Office. I continue to consider it very important to establish the capacity of the National Audit Office to audit the areas of internal security and defence. The increase in the audit capacity in this area depends in many respects on the decisions of the Riigikogu Committee on Finance and the Riigikogu. Finally. This year, in addition to the problems, I have also highlighted concrete recommendations more clearly in the review. Consider them a reminder, an inspiration or a solution from which to shape suitable drafts or shape your positions for decision. I can confirm that the National Audit Office will continue to monitor the development of important areas and will highlight risks and problems so that you can do your work as well as possible in this Chamber. Before the forthcoming elections of the Riigikogu, I would remind you once again that all the reports of the National Audit Office are readily and free of charge available on the Riigikogu's website. In order to promote the Estonian government culture and make better decisions, I invite you to get acquainted with them. Do so boldly, openly and consistently, not like the peasants of the Vicar in Odja's orchard, which has been well written by August Gail in his novel 'Ekke Moor'. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U698	Dear Auditor General, thank you very much. You have a lot of questions, too. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U699	Thank you. Thank you, too, Mr. Auditor General. In essence, I will continue on this subject, which Mr Aaviksoo spoke about in the previous item. He asked why, by the end of the year, such large sums would not be used. If I look at your report, the estimated revenue and actual receipts in the state budget in the 11th position, which is the income tax of the legal person and the excise duty on fuel, does not add up to 15 to 25%. My question is: who is responsible for us starting the year the same way, but ending the year with other figures?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U700	As far as excise duties on fuel are concerned, in the case of excise duties on fuel, this difference is due to a reduction in consumption of petrol and diesel. The income tax of a legal person is linked to dividends, but people did not pay them out when times were more complicated. Returning to this issue, which has been touched on here and to which the National Audit Office has clearly drawn attention, the same 7% of the state budget that has been transferred and for which we cannot get any explanations, perhaps all this is justified and necessary, but unfortunately it is not transparent. That is our point and our reproach in this regard. That has already sounded here today in a number of speeches. I believe that, as the new Minister of Finance promised, next year could be a completely different situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U701	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U702	Thank you. Dear Auditor General, I can only ask one question, and I am therefore asking about the debate that got a little rude in the Committee on Monetary Affairs last week. In your report, it is said that, when comparing Estonia's level of development with the European Union average, the GDP per capita on the basis of purchasing power, productivity and price level, it has to be said that, at least according to these examples, Estonia did not catch up significantly on the average of the European Union in its development in 2013, and as it turns out, Latvia and Lithuania did better. Jürgen Ligi attacked you and said you had the wrong numbers. Do you want to get the writing done and give us the right numbers, or was Jürgen Ligi wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U703	I'd be happy to be more specific about the bill. When the National Audit Office sets up its annual report, all factual figures are sent to the ministries for verification. This means that they have the opportunity to assess whether they are wrong or correct and then send them back to the National Audit Office with their comments. In other words, all the figures in the annual report have been verified in the respective ministries, and the Ministry of Finance is the Ministry that receives the whole package, or the annual report as a whole, and not just the part of the Ministry of Finance. So if the report contains incorrect data, the Ministry of Finance has also approved the incorrect data. But it's more of a discussion about just not liking it. I also do not like that Lithuania and Latvia are currently doing better than Estonia. And that's our problem. You shouldn't get mad about that. I've been a scientist, and sometimes I've happened to have a hypothesis of one, but the test results show something else. I'm not throwing the test result into the trash, I'm still looking at my hypothesis. So, of course, it's unpleasant, there's a lot of work done, but the result is not what you want.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U704	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U705	Thank you, Vice President of the Riigikogu. Mr. Auditor General! The reports of the National Audit Office have been very interestingly prepared, with both conclusions and suggestions presented nicely. They're pretty good to read. I'd love to read them. Unfortunately, I have to admit, not all of them. But in general I like them, they're easy to read, they're perfectly understandable. My question, however, is that the National Audit Office also has a guiding and consultative role in improving the internal control systems of the state authorities and institutions administered by the authorities. Internal control is very important, especially in ensuring the correct use of state assets and the legality of transactions. Does the National Audit Office also have any overview of the state of internal control in public authorities and institutions administered by public authorities?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U706	The National Audit Office has clearly looked at these problems. This has also been pointed out in our earlier audits, particularly with regard to local authorities, especially smaller local authorities, where there is in fact no internal control capacity. Also in the very committees that have been created, there are often no competent people, or they are put together by people who are in the coalition in our sense. The examiners are, in fact, with the same views and perceptions as, for example, the mayor and the people who run this municipality. So these problems are clearly present and are also highlighted in previous audits.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U707	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U708	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Dear Auditor General, In your review of the use and preservation of state property last year, you write about the issues of local governments, local government reform, and you also refer to the decision of the Supreme Court of 11 March 2010. You say that, in this situation, where the current coalition has hindered the reform of the government, the Government of the Republic admits in one letter that they have not complied with this decision and that your institution has pointed it out in the past. This decision was adopted in 2010 and the report is for 2013. This means that in previous years, 2011 and 2012, this decision has also not been complied with and, in fact, we have not seen implementation of this decision either in 2014 or in the 2015 budget. How, then, can we be sure that the state budget and later the reports are correct if the Supreme Court's decision is not complied with?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U709	This is one problem that we have pointed out, as you are referring to, for a long time. This year is perhaps the first year in which the Government of the Republic will testify, as it says here, that this task has not been fulfilled. Today we have heard that, in the context of the work capacity reform, additional tasks are being assigned to the local government, but where the necessary resources come from is not described. So there's a problem. I can't imagine how we can live in a country like this if the decisions of the Supreme Court are not enforced. It's a precedent.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U710	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U711	Mr. Auditor General! I quote at point 175 of your report: 'Although the precise division of responsibilities between the state and the municipalities and the financing scheme do not affect the municipalities to organise the school network and suffer from the quality of education, the state must take a stronger position in the organisation of the school network. ' I would like to ask what the quality criteria for education are for you. Where do you get these? For example, if among the first 30 schools in the ranking list there are quite a number of small magymnasiums that you recommend closing down, on the basis of which you claim that these schools do not provide high-quality education and that the quality of education is related at all to what you call the organisation of the school network?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U712	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U713	I wouldn't use these examples to make it look like it's okay. We also know from research that the quality of teaching varies in schools. What are we talking about today? What we are talking about is that the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act provides for the establishment of state secondary schools. However, we do not have a position on what happens to upper secondary schools created by local governments. Are they competing with each other? In fact, no law is currently relevant to what becomes of primary schools. There is a complete problem from primary school, from early childhood education to higher education, and this problem needs to be addressed. This is also what I referred to in my speech, that these things cannot be viewed alone. Well, according to what you're asking, yes, the school network needs to be organized. With that, I think, you're in. All studies have also shown that the number of small schools and teachers has remained almost the same, but the number of students has decreased several times and this trend continues.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U714	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Auditor General! With this self-government reform, I think it is the case that everyone says that a decision has to be made, but no one makes a decision, and if someone does, it will be blocked. These assessments, which you will present on the last pages of the report on the objectives of the municipal reform, are certainly sympathetic. You probably cannot propose a reform programme for politicians, but perhaps you can generalise what is wrong with our state administration or the political system, that this reform has been entangled for 20 years. And if it still gets stuck, what are the consequences?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U715	Thank you. I would not dare to express my opinion on what is wrong in our country's system as a whole. We point to these problems, which actually form a whole. Administrative reform is clearly one of these problems. For example, only a few days ago, Jõgeva announced that he would recreate the plan put in the drawer four years ago and that he could still meet the Jõgeva municipality. That's a typical example of how everything just bends. At one point, they're gonna take it back on the table, but there's no guarantee they're gonna make a decision. One of our messages is that the country should have a clearer and bolder role, so that these decisions can be made. This is not just a matter of municipal reform. Today, there have been reports of all kinds of reforms in this Chamber that have remained exactly the same. We'll point it out. This indecisiveness can lead to, I don't want to say crash, but to a real problem. At the same time, we also see that, on the one hand, there is indecisiveness to reforms, on the other hand, there are reforms that do not have impact studies. This is the same knowledge base that is missing. These are the two problems that we have highlighted here in terms of reforms. After all, it is in the hands of the Riigikogu and the government so that the reforms do not stop.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U716	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U717	Thank you, manager. Dear Auditor General, I'm sorry your performance was planned here at midnight. I don't know if it was a conscious choice for someone to be ashamed of your report. It's very sad for me. After all, talk is repeated year after year, an example of how Latvia and Lithuania are moving faster than us, and the claim that public finances are in order. It's not okay, of course, but it's a matter of its own. I will ask whether it is even possible for the country to move forward if we do not make important reforms, such as self-government reform, state reform and tax reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U718	Dear Auditor General! I'm sorry for a moment! As the President must also ensure that this debate is conducted, my heart was troubled when you, Mr Tamm, said that you were sad. We are still trying to be cheerful in this hall, even though we have a late night hour. We'll hold and support each other, then we'll be more productive and more effective. So try to get out of this sad zone! I'm so sorry, Mr. Auditor General, but I wanted to say no.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U719	Thank you. I listened to this interlude, and I forgot the question. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U720	Please get the mike back to Mr. Tammele so he can repeat the question! My fault, I'm sorry, good colleagues!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U721	Thank you. I didn't forget the question, it's written down. I'm not coming back to the beginning, but I'm saying that it makes me sad that the same things are repeated year after year and nothing's for the best, everything's frozen. And then we wonder that Latvia has already passed us and Lithuania is on its way. I ask you, Mr Auditor General, whether it will be possible to move forward in Estonia if we do not make important reforms of local government reform, state reform and tax reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U722	Thank you. There's still a way to go. The question is, what will happen to us next? And when you brought Latvia and Lithuania as a comparison, there is actually one problem here. We can see that Latvia is facing and behind Lithuania now, but in fact, all the Baltic countries have one problem. We might call it some medium wage trap or a medium wage trap or whatever, but we're probably trapped, and that's why I referred to the cleverness today very many times, not that it's something very new. The whole report is actually a problem for me because we are always talking about the same old things. I'd like to tell you something new, too, but there's no way. So all the Baltic States may have the same problem at some point that we will not get out of this situation unless we try to do something different. However, if we listen to the proposals that come, I have heard them for 15 years. I've heard for 15 years that universities, research institutions and companies need to work together. I have heard that people do not want to do business, they have certain fears, etc. They are repeated in various programmes all the time. But how do we deal with the situation? The question is how, but that's how we don't have a thing. We can already describe the world. We know and we can tell how this thing is happening to us. But what happens next, what should we do differently? Now we're going to have this "smart specialization." So how smart are we? I'm just as worried about the fact that it's 12 o'clock and I could be glad the day's over.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U723	Lauri Laasi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U724	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Auditor General! How much of a threat do you consider emigration to the sustainability of the Estonian economy?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U725	Thank you for your question. Emigration is clearly a matter, and it also concerns many other countries, including the same analogue countries that we are talking about. In Lithuania, this question is rather worse. But when it comes to emigration, people in today's world have to move, that's what I'm relatively convinced of. But we here should do everything we can to get them to come back at one point, and for that we need these reforms. I think that's the problem at times, that people may have moved around a little. The more they move, the better. Today, an overview of GEM, which I think was discussed in this house, came out very clearly that those who have moved around are more enterprising. It also turned out that more enterprising people are happier. So let's put these two things together. But we need to make sure that those who go out come back, so that we keep an eye on those who are more qualified than they get out there. A lot of people are going to study, but it makes sense to call them back at one point, create an environment for that. It is a problem in itself whether we have such an environment. And do we really want this? If only the mediocre people remain here, all the clever ones have left, then no mediocre person wants a smart person next to him. He's doing everything he can to make sure that person doesn't come back.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U726	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U727	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, According to the OECD, only Israel and Iceland made less provision for social and health expenditure than Estonia. At the same time, the Health Insurance Fund's development plan 2015-2018 provides that treatment queues should be reduced. However, it is known that the treatment queues have actually increased from year to year. How do you feel about shortening treatment queues in the coming years?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U728	Thank you. I don't know what that's supposed to be. I hope that they will shorten because we all probably need medical attention at one time or another. But our audit also clearly shows that the treatment queues are longer than shortening. And the same social money we have is fixed. If we add more pensions and pension expenditure, which has increased by 20% in the last year, then there is a clear problem, particularly as regards these fixed incomes. However, there are a number of problems, we cannot lose special pensions, except in a few cases, etc. So the health insurance budget has become worse and worse, that is true. These are the problems that we are pointing at and which the government should find a solution to.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U729	Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U730	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, There has been a long record of exports, and emphasis has been placed on the fact that the share of our closest neighbours is quite high. It is now evident that the market of one of the closest neighbours is likely to fall away. How much could this affect the Estonian economy and what alternatives could there be?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U731	Thank you. It is clear that the law on gravity also applies to some extent to the economy, which means that in general export and economic relations with neighbouring countries are the closest. As far as this falling market is concerned, we have, as we know, been looking for or starting to look for markets even further away. The new Minister, Minister for Foreign Trade and Entrepreneurship, has also promised that, for example, milk can be transported to Asia, etc. However, I see the problem that we do not know exactly, as we stress in the report, whether these subsidies create some new conditions for productivity to increase. We do not know whether the measures we are taking will increase exports. We don't have a clear understanding of that. In this table, which you can look at, there is a country in Togo with which we have very good relations in terms of exports, they are better than relations with Denmark. This means that we should look inwards at what these statistics are really like, what I was referring to. It is time to look inside them, see what they really mean when we talk about R &amp; D and its growth, whether or not there are apparatus and instruments behind them that we have bought and that stand or do not stand. Our problem is people. You can still play with statistical numbers. But it is clear that export markets are a question. I'll give you a completely outlying example, but it's very vivid when we talk about Asia and how it makes sense to make choices. The government office discussed an issue such as additional funding for Estonia's representation in Expo, which will be in Milan next year. It has already been spent some EUR 300000, but more money is needed because it turned out that all this construction, surprise-surprise, is under Italian law and more resources are needed. Why I'm talking about it is that we can't make a choice whether it makes any sense. When we talk about neighbours, the Nordic countries, along with Denmark, have clearly found that they are not participating in the Expo. Their system used to be that half the money comes from businesses and half the money comes from the state. The companies considered that they did not have such a resource and that there was no need to go to Expo. We'll be there in our so-called saving mode. A total of around 4 million will be needed to finance this. The next grotesque story about it is where we are. We're located between two countries, between two big pavilions. On one side is Oman and on the other there is the Russian Federation. We're with our little savings booth between these two big pavilions. I don't know if it makes sense to be there. How many people in Italy would like to enter into export relations with Estonia? So the problem is that at some point we are unable to decide whether anything is reasonable or unreasonable. I also asked the Minister for Agriculture a question when it came to the problems that have arisen in agriculture. We go to Grüne Wochel. I asked how much going to Grüne Wochel has helped us to have these necessary markets now that we are in a difficult situation. The answer to the pad was relatively clear: I don't think so. When I asked that we also went to Shanghai Expo a few years ago to see if it had helped to discover the Asian markets, the response of a high state official was that going to Shanghai was a political decision; entrepreneurs did not see the need to do so. If operators did not see the need then, and yet do not see the need to go to Italy, why are we there? This is just one example: the question is EUR 4 million. At one point, there may even be 300,000, how to say now, taxpayers wasted money. However, it would be wiser to decide that if we fail to do so in the best way, we will withdraw from it. We have major projects ahead of us, Rail Baltic, LNG terminals, etc. We must have the wisdom to make these decisions and choices at the right time. I'm sorry I got a little distracted!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U732	And now, Marika Tuus-Sing, please, your turn!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U733	Thank you. Dear Mr. Karis! You have really dealt very thoroughly with health issues this time. The WHO also made a rare in-depth review a few years ago, and their message was also that the financing of health care in this form was not sustainable, and the warnings were quite strong. You also make a number of proposals, and they have been made in the past. However, when we have asked the ministers, it is considered, for example, very normal that, although an official six-week queue is allowed, it is sometimes five months in order to be like this. I'm asking you where you think we're going like this, just like you asked me before, what's going to happen to our health care system?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U734	Thank you. If the order is five months or ten months, then the one with a little more resources will see if there is another country where assistance can be obtained. The queues must, of course, decrease. However, the second aspect that came out of this reform that you discussed today is prevention. It doesn't put enough resources in it. After all, we see that the basic health problem is that less than 1% of resources have been put into prevention, or, if we look at it more positively, 3%, which is clearly too little. In other words, the sick who need medical care are constantly catching up and the queues are increasing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U735	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U736	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Auditor General, In your report, I caught one very well-founded appeal, which sounded something like not to accept draft laws with a lack of impact analysis. That's a good one! But we meet these kinds of drafts very often here, especially when there is a government bill that was needed yesterday. This will be done quickly and there will be no impact analysis. Only, as you know, we have more coalition members in this Chamber, and they regard the bill of government, executive power, as the sacred word of Allah, which doubt is a great sin, and are willing to sign it with their eyes closed. How, then, can you follow your call, the power of the opposition will not be enough? The last example is this work capacity reform, which lacks any meaningful impact analysis for the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U737	Thank you very much. The National Audit Office is a bit like the OECD, which makes recommendations, but they are not mandatory for any country. Similarly, the recommendations of the National Audit Office are not mandatory. If there are reasonable suggestions, I believe that the majority are reasonable, then the sensible government will take them into account. In fact, he has, in principle, taken them into account, as confirmed by the aforementioned study. However, I referred to 'Ekke Moor' because it is done secretly, secretly and in the dark of the night, but in the end it is considered. So the National Audit Office cannot contribute much here; it can only continue to point out that the problem exists and needs to be solved. It's all in your hands. I do not know what the situation would be if there were more opposition members here and fewer coalition members.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U738	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U739	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Despite your admonition, however, I accept the right to be sad that the Reform Party has prevented and hindered the implementation of administrative reform in the Republic of Estonia. Madam Auditor General, you refer in your review that there is no alternative to the municipal reform, and you point out that the Minister of Finance and the Minister of the Interior have been tasked with presenting a municipal reform plan containing relevant proposals by the end of 2014. The end of 2014 is not far at all, Christmas is just outside the door. Has the Minister of Finance and the Minister of the Interior involved you in the preparation of these proposals?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U740	We are not, in principle, involved in this sense, even though, as in the case of the reform of the capacity to work, our people have clearly tried to intervene earlier rather than ex post estimates that one or the other reform is bad. It's the same here. We are familiar with the subject, but since it has not yet been specifically developed, I do not know how to make an assessment. Processes are ongoing, our people are aware and consultations are probably ongoing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U741	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U742	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, waitress, for an excellent overview of both the paper and the speaker's stand! I'd like to ask you something like this. For the last ten years, Estonia has adopted the European Union's assistance and, before that, the European Union's structural assistance. The share of various external aids in the Estonian budget has been, as I recall, 18% at most, sometimes 12%, more than 10% anyway. At the same time, economic growth has remained between 2 and 4. If we look at these percentages, do we have the impression that we have not created added value, as with economic aid, but simply used this help? Does Estonia's alleged success in adopting the structural assistance of the European Union mean that it has successfully developed the economy, or is it a successful bureaucracy that we are able to produce projects and line up reports well?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U743	Thank you. I will use the conclusion of another body of control in my reply. After all, the European Court of Auditors, whose report was also presented to the Riigikogu, concluded that a certain amount of European Structural Funds' money had been used incorrectly at all, which was 'exploited' precisely these words were used. This means that it was not viewed as purposefully, how efficiently, how reasonably, the money has been used. It turned out that there were no clear criteria in Europe for assessing this effectiveness and targeted use at all. All they do is make sure the money's spent. Unfortunately, it is exactly the same in Estonia. All our steam, if you could say so, has gone on to spend the resource, and if there's any resources left, we'll move it somewhere else, as long as it's spent. No one has time to think about whether it is being used wisely.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U744	Dear colleagues and esteemed Auditor General, congratulations to you, a new day has begun, November 13th! Let's get out of here! Let's get out of here! Kalev Kallemets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U745	Mr President, I am sorry, my question will be longer. Dear Auditor General, In September of this year, you asked the members of the Riigikogu for ideas and suggestions for preparing the 2015 work plan of the National Audit Office. The President of the Reform Party Group wrote the following letter to you: 'I would like to begin by thanking you for waiting this year, like in previous years, for the ideas and proposals of the Reform Party Group to pass on to the National Audit Office. Since the principles of good inclusion provide that inclusion must not be apparent, we wish to see an audit in the work plan of the National Audit Office, which would describe, for example, the last decade, several proposals received by the National Audit Office have been taken into account and which are the basis for the choice and decision of calculation. Feedback is certainly one of the pillars of inclusion, so we also have a better understanding of whether our contribution has given the National Audit Office good grades, and we know how to help in the future. With all due respect, Kristen Michal. ' That's what we got on 24 September...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U746	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U747	... Thomas M's reply, the content of which was that, what else, the Auditor General has gone to the committees to explain how the work plan is to be drawn up...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U748	Dear Kalev Kallemets, please ask your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U749	Yeah, there's a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U750	There's a minute to formulate the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U751	I know. I said I'd have a longer question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U752	The question is that although we received such an answer, would it be possible to get an overview of how the proposals of the political groups have been taken into account in the work plan of the National Audit Office.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U753	Yes, but I have the law of the Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure before me, I have to comply with the law. Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U754	Thank you very much. The National Audit Office has not received any such letter concerning... I understand that you are probably referring to a letter that went to the National Budget Control Commission. [[Kalev Kallemetsa's response from the hall is not audible.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U755	I'm sorry! We do not have the possibility that a member of the Riigikogu will ask, the person in the Riigikogu will answer, and then be asked without a microphone. There's no debate here. Auditor General, please respond if you wish to proceed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U756	I will reply to just explain how this procedure is carried out in the Riigikogu and what cooperation with the National Audit Office is. In fact, every year there is a debate in the Special Committee on the control of the state budget about which topics may go to the work plan of the National Audit Office and which are not. This spring, the same question also arose at the meeting of the Special Committee on State Budget Control, where I myself was present and gave an overview of what proposals have been made recently and what proposals and in what form have come into the work plans. This debate was long enough, and members of the Special Committee on National Budget Control will probably be able to confirm it and explain what happened there. According to the laws of the Republic of Estonia, the National Audit Office has the right and competence to decide which proposals should be taken into account and which proposals should not be taken into account, and certainly the proposals in the work plan are not always visible in the form they are made. So the proposals have been taken into account and the members of the special committee have had a very clear view of the state of play. We even made a table that allows us to follow the fingertips, which proposal and in what form the work plan has come to pass.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U757	I'm sorry for interrupting. Marko Pomerants, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U758	Thanks! I have a six-minute question, but I'll ask you in a minute. Today, the oil shale conference in Jõhvi will begin, where there will be talk of balanced use of oil shale. My question is about point 216 of your report, where you say that the use of oil shale cannot continue in this way, so that we should start thinking about some new activities that men in Ida-Viru County should do. What do you think they are?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U759	Thank you. This is a question that requires, like, prediction. I don't have an overview, an impact analysis or any research into what these things are supposed to be. But common sense clearly states that if we have different estimates of 20 to 30 years of oil shale, and if oil production grows, probably for a shorter time, it is now high time to think about what sector could flourish in Ida-Viru County if oil shale is no longer mined. That was our starting point, so we wouldn't leave this thing at the last moment again, when it turns out that the oil shale is gone, and people, whether they're 24000 or some other number, are waiting for them to pick up the picks when they can do something.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U760	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U761	Thank you. Dear Auditor General! I'd like to ask you more generally. In the introduction to your presentation, you indicated that we are good with finances, balance is good and people can buy more things. But is it really a good thing, and is this a goal of growth at all costs? The reality is that for the first time we are in a situation where the next generation lives worse than the previous generation. We set a goal and make an effort, and then we fail. Is it not the case that we need to work hard not to make things so much better, but to keep them from getting much worse?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U762	Thank you. I did not quite hear the question, but I am still trying to say something in the context of this text. Our criticism, which also emerges from the report, is that the finances are in order and we can talk about structural balance for a long time, but that is not enough. That's the point of our review that finances are in order, but that doesn't mean everything's okay. We have a balanced budget, but that does not mean that the problems that have been identified in the second half of the report will disappear by themselves. This is a certain assumption, but we need to focus our finances now on what real life is and where there are real problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U763	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U764	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Auditor General, It is a pleasure to hear your seriously argued answers. On the subject of education, you have already partially responded to Mr Alli. I come back to a more serious debate, which has also been discussed in the press, i.e. how much we can assess in the field of education in terms of financial and efficiency. On the one hand, it is quite intriguing to suggest that the state, as host, take over the entire school network, make it effective, shut down some small schools. On the other hand, the National Audit Office has stated that the endless emptying of the rural area is also questionable. How can this dilemma be resolved, and what would your proposal be?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U765	Thank you for your question. Well, he's a complicated question. This same self-government reform, I cannot blame the previous Minister for Education for starting the municipal reform by setting up the upper secondary school network. You can't blame the hospitals for choosing to clean up the hospital network on their own. That is our problem, where there is a clear understanding of the country and how it should be. It has been pointed out that the municipality can cope if there are 5,000 people there. First of all, the National Audit Office does not say that this number must be 5000, and second, this does not mean that a municipality with fifty inhabitants cannot cope. If at some point all the brains get into a small realm for some reason, it works very well. We can't take everything with one ruler. I don't know what to do now or what the right model is, but there's a problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U766	Ken-Marti Vaher, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U767	Thank you, Mr President. I'm glad you're in a good mood, and you're keeping other people's positivity up with your moody lines. Thank you very much. Dear Auditor General, My question concerns the concerns that you referred to in the final part of the speech, not with sadness, but rather with a rational eye. It is precisely the government and officials who do not take the proposals and conclusions of the National Audit Office so seriously. You gave an example of an embarrassing case with the Ministry of Social Affairs, where an official with no substantive competence was sent to a parliamentary hearing with the participation of the National Audit Office. There are probably many such cases. My question is simple and this issue has actually been discussed for years. I would like to hear your opinion on how Parliament can increase the authority of the National Audit Office, make its opinions more heard and, in this sense, more influential, so that your conclusions have real results and greater impact.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U768	I think the answer was on your own question. This means that when we arrive so far that Chancellors and members of the Cabinet are feedback providers, it will certainly give feedback to the National Audit Office as well. Let's just say that not the most successful audits would come to the Riigikogu. It also clearly disciplines us that we can do even better than we do now. But there are several sides. I have another nuance to bring out. In the spring, I sent a letter to all Chancellors and also to the State Chancellery. I will read to you a few lines of this: 'I believe that it is better for everyone to have the National Audit Office to assist you with his understanding, observations and advice as the administrative head of the ministry, instead of being perceived on a number of occasions as an additional concern, problem or annoying non-life mixer. Therefore, I have a request to you as chancellors who, every day, when solving the problems of real life, perceive two worlds, acting under regulations and their lack of flexibility, and real life, their difference most of all, to help both me and the National Audit Office, so that we can be even more useful to the audited. " At the beginning of June, I sent this letter to all Chancellors and also to the State Chancellery. How many answers do you think I got? None. I did not receive any response from the ministries or from the State Chancellery to my expectations to point to the problems of how we could do our job better. But I still believe that the Chancellors will write me something if they have a little time, because I don't think everything's so good that the Chancellors don't want to write me that you're doing a very good job.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U769	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U770	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Auditor General! You're complaining about your sad fate about the letters, so I'm complaining about it. A young colleague did not have time to ask his question in a minute; I will try to manage in a minute. On 24 September, one of your colleagues or subordinates, who I think is a very intelligent and nice person, came up with a response to our group. The letter says, "Well, what else? The Auditor General has come to the Commission to explain how the work plan is being drawn up, which has been taken into account over time. And besides, it's our big reception for us to ask you a question. No one can expect any of this to be taken into account. " Now the question is: How would you feel if such an answer were to come from one of the authorities? Would it be more or less trouble?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U771	Thank you for your question. As far as I know, no such official letter has left the National Audit Office. This, which you refer to, is probably the correspondence between officials and I cannot comment on it because it is not the official position of the National Audit Office. Such a letter has not officially gone out of the National Audit Office. But I don't want to open this issue at all, because there are not many very interesting letters in my melbox. If we started discussing them all in the Riigikogu, we wouldn't have time for anything else.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U772	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U773	Thank you. It would be interesting to discuss what orders are sent to the National Audit Office from party offices. But my question concerns the public finance environment. Here we have tried rhetorically to claim that yes, we have a stagnation, but public finances are in order. According to the latest news, the European Commission's position in relation to the balance of our national budget varies widely, the difference is EUR 300 million. The State Budget Act says that the state budget must be balanced. Now we have a situation where there is a difference of EUR 300 million, and it is said that these Germans there are doing things differently than we are, going on, which is because we are a Member State of the European Union. My question is as follows: could the National Audit Office look into this matter and the external auditor give an assessment to Parliament of the objective approach to the structural balance of the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U774	Thank you very much. I also mentioned at the beginning of my speech that this is a discussion place. I have two answers here. Firstly, there is now an institution such as the independent institution of the Fiscal Council to the Bank of Estonia, which should be keeping an eye on this matter. Secondly, with this problem, we have obviously fallen into the trap of establishing rules that are actually tougher than Europe demands. Whether it is reasonable to lay down conditions that are stricter than in other parts of Europe, the National Audit Office also referred to when the basic budget law was being prepared. We are now faced with the situation that we will not be able to meet these tougher conditions if we take the European Commission's calculations. But it is certainly interesting to hear what the Fiscal Council thinks about this next year if it thinks something about the 2015 budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U775	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U776	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I was moved to ask the same question that was just put to you here by Kristen Michal. You replied that the National Audit Office had not sent such an official letter. The correspondence before me shows something else. The National Audit Office has sent this letter to the Riigikogu quite officially and an official of the Riigikogu has forwarded it to a member of the Riigikogu. The question remains, however, that if you want to be involved and you want to cooperate, how can you believe that it can be better built through the letter that is in front of me? I will not repeat what has been said again, perhaps everyone remembers, but this tone is not in any way inclusive and inclusive.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U777	Thank you very much. As I referred to in one of my responses, I do not approve of such language, whether it is official or informal, and I do not think you have heard from me this use of words. Understandably, my answer is that it doesn't help, it doesn't help. The letter goes to a member of the committee, it sends the letter to its member of the bench of the Riigikogu, then it moves on and everyone discusses it. However, the main problem remains undisputed because everyone is discussing the unpleasant use of words that have become public in the correspondence between the two officials. So it's an embarrassing case.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U778	Dear Auditor General Alar Karis, I thank you very much for your presentation and your answers. Of course, thank you also to your administration, the National Audit Office, for this review! I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Jaak Aaviksoo, representative of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U779	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, the Auditor General! After all, the annual report of the National Audit Office could, as a formalist approach, be limited to the statement that the works have been done correctly, accurately and fairly reflect the results of the financial year, and thus close the debate, just as it has been on some occasions. At the same time, the understanding that there is also another way to get, deepened in society in a wider and grateful way, also in the National Audit Office, and it seems to me, at least compared to the reaction last year and this year, that in the Riigikogu and the government as well. Of course, the attitude of coalition politicians and opposition politicians varies. And although I also praised the views of the National Audit Office last year, I said, at least with regard to the educational reform, that the Auditor General would come to me with my own vodka. In other words, the arguments by which the National Audit Office came up with last year's educational reform, or rather the reform of the educational network, were more or less the same ones that had already been taken as a basis for action in the Ministry of Education. A year later, it has to be said that the Ministry of Education did not have enough of these vodka, because the reforms should have gone much faster, at least in my best interests, and certainly also in the opinion of the Ministry of Education's official staff and many other educational friends. But the truth is that, if these reforms had still been turned against the political will that had to be taken into account in the reforms, then the political career of the then Minister of Education, at least as a member of the government, would have ended even more quickly. This is why reforms must be carried out in the light of political realities, and they are probably one of the reasons why reforms are stalling. However, there is something else that is higher and more complicated than the political or coalition facts. Something we could say that we could switch coalitions and ministers, not to mention prime ministers, but that the state's ability to solve problems still remains modest. I therefore believe that the need for reforms cannot be limited to individual areas, but must necessarily include reform of state governance. Only by a little overdoing can it be said that the current government, or rather, the government, which operates under the current rule of law and the constitution, cannot decide on any issue that falls between two ministerial chairs. Fortunately, perhaps even if the ministers are from one political party, but when it comes to coalition partners and it is not written in the coalition agreement, forget it. This complaint, or at least the thought, also concerns the Riigikogu, because the Riigikogu's capacity to process inputs is, unfortunately, limited to 101 members of the Riigikogu. The official body of the Riigikogu is so occupied with technical work that there is little potential competence to provide reasonable advice to members of the Riigikogu. That is why I think that we should take seriously, in the coming period of government, as far as possible after the next Riigikogu elections, the reform of the state, which would concern the organisation of the Riigikogu as well as the organisation of governance, as well as the state budgeting, not to mention the reform of the local government, the reform of the European Union's subsidies and tax reform. I hope the voters agree with me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U780	Thank you. I would like to ask Kadri Simson, the representative of the Estonian Central Party Group, for a speech chair in the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U781	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Auditor General, Minister, who is probably waiting for the next item on the agenda. I came to this speech chair at this late hour, but I should say at an early hour because of the recognition for the work done by the National Audit Office. Year after year, I am increasingly embarrassed to look at the reaction that follows this annual report. How the government will not analyze the message but attack the messenger. It is certainly not a question of the identity of the Auditor General, because the same fate struck his predecessor. But when you read the report, it contains clear arguments, you have to recognise professional text editing skills and outstanding tablemaking ability. The report is understandable to professional and not to such a professional reader. If someone is monitoring our verbatim at this early hour, I will inform you that the report will be received from the website of the National Audit Office. As members of the Riigikogu, we received a message from the Auditor General that as a proper partner we should not adopt laws that are without sufficient impact assessment. Such draft laws come from time to time to this Chamber of the Riigikogu and their adoption will indeed lead to the situation that soon these laws will need to be amended. At the Riigikogu table, too, there are a number of very large draft laws concerning people, the actual impact and price of which is only hypothetical. Nevertheless, I find in the National Audit Office's report that, for example, one such reform could certainly be carried out. This does not mean that the National Audit Office is telling a lie, as some Reform Party politicians are trying to formulate it. True, many old things are mentioned year after year. They talk about what has been discussed in the previous report and talk about what both the opposition and the coalition speak about in the Chamber of the Riigikogu year after year. In some cases, the proposals of the National Audit Office are supported by some, in some cases others, mentioning only questioning the sustainability of the pension system or increasing treatment queues. We certainly do not have one view of the automatic closure of rural schools in terms of the cost of education being effective. The political parties of the Riigikogu also have distinct views on the reform of local government. But I agree with the point made by the Auditor General in his speech: broadly speaking, we should start by giving an honest assessment of the domestic economic situation. Without it, there will be no necessary reform. I have been thinking about what happened last week in the Committee on Monetary Affairs when the former Minister of Finance, Jürgen Ligi, was clearly upset. In this Chamber, too, it was evident that the involvement of the Reform Party in the report was rather modest. Perhaps the reason is that this report does not give any additional arguments for how we should be halfway to the richest five countries. On the contrary, the report shows that the situation has deteriorated in comparison with the other Baltic countries, that Estonia has already become an expensive country in European terms, but it has remained a poor country in people's minds. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U782	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U783	And now for the debate that went to the Committee on Monetary Affairs last week. We learned from the Auditor General's reply that the Ministry of Finance has counted all the figures. Thus, the situation, which should be recognised by both the government and the opposition, is as follows in terms of economic indicators. The purchasing power of Estonian people has increased by 4.1% over the last five years, but it has increased by 8.8% in Latvia and 9.8% in Lithuania. We've progressed slower than our southern neighbours. At the same time, our prices have reached the European Union's average price level much faster, or we could say that our prices have increased, while in Latvia and Lithuania they have fallen compared to the European average. In the last three years, the productivity of Estonia's workforce has not been able to catch up with the European Union average. In five years Estonia's productivity has increased by 4.4%, while in Latvia it has increased by 11.9% and in Lithuania by 12.7%. These are the figures that put the so-called success story in a very clear context and the situation where the party of the Prime Minister says that doing things right and doing things differently would be giving up the story of success. This success story, compared to Latvia and Lithuania, is not so obvious. I don't think it's worth attacking the National Audit Office, just to look at the situation, the government should also look at the situation and think about what can be done differently. In conclusion, I chose point 77 from the report, where the National Audit Office writes that, when comparing Estonia's level of development with the European Union average, the GDP per capita on the basis of purchasing power, productivity and price level, it should be noted that, at least according to these indicators, Estonia did not catch up significantly on the average of the European Union in its development last year. Latvia and Lithuania seem to have succeeded better. Instead of staying down in the competition with our southern neighbours, we should aim for an approach to the Nordic countries. However, it is essential to read the report of the National Audit Office with a broader perspective and learn from it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-12_U784	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Once again, thanks to the Auditor General, the National Audit Office and you, good colleagues who have actively participated in the debate! The 14th item is addressed.
