ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Prime Minister. We will begin the Monday session of the seventh working week of the seventh plenary session of the Riigikogu. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Mrs Heili Tõnisson, the representative of the Government of the Republic of the Speaker's Office, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U2	Madam Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching six draft laws today. Firstly, the draft law amending the Law on district heating. Secondly, the draft law on ratification of the Final Acts of the 25th Congress of the World Postal Union. Thirdly, the draft law amending the Water Act. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts when dealing with the above three draft laws. Fourthly, the draft law amending the General Part of the Environmental Code and related amendments to other laws. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Minister of the Environment, when dealing with the bill. Fifthly, the draft law amending the Law on Audit Activities and the Law on Securities Markets. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi when processing this draft law. And sixthly, the draft act ratifying the Estonian-Russian border agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Russian Federation and the agreement between the Narva and the Russian Federation on the delimitation of sea areas in the Gulf of Finland. Urmas Paet, Minister of Foreign Affairs, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia when processing this draft law in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U3	Thank you. Please, colleague Margus Tsahkna!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U4	Madam Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Committee on Social Affairs, I am pleased to present the draft law amending the Law on Medicinal Products, the Law on State Fees and the Law on the Organisation of Health Services. If you remember, last year the Supreme Court made a decision regarding restrictions on the establishment of a pharmacy. Today, the Committee on Social Affairs, with one voice, decided to initiate this legislative amendment. I hope for a fruitful debate here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U5	Thank you very much. Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! On behalf of the Central Party Group, I am handing over the draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act and the Vocational Training Institution Act. Given that at least the future of the next year and a half is currently being discussed, it is quite fitting to recall that our school lunch still costs 0.78 euros and that in the meantime schools such as state schools have come to the Estonian education system and the law on them must be clarified. The school lunch allowance for vocational education institutions should also be discussed. It is certainly not necessary to remind us how much food prices have increased in the meantime. Everyone who has had to look around the store knows well that offering a warm school lunch for 78 cents is very difficult. Consequently, we have a whole series of proposals. In particular, we want to clarify what concerns public schools, what concerns vocational education, and raise the minimum level of all school lunches to one euro and extend it to upper secondary school students. Such a simple, logical and understandable bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U7	Thank you. On behalf of the Management Board, I have adopted eight draft laws and if they comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board will decide on their procedure within three working days. Now the messages. I have forwarded the inquiry of the members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. Secondly, Prime Minister Andrus Ansip has expressed his wish to make a political statement at today's Riigikogu session. The Board of the Riigikogu agreed to this. On the basis of Article 56 (1) (9) and (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu Act, I have added Prime Minister Andrus Ansip to the agenda of today's Riigikogu meeting with a political statement. And thirdly, I would like to point out that following the announcement of the draft agenda, item No 2, i.e. the reply to the inquiry submitted by 11 members of the Riigikogu concerning age limits for dancers (No 382) has been included in the draft proposal. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 93 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 8. Ladies and gentlemen, with these improvements that I have told you, I will put this week's agenda to the vote. Please vote! 92 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U8	We are going to the agenda today, the first item of which is the political statement by Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. I'll explain how this procedure works. According to § 155 (4) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, the Management Board and Prime Minister of the Riigikogu agreed that no questions will be asked to the Prime Minister after the political statement. After the application, negotiations will be opened, during which the representatives of the political groups may speak. I would now like to ask the President-in-Office of the Riigikogu, Mr Andrus Ansip.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U9	Madam President of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! According to § 10 (3) of the Government Act, the Prime Minister must also inform the Riigikogu of the resignation of the Government of the Republic. I declare that on 4 March 2014 I announced at the session of the Government of the Republic my decision to withdraw on my own initiative pursuant to § 9 (3) of the Government Act. Consequently, on the same day, I informed the President of the Republic of Estonia of the resignation of the Government of the Republic, which I presided over, on the basis of Article 92 (2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U10	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Do the delegates of the political groups wish to participate in the negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. Mr. Prime Minister, please don't leave yet! The Riigikogu has taken note of your statement. According to the law, the resigned government will continue to operate until the new government has taken office. But I have another little thing to hand over to you. You've been Prime Minister for ten years and you've been watching this room from this side. We decided to give you a little memento for this ten-year job. [[Summing.]] Or was it nine years? I put on a year. (Andrus Ansip: 'Even nine years have not been.') (Andrus Ansip is handed over a picture of the Riigikogu hall. applause.) From now on, Mr Ansip will have the opportunity to look the other way around. (Andrus Ansip: 'I will do it. ') He will. Once again, thank you for your cooperation. Now that the festive part is over, let's start answering questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U11	Members of the Riigikogu Andres Anvelt, Kalev Kotkas, Helmen Küti, Mart Meri, Karel Rüütli, Marianne Mikko, Heljo Pikhofi, Indrek Saare, Rannar Vassilyev, Jaan Õunapuu, Urve Palo, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Kalvi Tõik, Jaak Allik, Eiki Nestori, Rainer Vakra, Rein Randver and Neeme Suur on 20 January s. An inquiry into the claims made by the Spanish daily newspaper El País concerning Estonia as the new transit country of the South American drug cartels (No 379). I would now like to ask my esteemed colleague, Mr Anvelt, to speak on the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U12	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, On 20 January, in the Group of the Social Democratic Party, we prepared an inquiry for the Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher. I'd like to correct one of the typing errors I discovered in the text of this inquiry. Indeed, instead of 17 February, the first line must be on 17 January 2014, when one of Spain's largest national daily newspapers, El País, was referred to in the Estonian press. I hope that fingering wasn't the reason we had to wait months for an answer. But this pretty prestigious big daily newspaper passed on the words of Alberto Hart, adviser to the Peruvian Commission on drug-free development and life, that the Baltic countries, including Estonia, have become the new transit country of the South American drug cartels in Europe. I can't believe it if I didn't read about El País with an interpreter. This serious accusation, which undermines our international reputation, was also substantiated by the statement that the number of drug mules seized in Peru and from Estonia has increased considerably in recent years. There have been isolated cases in South America from time to time, as we know from the media. The last case, of which I am sure you have all read, concerns two young Estonian girls who must carry more than eight years of imprisonment in Peru. The same article also described in great detail how this whole thing works, how a drug is produced. So apart from Alberto Hart, whose quote was in the paper, the journalist had worked hard. Estonia has acceded, as we know, to the United Nations Convention against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances of 20 December 1988 in Vienna. It sets us very high standards in the fight against drugs, as does our membership in Interpol and Europol. That is why we in the Group decided to ask the Minister for the Interior five questions on the same subject, either to confirm or to reject these quite serious claims. We know what the turnover of the South American drug cartels is and what the consequences for both the economy and crime could lead to the emergence of such organised crime in one part of the world or another. I would ask the Minister for the Interior to answer these questions and, if that is not an inconvenience, to read the questions so that those who are here may be better watched. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U13	Thank you very much, Mr Anvelt. Ken-Marti Vaheri, the esteemed Minister of Home Affairs of the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U14	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Thank you very much for your questioning. There are five questions. I'll start with the first one. The first question is: 'What is the position of the Ministry of the Interior regarding the corresponding statement by the Peruvian official? Do the Estonian law enforcement authorities have data to confirm or refute the validity of the claims made by the Peruvian official? ' The press statement made in the inquiry that the delivery of drugs to Europe in South America would be a new major trade route through the Baltic countries, from which drugs move on to more attractive markets in Western Europe, according to the Ministry of the Interior, is unfounded and not true. We have not received such data either through international communication channels or from our law enforcement authorities. This would already be unlikely geographically and logistically because Estonian airports and ports have no direct connection to Peru. This situation significantly increases the risk of detection and thus reduces the chances of obtaining criminal proceeds. The analysis of drug trafficking should also take into account the fact that there is no point in transporting cocaine from Spain, Portugal or France to Estonia in transit and transit, in order to then, again risking, to return it to Western Europe. Based on analyses carried out by the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction, the entry points for South America to the European market are some Western European countries. There is no mention of the Baltic States, but it is clear that the increase in the share of cocaine from South America in European countries is worrying. Question 2: 'Has the Estonian law enforcement authorities turned to their Peruvian partners through international channels for cooperation, such as Interpol, to explain the content, validity and extent of the accusations? The Interpol channel is not intended to confirm or disprove generalized claims published in the press, but to exchange specific police information. Therefore, there has been no Interpol inquiry into the journalistic case addressed in the enquiry. Peru and Estonia have cooperated in drug crime in various ways. An example is the case of cocaine hidden in a cog a few years ago, as well as cocaine collectors who have been detained in Peru. The Central Criminal Police have also occasionally turned to Peru to determine the extent of the charges against individual detainees. Question 3: "What is the role of confiscation of narcotic drugs in the overall picture of the spread of narcotic drugs in our respective criminal proceedings in the region (Peru and its neighbouring countries)? ' Since the cocaine market in Estonia is relatively marginal and, in a global context, the quantities found by the criminal police are really extremely small, it is not possible to identify the countries of origin for each quantity found. In recent years, cocaine levels are repeatedly lower than those of amphetamine, marijuana, GHB and other narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances. Cocaine was seized 34 times in 2011 and 800 grams in total; 49 times in 2012 and approximately 3.5 kilograms in total, and 47 times last year, a total of approximately 1.8 kilograms. Question 4: "What is the number of arrests in Peru and in South America (including Mexico), and what is the trend in recent years? " As far as the Ministry of the Interior is aware, the number of cocaine smuggled in Peru has been stable over the last three years, with the number of people detained in Estonia three times as compared to 2010, and the same can be said for other Latin American countries. In 2010, six Estonians were imprisoned in Peru; in 2011, 2012 and 2013 two people, as well as some in a few other countries, such as Trinidad and Tobago in 2013. Thus, this statistics do not support the claim of one Peruvian official that Estonia's role in global cocaine smuggling has increased. And at the moment, we have no record of all the foreigners detained in Peru. And the last question: 'What steps is the Ministry of the Interior planning to take to respond to the serious accusations of the Peruvian official and to improve Estonia's reputation as an alleged drug transit country? ' Control of drug crime is one of our priorities, and we have also discussed it several times in this Chamber in recent years. Last time we discussed this during the debate on developments in security policy only the week before last. I dare say that the likely erroneous statement of this one official in Peru does not outweigh the years of cooperation and effective action by our legal guardians in this area. And this cooperation is, above all, international, because it is the only way to organise action against drug trafficking. With regard to the procedural capacity of the criminal police, there has been a significant increase over the last three years in both the acquisition of the payroll fund and the acquisition of special equipment. This year, the payroll fund of the DEA increased by at least 10%. There is certainly a need to talk about confiscation of the proceeds of crime. Most of the proceeds of crime are seized in drug trafficking cases. The Criminal Income Identification Office, which has been acting as the central office of the Central Criminal Police for two years now, is dealing with serious covert crimes such as drug trafficking. The membership of this office has been increased, with a total of about 20 people now working there. Top experts have been recruited to be able to cooperate with the Tax and Customs Board, for example, to identify the proceeds of crime, who can also prevent drug trafficking in Estonia. It is also important that, in recent years, we have involved law enforcement and border guards of the Police and Border Guard Board in order to achieve better results, to detect possible channels for drug trafficking. Since the beginning of 2012, there is a clear objective to try to break down networks of street trafficking. On a purely tactical level, there's an operative group of the DEA operating in the North Prefecture and the Eastern Prefecture in the second half of last year. Five street operations have been carried out in the Prefecture of the East in 2013, and even more in the Prefecture of the North. In general, the prevention of drug trafficking is a priority and international cooperation is indeed important. I think that attention must also be paid to such cases when one country or another is confused with someone in some media publication in the world. In this sense, I certainly thank you for this question and for this discussion in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U15	Thank you very much, Minister of the Interior. Looks like you don't have any questions. Thanks again. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U16	We will go to the next question: the members of the Riigikogu Ester Tuiksoo, Lauri Laas, Urbo Vaarmanni, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Yana Toomi, Peeter Võsa, Mailis Repsi, Tarmo Tamme, Valeri Korbi, Mikhail Stalnukhin and Viktor Vassiliev on 27 January. a request for information on the age limits imposed on dance parties (No 382). Ester Tuiksoo, colleague of the speaker's desk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U17	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Dear Minister, Indeed, in January, the members of the Central Party Group submitted an inquiry to the Minister of Culture regarding the age limits of older folk dancers attending the song festival. First of all, this decision has been made by the Estonian People's Dance and Folk Music Society, or rather its mentoring council. For what reason and why such a decision has been made, we ask the Minister for Culture five questions and ask him to explain it. I'm sure we'd like to ask for more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U18	Thank you very much, Mr Tuiksoo. I would now like to ask the Minister for Culture to speak on the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U19	Good afternoon, President of the Riigikogu. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I'm glad you're asking about the age limits for dances. I am happy to answer all five questions. The first question: 'The age limit for women groups at the dance party was set at 60 years and for mixed groups at 65 years. Why these age limits and what's the difference between two dance groups? " First of all, I personally consider it right and fair that everyone can dance at a song and dance, regardless of age. It makes sense for participants to be selected on the basis of pre-studies and dance skills. I'll tell you right now, that's exactly what it is. However, on the subject of the age of the participants at the dance, I have approached the Estonian Song and Dance Festival Foundation in order to find out exactly how such a public theme setting has developed and whether it is true that the participants at the dance are still subject to an age limit. I received confirmation from the organisers of the Song and Dance Festival that there was no such restriction. The only criterion for getting to a party is the level of dance skills. But in order for you to understand better the information noise that has reached the public, I'm going to explain to you a little bit the conditions for getting to the dance. These conditions are set for all groups. The primary responsibility is, of course, to learn about the dance programme. People dancers know that they have agreed to divide dance groups into categories, or species. The purpose of this division is to select a repertoire suitable for groups for different dances. Children's groups are defined by school classes, such as the dance groups of grades 3-4 and 5-6, etc., up to primary school. Professionally, as I said, they are called group species. Adult groups are divided into groups: groups A, B, C, D and N. Groups A form "choice groups', which are highly experienced and highly artistic representative groups, groups B are adult groups, groups C are young people (both upper secondary school students and students), group D is seniors and group N is female dancers. These categories are taken into account not only in large national dances, but also in regional, men's, women's and other dances. The requirement you refer to, honourable questioners, is the recommended average age of the dance group, defined within each category of dance group. The groups are also subject to other requirements for access to the party, such as the composition and size of the groups, the existence of folk clothing and, in particular, a properly acquired repertoire. The Estonian Song and Dance Festival Foundation as well as the dance leaders have assured me that no one is excluded from the dance due to age. Here I quote Aet Maatee, Head of the Estonian Song and Dance Festival Foundation: 'We once again confirm that all groups dance in front of the repertoire and that the criterion for access to the party is properly acquired and danced repertoire. ' The second question: 'The organisers of the dance are accused of the lack of involvement of dancers and the lack of communication when discussing the issue of age limits and adopting a decision to that effect. Why were people's dancers not involved in making such an important decision that directly affects them? ' Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I agree that asking people for an opinion on these issues is very important and can always be done better. But in this case, I am not evaluating anyone's actions, but I am describing how decisions concerning dance groups have been made. The Estonian Society of Folk Dance and Music, which coordinates the joint activities of almost 1300 folk dance groups, is involved in promoting the field of folk dance. A round table was held in Tallinn on 14 April 2012, with the participation of the mentoring council of the Estonian People's Dance and Traditional Music Society, the artistic panel of the dance festival and representatives of the county dance leaders, who based each category on the real situation in the category they manage and formulated even clearer descriptions of dance groups. As you can understand, this is the wishes of the Estonian Folk Dancing and Folk Music Society, which is the centralist of organising and guiding the dance movement, rather than the wishes of the organisers of the dance. It should also be said that all the changes considered necessary were also discussed with the representations of the artistic panel and county dance leaders of the dance festival. I think it's better than the dancers, the instructors, the directors themselves decide how to organise life in the field of dance. The Ministry shall not interfere in such decisions or choices. It should be noted that a hundred dancers with great experience participated in the specification of the group species. The third question: 'Leaving away from the dance because of your old age can be offensive and especially for those people who have been dancing all their lives. What is your assessment of the age limits for dances as Minister of Culture? ' I once again assure you that there is no age limit for dancers, so it is difficult for me to judge what is not. But if you ask me if I consider it appropriate to impose such a restriction, I will say that I do not consider it right. As I pointed out in the answer to the first question, the folk dance, as we know, is a party of joy and of our deep folk culture traditions, and a certain age must not reduce the chances of getting to the dance and the dancer. I personally know dancers who have been outnumbered by over 70 for years, but who are looking out for the younger half of themselves. I quote here a well-known saying that I have not come up with myself: youth is a gift from nature, old age is an artwork. It's a shame that such a distraction has arisen. I think those people who were affected by this misleading misunderstanding deserve a sincere apology. Question 4: 'We talk a great deal about lifelong learning, raising the retirement age and keeping the elderly in the longer labour market. So it's as if the elderly are fit for employment, but it seems not to be a part of a folk party. Don't you see the mismatch here? ' Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I do not see a mismatch when all dancers are invited to the dance, but the truth is that to get to the party, you must, of course, learn the plan properly. While talking about the age of folk dancers, as the people's lives grow and health improves, we will probably see even more mature dancers at dance parties in the future, and that's great. Question 5: 'The impression remains that the organisers of the dance do not want to find solutions to increase the participation of those wishing to participate in the dance. The smallness of the dance court etc. will be used as an excuse. What can the state do to ensure that no folk dance group that has acquired a good dance repertoire should be left out of the party? " At the moment, everything has been done to prepare the Song and Dance to ensure that there are as many survivors as possible and that there are as few outsiders as possible. For example, even a new type of adult dance group, B2, has been included. These are groups of adults with little dance experience. This step opens the way for newcomers to the dance. The organisers also hope that this will alleviate a little increasing competition among women's groups. Of course, women's dancers will have to find partners. Dance-loving men are welcome and at high value at the dance. Women's groups are the most numerous category ever, and they take dancers to the party twice as many as other categories. It is also true that the number of participants in the singing and dance has been limited to the total number. Nearly 38000 participants are ready to receive a singing arc and a dance court in the current infrastructure, as well as Tallinn school buildings as accommodations, dining places, transport. The maximum limit for both participants and audiences was reached at the 2009 Song and Dance Festival. Raising this border would entail security and logistics risks for both the participants and the audience. It is true that the creation of a new dance field is an ongoing issue, which needs to be addressed. However, this is only one part of the problem as a whole. As we know, organizers of big events always have limits somewhere. Just as the stadium is at one point out of spectators' seats, participants need to take into account both the specifics of the dance party that have been established over decades, as well as the reception capacity of accommodation and transport. Organisers must ensure the safety of both participants and spectators, organise proper accommodation, catering, transport, etc. So it is still a question of human resources and also of scope. As far as the role is concerned, this is primarily the preservation and transfer of our cultural traditions to new generations, the continuation and preservation of the UNESCO World Heritage List tradition and the voluntary movement of dance and song. I think that keeping this tradition is a very important task. But I don't think it's right that the country starts writing down song and dance scenarios or changing established traditions. I would like to remind you here that the singing and dance are going to be 1/6. July. Over several years, 20 symphony orchestras have been involved in dance and song festivals. Thank you very much for these questions and for the opportunity to clarify this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U20	Thank you very much, Madam Minister for Culture. But my colleague, Esther Tuiksoo, still wants to ask you something else.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U21	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much for these very beautiful and good answers on this embarrassing subject. I really hope that these explanations will also reassure our youthful but somewhat older folk dancers. After hearing today's answers, I would like to ask whether you have also informed the parties concerned that such embarrassing information would no longer be leaking out to the public or among folk dancers or in other areas where we are talking about lifelong learning and so on. We do not want such an insult to be repeated in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U22	Thank you, Mrs. Tuiksoo! The Ministry has not sent out any information directly. I very much hope that this information will spread with regard to your questioning today. If necessary, we'll do it. Today, I just called some people in the county to check on the organisation of cultural life and asked if this confusion had somehow led to any setbacks. I have been assured of the tone of Saaremaa's example that when you register dancers no obstacles have occurred due to age, everyone has been able to register. This whole question may have been information noise. If anyone else has any doubts as to whether a mature person will in any way prevent dancing, I'm sure the Song and Dance Party Foundation will deal with getting the right information to everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U23	No further questions. Thank you once again, Madam Minister. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U24	The next question is: Members of the Riigikogu Lauri Laas, Yana Toomi, Priit Toobali, Peeter Võsa, Urbo Vaarmanni and Ester Tuiksoo on 20 January. a request for information on the developments of Rail Baltic (No 378). I would like to ask my colleague, Lauri Laas, to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U25	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, Rail Baltic's idea is almost 20 years old. Already published in 1994, the "Vision and Strategies of the Baltic Sea States for 2010" reflected rail traffic crossing the Baltic States as an important element in the spatial development of the Baltic Sea region. The Rail Baltic connection is expected to take another ten years to complete. However, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications has been much more optimistic about the completion of the Rail Baltic Community. For example, in 2007, after a meeting with the Minister of Transport of Latvia, Lithuania and Poland, the Minister announced that Rail Baltic should be operational no later than five years later. During the summer of 2010, the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts said at a press conference on Rail Baltic that a train from Tallinn to Warsaw could be carried by train in about a year's time. According to the survey, the construction of a new railway in Estonia would cost approximately 950 million euros. The final price of the route will be clear after the procurement is carried out. Construction is only possible if the share of EU co-financing for the execution of the whole project is 75-85%. The share of self-financing is borne by all Baltic States themselves in the project. In total, construction costs €3.6 billion. In order to co-finance the European Union, the Baltic States must act quickly, because if the construction of Rail Baltic has not started by 2016, there is a risk of losing euro money. Siim Kallas, a fresh candidate for Prime Minister, told the Reform Party's general assembly on 2 March that he was ready to conduct a public survey of Rail Baltic and if the people feel that it does not need to be built, the project will be abandoned. With regard to the above, I will address a separate section of the last part, which I am particularly interested in. We have three questions for the Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U26	Thank you very much, Mr Laas. Now, please, Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts of the Speaker's Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U27	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu, good questioners! I will answer these three questions, but in my introductory speech I have caught some references to the different deadlines. I am simply taking this opportunity to renegotiate the background of international agreements in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. In particular, a distinction must be made between the development of Rail Baltica in the so-called three stages. The first stage of Rail Baltica, by the way, was used in the form of the name Rail Baltica, also in English, meant that, for example, the existing railway infrastructure of Tallinna-Tartu-Valga is renovated so that it is possible to travel at 120 kilometres per hour. Estonia has passed this first stage. The second phase of Rail Baltica meant that the economic worth of investing in the existing railway infrastructure should be analysed in such a way as to increase speed to 160 km/h, also on the Tartu route. The third stage of Rail Baltica, now called Rail Baltic as well as the linguists have suggested, has been discussing the construction of a new infrastructure with a European railway width from the outset, with a speed of at least 240 kilometres per hour. Your questioning is probably about Rail Baltic, the third stage of Rail Baltica. Now your specific questions. What stage is the Rail Baltic project in now? The Rail Baltic project is at the stage of the strategic assessment of county plans and environmental impacts, which Estonia started in spring 2013. According to the current timetable, one of the preferred alternatives to the route should be selected by summer 2014 and, according to the agreements, it should be ready by the end of 2015. After this, it is possible to go to the next phase of investment decisions and later to the construction phase. Exactly the same tasks have, of course, been assigned to our partners, i.e. to Latvia and Lithuania. The second question: 'How many times have you met your colleagues in Latvia and Lithuania about Rail Baltic? How far is it from the agreement on the common principles of the project? ' Almost all regular meetings of the Baltic transport ministers, but also of the Nordic and Baltic transport ministers, have been discussed by Rail Baltic in one way or another. In order not to go too far, I am specifically talking about two meetings last year, on 11 April in Riga and 16 September in Vilnius, which focused on dealing with the developments of Rail Baltic. At both meetings, we also signed joint declarations on further activities that were relevant at the time. They mainly concerned the setting up of joint ventures in 2013. As regards each Member State's own preparatory work, agreements on this subject have been signed at the end of 2011 at the preliminary stage of the environmental impact assessment of the plan. This came about after the joint AECOM survey had been completed and discussed by the governments of the Member States. These are the agreements under which cooperation is currently taking place. Finnish and Polish representatives have always been invited to all these meetings. The Vilnius Memorandum of 16 September 2013 has also been signed by Finnish and Polish ministers and a representative of the European Commission. In addition, on the basis of the 2011 agreement, the Rail Baltic Task Force, in English, has been set up at the level of senior state officials. One example is that there have been ten meetings in September 2013 and there have also been meetings in the past, depending on the intensity of the work at least once a month and perhaps even more often. The last meeting took place last week, March 5. However, it turned out that the Lithuanian delegation did not have a mandate to discuss one compromise proposal concerning the inclusion of Vilnius in the Rail Baltic route. The idea of Estonia's proposal was that the merger of Vilnius could be considered under two conditions. Firstly, Lithuania must carry out a cost-benefit analysis which must at least show the same level of profitability as the AECOM study. As an interim remark: the AECOM study has not been sent here from anywhere, but has been ordered. This was a preparatory phase for the Rail Baltic project in 2010. This study of AECOM, carried out on the basis of the joint initial mandate of the three Baltic States and the European Commission, is currently the basis for the preparatory work. In other words, in order to better address Vilnius, the same level of cost-benefit analysis is needed and should be carried out by Lithuanians. Secondly, after Vilnius's cost-benefit analysis, it should be confirmed from the European Commission that the Vilnius Community is also legally acceptable in the light of European Union legislation. It is important to know that the European Union has approved TEN-T transport corridors by means of a regulation. They are very specific, with the precision of the cities, and Vilnius is not involved in the rail corridors. The consent of the European Union is needed for this Regulation to be adjusted if necessary. Latvia also supported these proposals. The Lithuanian delegation said that they did not have a mandate to discuss this compromise proposal. There were also seven other differences of opinion in the setting-up of the joint venture. If they are to be summed up in any way without going into detail, the main issue is what the parties believe a joint venture is needed for. According to the European Commission's recommendation and international experience, the smooth development of such infrastructures requires a company that develops the whole project, invests in it, if necessary, with the help of the governments of the States Parties, and I am thinking of financial measures, and subsequently operating the system. In such a case, a single business unit is created and there is a growing possibility that the project will also be commercially viable. This has been the understanding of all parties involved. The Lithuanian Government, at least the previous government, also shared it. Today, Lithuania's position is different and it is very difficult to explain or defend it. I dare say that a difference is an intrinsic question of how to deal with joint ventures, i.e. how to build cross-border infrastructure today. The next task force meeting has been agreed by the beginning of April and ministers should meet again to resolve the remaining issues. Since you were also interested in intergovernmental communication, I would point out that the question of Rail Baltic has been discussed in one way or another at all Prime Ministers' meetings, for the last time in February. From our point of view, the creation of a joint venture is still important; it should be formed as soon as possible. According to the initial plans, the deadline for setting up the Joint Undertaking was set for the end of 2012. This agreement was in the action plan that I referred to in the intergovernmental action plan signed in 2007. We are behind this deadline, and we have also expressed concern about it. The third question: "What risks do you think Rail Baltic would be dangerous to the project? ' At international or Baltic level, there may be a risk of divergent national views and interests in developing projects. Over the last year, we have seen how difficult it can be to agree on common plans, especially when these plans are extremely specific and practical decisions need to be made. The second risk concerns the timeliness and quality of the preparatory work. By preparation, I mean an assessment of planning and environmental impact and a preliminary project. This work should be done in a high-quality manner in all Baltic countries, which would provide an opportunity to compete with the European Union's investment support by developing the project. I would like to draw attention once again to the fact that Rail Baltic can count on up to 85% of EU investment support in its investment plan if we compete with all other European Union investment projects. There are isolated exceptions, but basically we have to compete with others. In order to compete, very high-quality preparatory work must be carried out. The three countries must do the same thing and have a very clear legal body, which is the developer and investor of this project.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U28	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's get to the questions. Please, colleague Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U29	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Unlike some others, I am a convinced advocate of this project, and I think that in implementing it, Estonia will have one quick and modern additional link with Europe. We have heard about disagreements between Lithuania and perhaps other countries, but I have the impression that we have enough opponents in Estonia. A colleague in the government is quick to advance the path of the protected area, and others are demanding that the route is taken where the municipalities join against the project, etc. How much do you consider our national opposition to this project? Is there also a serious danger that Rail Baltic might not finally come?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U30	Thank you. Obviously, when the preparation of the project in Estonia became concrete, the social debate became a serious impetus and I dare say thank God. From the moment the real planning process started, where alternatives to the route had to be taken into account, the debate has started and I think it is well-needed. Two questions have emerged from it in the last year. One question is whether the route should go through Pärnu or Tartu. The government decided, based on AECOM's research, that it would make sense if the route went through Pärnu. We have based this government's position on this. I will, of course, follow the whole discussion, possibly answer questions and participate in the debate. The question of Tartu is again on the agenda. Once again, the main problem is that in the case of Tartu, the route becomes 100 kilometres longer and has its own price. The same AECOM study, with general cost-benefit analyses, as can be done in the course of such a study, gave a rather unambiguous assessment that each mile of longer road makes it more difficult to ensure the profitability of the project. In addition, I would point out that there have been such, I dare say, rather unthinkable views. Some experts have expressed the opinion that although the route through Tartu is 100 kilometres longer, it is cheaper if we try to build it using old infrastructure. Once again, technical experts believe that the existing infrastructure does not meet the needs of Rail Baltic, as it must allow speed up to 240 kilometres per hour, as I said at the beginning. In any case, a new infrastructure needs to be built, which also requires all technical safety solutions. That is why we have based our decision in the government on AECOM studies, but also on previous plans. So we're counting on the Pärnu route. The next question is about the Pärnu route. In my opinion, these discussions have gone very well. As of now, although nothing has been decided to be final, we can say that in the counties of Pärnu and Rapla, an agreement has almost been reached between one of the preferred trassial alternatives. I have also visited several places myself, as far as time has allowed, but the people of the ministry have taken part in all public debates. I'd like to disprove the common understanding of these two counties that they don't want a route to their yard. Rather, people's first slightly negative reaction is due to a lack of information. It's humanely understandable. To date, I dare say that although there are still some passages left, agreement has been reached in Pärnu and Rapla counties on a large scale. Also with these communities, with people that are somehow affected. Yes, there is certainly a need to think about compensatory measures, more practical solutions, but I think that it will certainly be possible to work through all this at the next stages. The last question concerns Harju County. There is a central problem here, to which you also referred in your question, with Nabala's nature reserve. It is understandable that if nature needs to be protected, it must be taken into account. We have very experienced experts on the national payroll who have won the procurement and who have a great deal of experience in resolving such projects. I have, in a sense, been surprised by the statements made by my colleague, the Minister for the Environment, that no matter what you do, the planned railway route in Nabala's nature reserve is out of the question. Environmental experts working with our lawyers say that such views are clearly unlawful even in a situation where the nature reserve has not yet been finalised. I'm not going to talk about this anymore. If there are any questions, we can go into the details of the state of creation of the nature reserve and what questions it raises from the point of view of "potential consumers." But I think it may be a stand-alone precedent, which should be dealt with much more seriously in this Chamber and also in the Rail Baltic Support Group. Now, on the basis of my peasantry wisdom, I do not see any restrictions on nature conservation that would prevent Nabala from carrying out this railway line in the field of nature conservation. No natural value would be damaged. That is the position of our experts. In some ways, the Ministry of the Environment is surprised by such a radical view that Nabala is out of the question, so go somewhere else. But I hope that this work will continue, that solutions must be sought.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U31	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U32	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. European Commissioner Siim Kallas has expressed the opinion that a public survey could be conducted on the necessity of Rail Baltic construction. I ask you: how reasonable do you, as Minister, consider this question to be, and is that even possible in time?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U33	I have been thinking about this in 2009 and 2010 when we were doing the AECOM survey. This discussion was quite abstract, but it was also open from time to time. In my opinion, it is advisable to carry out public surveys or ask for the opinion of the people when society is clearly polarised. At the moment, I dare to say, on the basis of public opinion, that the Estonian public is rather very supportive of this project. For this reason, I think the public poll would be too much.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U34	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U35	Thank you, Madam Chairman. My colleague, Tarmo Tamm, has asked my question, but I'm going to ask you a little bit more. You yourself, based on the wisdom of the peasant, said that the Estonian peasant never wanted a railroad. There is a great deal of information in Kunda about how peasants fought the railroad. If the tsar hadn't done the railway in St. Petersburg with the help of power and landlords, it wouldn't have been. I think that there is no need for a public survey, but, as an engineer, the problems should be discussed, both technical and economic. And when the money's given, we'll do it. What do you think of that attitude?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U36	Basically, I share that view. I certainly consider it necessary, without any pathetics, that the project be carried out in a transparent manner. It concerns a very large number of people, a very large number of regions. It is important that we find the time and answer the questions of the people specifically affected by this project. And I think that's the job we've been doing over the last year. I very much welcome those active people who have formed a relevant non-profit organisation. They contribute very much to positive optimization on the one hand. In addition, they are certainly good communicators, interacting with even the most common people who live in one region or another. Such a public debate, raising questions, expert answers, as well as the presence of highly professional engineers who have experience in developing such new infrastructures, all this is essential. It is not easy for us to find such engineers. Today, the country is partnered with a team of so-called Swedish-based engineers who have quite good experience in building railway infrastructure. We need people who have real experience, who simply do not write down any ideas about rail infrastructure. We have these people now and, of course, they must also be more involved in the next stages. The same joint venture we are talking about should involve the contracting authority's engineers who are able to implement this project. So we've been thinking about these things.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U37	Please, my colleague Lauri Laasi!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U38	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I too am a convinced supporter of this project. Although I have been critical of some of the things you have done in your ministry over the course of time, I would like to congratulate you on this project and congratulate you on the way you have done this. But I also want to ask. There are many examples of Estonia's recent history that because of some rare tree or animal species, important investments are not made and the objects that benefit the people are not built. Could it be that because of the nature reserve in Nabala, which was mentioned here, these investments in the European Union could be lost, and we could lose something again?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U39	I can say that this is an open question in Estonia. It is probably possible to solve the problem if experts are able to speak to experts. In this sense, experts with experts are that there may be some natural values that, for the sake of Estonian law and, for my sake, also European rules and concern for the future, need to be protected. Experience with larger projects.• Saaremaa Bridge preparation works and many other such projects.. shows that expert environmental experts are able to find solutions that do not exclude compensatory measures. I believe in the environmental experts who are currently preparing an environmental impact assessment for the country. I have had myself thoroughly explained to myself what natural values might be at risk. I must admit that, as most likely for several people in this Chamber, it is surprising to me, too, that the speed and radicality of how this nature reserve is now formed and, above all, how it is opposed to the railway corridor. I hope the experts get these things straightened out.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U40	Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U41	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! If the distance doesn't exceed a thousand kilometres and there's a choice of flying an airplane or a high-speed train, I prefer the high-speed train. I have a certain experience, I prefer the train for a number of reasons. But a few times I've run into a situation where a choice has to be made according to the price. In fact, a first - class ticket on a high - speed train can cost almost as much as an airline ticket, although it takes a few hours more to drive. Has it been taken into account what, for example, the ticket price of the future high-speed train and the same route in Tallinn? Have such calculations been made?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U42	Thank you. The current basis is still the AECOM study, which also contains additional material for possible timetables and prices. It is quite clear that during the development of this project a number of studies of this kind are still being carried out, including demand studies, whether the number of passengers has not been overestimated as to whether trade flows have not been overestimated. Such infrastructure projects will have to be subject to several revisions. There is currently a plan to order a much more accurate cost-benefit analysis, and after three countries have done their home preparation work, these issues also need to be dealt with. That's another thing. Wise people with experience say that in Europe, infrastructure usually does not belong to an existing reality, but creates a new reality. I can give an example, although this does not apply exactly to this infrastructure, but it is good. We are connecting the ship between Tallinn and Helsinki, which passenger flow it has generated. 20 years ago, there were perhaps 100,000 passengers a year, and now 9 million passengers travel between Tallinn and Helsinki. I wouldn't underestimate that. That's what I don't think of you, a respected questioner, to why take a train to Berlin or Warsaw, if that's what a plane is for. I would not underestimate the importance of this project in regional terms either. From Estonia's point of view, a better connection with Riga and why not also with Lithuanian cities will certainly promote the development of economic activity, tourism and movement of people, if the quality of the connection is the same as it is today. It is certainly also of regional importance within the Baltic States.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U43	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U44	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, Are you saying that the option of Tartu is completely out of the question and that the direction of Pärnu has already been decided? And you said there were agreements with Rapla and Pärnu County, but what about Harjumaa?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U45	Once again, we are talking today about Rail Baltic infrastructure, which must enable trains to travel at a speed of 240 kilometres per hour. The current government decision based on AECOM studies is that the route should go through Pärnu, as it would then be 100 kilometres shorter. This certainly does not mean that South Estonia has no train connection at all. In my opinion, we could discuss within Estonia whether there are some so-called compensatory measures in case train connections in South Estonia are deteriorating and Pärnu's competitiveness is increasing. These measures certainly include the same Tartu-Riga better association. This infrastructure, which was between Tartu and Valga in 2007, had to be dismantled because there were no railways. We have fixed this and are planning to increase the speeds between Tallinn and Tartu over the next three years. Of course, we should look at other ways of improving connectivity in South Estonia, but not at the cost of questioning the profitability of the Rail Baltic project. What does 100 kilometers of additional railroad mean? That means, say, spending in the order of half a billion euros, i.e. 500 million euros. This is a very large amount of money, even in the case of such a grand project. For Harjumaa, I must have answered the last question. There's a problem with the nature reserve and its connection. The current situation is that, on the proposal of local governments and communities, we have also considered those options that require an alternative railway corridor in the Tallinn route. I hope that, by the end of April, these additional proposals will also be analysed, which will prevent the path from passing through the proposed nature reserve. It is necessary to analyse the environmental impacts, as well as the social and economic impacts. After that, these alternatives will reach the decision-makers, or government table.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U46	Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U47	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. I am asking about the position of Lithuania and the positions of the Lithuanian Government. There has been a great deal of criticism from us towards the Lithuanians. At the same time, their concern is much greater than our concern, either to establish a route from here to there or from there to a protected area. They have concerns that Vilnius cannot be connected to the route, that distance is 100 kilometres. In Lithuania, there is also the problem that they already have Rail Baltic 1, EUR 300 million have put them down there, and this allows them to travel 120 kilometres per hour. We would like Rail Baltic 2 to be able to travel at least 200 kilometres per hour. At the same time, we know that the situation ahead of Poland is that, if it goes very well, there maybe the train will start driving at 100 or 120 kilometres per hour. In fact, the Lithuanians thus have a number of arguments. Why are we so critical? Why don't we try to help them?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U48	I do not agree with this criticism. Everything depends on the point of view. I think it is very good that the inquisitor who referred this question reminded me of history. This background is also very important in this discussion. We are talking today about Rail Baltic's 'third stage', an infrastructure of 240 kilometres per hour. It's very important. When we start talking about the speed of trains at 120 kilometres per hour, this is already guaranteed in Estonia. But if I come back to transport and why not political agreements that have become increasingly detailed over the years in cooperation with experts, we are talking about the third stage of Rail Baltic and the speed of 240 kilometres per hour. That's one. Secondly, as far as the Vilnius Community is concerned, it is understandable that views may change over time. But I would point out that all the decisions that have been taken so far on the basis of which this project is based are the agreements between the three Baltic States, up to the location of the route and the corresponding regulations of the European Union. These changes have come during the last year-and-a-half. You can also understand changes in attitudes. When logical arguments are put forward, there are grounds for discussing these issues. We've always been constructive. If Vilnius is an important issue, it must be discussed. But it should be discussed at the same level as we have been developing this project over the last five years. As I said, for Vilnius, cost-benefit analyses should be carried out at the same level as the AECOM study. First of all, that's how we get new numbers. Secondly, Lithuanian colleagues should negotiate with the European Commission how it is viewed from the point of view of financing agreements. The third point, you mentioned the Polish question. I absolutely do not agree that Poland is a problem at all. The Polish Government has made it very clear that these investment priorities include investment in rail to the Warsaw-Poland-Lithuania border to increase speed up to 160 kilometres per hour. In view of the development of the Polish railway, this is not a priority for the Poles, but a priority for political reasons and at the request of the three Baltic States. The Prime Minister of Poland, Mr Tusk, also confirmed when he was in Tallinn that it was in their investment plans and that they were going to invest. Poland's experts have always said that if the railway reaches the point where the infrastructure of 240 kilometres per hour has been decided, then Poland will certainly look for additional investment opportunities. I have no reason to think they won't. In this sense, I do not think that waving a Polish card is fair to the Poles.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U49	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U50	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I'd like to be more specific. You were talking about setting up a joint venture. Is there an option where private capital comes into play, or is it impossible?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U51	This is not impossible at the stage when the joint venture has been set up and has reached the investment phase. If investment in infrastructure is commercially viable, why not also offer it to the'markets'. As I said earlier, both Polish and Finnish representatives have always participated in the meetings of the project working groups. In all the memorandums on the project in principle, we have also declared the participation of the governments of Poland and Lithuania in the joint venture, if they have any interest in it. It is clear that this interest is currently not specific enough to discuss it with potential investors. There are very many doubts that this infrastructure will be cost-effective. If we are serious about this project, we are always thinking about how Estonia can fulfil its obligation as a capital investment, how we can do so. According to current economic indicators, the Estonian government can do so if a joint venture is created, which is creditworthiness and can place debt capital in railway infrastructure. However, the governments of the States Parties must provide sufficient equity and possibly other financial guarantees. At the moment, we need to take into account the minimum composition of shareholders. As the project progresses, such issues can be addressed more specifically. But generally there is no dogma or reason why private capital should not be involved.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U52	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U53	The next and last question is Priit Toobali, Kalev Kallo, Enn Eesmaa, Peeter Võsa, Vladimir Velmani, Valeri Korb and Mikhail Stalnukhini, members of the Riigikogu, on 27 January s. a request for information on the proliferation of computer malware in Estonia (No 381). I would like to ask my colleague Kalev Kallo of the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U54	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, In mid-January this year, the State Information System Authority and the police were informed that malware called CryptoLocer had reached Estonia, making the data permanently unreadable on the computer. According to Triin Nigul, Information Security Expert of the National Information System Agency, it is not possible to unlock a computer infected with malware without a criminal, as the rescue encryption key is located on the control server of the cybercrime. The fact that someone controls and directs what we do online is not the first case. In 2011, shortly after the Riigikogu elections in Estonia, the United States of America reportedly discovered malware called DNS Changer, resulting in at least 4 million computers in about 100 countries as of 8 November 2011. According to the US, this program allowed its administrators to control Internet settings for infected computers, which allowed them to manipulate Internet users. It has also been pointed out that the programme allowed people to be directed to the pages and addresses designated by malware administrators or to block users from visiting certain websites, as well as to replace the content visible to the user on the websites. In order to avoid detection, the attack property had been provided with a feature that prevented computers from accepting antivirus software or operating system updates that would have detected the attack property and ceased to function. As an e-state, Estonia has built up its own operation to a large extent to use the Internet and computers. We are talking here not only about national registers or ID cards, but also about elections and banking. There is no news to anyone about the fact that sometimes accounts have been emptied with someone else's hand. At the end of last year, a study commissioned by the National Information System Agency was completed, where Estonia is encouraged to introduce reinforced solutions for the protection of data on ID cards in the coming years. According to the specialists, the NSA is now able to crack our data-security system in just a few hours. One of the main objectives of the state must be to ensure that people feel secure. The above threatens the security of Estonia and it has created a secret back door to control our country. We therefore have four questions for the Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U55	Thank you very much, Mr Kallas. Once again, I ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U56	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable questioners! I will answer your four questions. First of all, how are vital services such as registers or the use of an ID card, banking and also e-election voting for protected people? " A few words about cyber security. First of all, ensuring cyber security in both the digital world and the physical world is a continuous process. It's not something that's been done once and that's how it's gonna be. Cybersecurity depends not only on technology but also on organisations and people implementing technology. On the one hand, critical service providers and public authorities responsible for key systems will do everything in practice to prevent incidents. For example, system owners themselves need to check on a regular basis the continuity, integrity and confidentiality of systems. Alongside the prevention of incidents, the ability to react and re-enactment will also be ensured on a regular basis in case an incident occurs. The central platform for the security of national databases and information systems is comprehensive security standards, their implementation and, of course, effective monitoring. We have a rule that all solutions based on national databases must be based on the ISKE security standard. Banks and private companies use sector-specific security standards. The second issue of security concerns the person himself. To be safe, a person must also make sure that three things are followed. First of all, that computer software is suitable for the scope of use of antivirus software is usually sold in conjunction with the relevant equipment and associated software. Secondly, that all applications and operating systems are updated on computers and smartphones. And the third security clue is that every person has to keep their ID card, cell phone passwords and PIN codes only to their own knowledge. The same password must not be used in multiple environments at the same time. These are, in fact, three simple rules, and when a person obeys them, he is already in a much safer situation in cyberspace. You can't be careless about that. The second question: 'How many computers have been discovered in Estonia, reportedly infected by DNS Changer's malware, which prevented the reception of antivirus software? ' Estonian authorities have not reported computers infected with DNS Changer. That means exactly that the authorities have not been reported. Everyone can have a computer at home, and information about the infection may not reach the authorities. Although, in view of our cyber community and the close exchange of information in this area, information may also be expected to reach out from the computer to the authorities of the consumer. If someone who has a computer at home turns to an IT specialist for help, information about a unique or simply novel malware in the world will also reach the national authorities. For now, we can say that we have not received any information about the malware you referred to. By us, I mean the State Information System Authority, but also the police. Question 3: 'Estonia is increasingly directing its people to the use of online e-government services. What is being done to protect people's home computers from programs where even antivirus is not helping? 'As I said, the country doesn't go home to see how it uses its computer. Of course, each person's own responsibility must be stressed, and it is therefore very important that people are sufficiently aware. State attention must be given to raising awareness of security behaviour. The safety of the Internet is already introduced to children from low ground through teachers and schools, as well as in institutions through wider campaigns, such as SA Watch the World Wisely on the Internet. For information to the Riigikogu, in autumn 2013, we started a project called Smart Defence with the private sector, i.e. the Watch World Foundation. The aim of this project is, above all, to establish a common front for the protection of secure cyberspace, and it is specifically aimed at raising the awareness of the common user. We have confirmed the country's information society strategy for the next six years and I dare say that the country has provided enough money for this in cooperation with private companies. Question 4: How safe is it to use both new and old ID cards? ' ID-card and mobile-ID are the safest of possible solutions for both electronic identification and digital signature. These are solutions that have served us well since 2001. During this period, technology has been gradually modernised, but all these steps are proactive. In order to be safe, we need to be one step ahead of the risks. And just as it is important that ID cards, as well as X-Road, are elements of the basic infrastructure of e-social society. The state must invest constantly in the operation and development of these systems. Again, I am pleased to announce that for the next seven years, we have specifically provided for the security of key infrastructure elements, including the ID card and mobile ID software upgrades. A total of EUR 500000 is foreseen for each year, i.e. EUR 3,5 million over seven years. We need to be sure that the basic infrastructures are accompanied by technological developments and that the state guarantees this money.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U57	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's get to the questions. Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U58	Thank you. Minister, the evil languages claim that this DNS Changer was written by programmers from Estonia, IT specialists. The United States has allegedly called for their extradition in order to punish them, but it has been dragging on for several years. Can you explain why this is so?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U59	Thank you. I have no information that it is written in Estonia and that an extradition request has been made against these people. I don't have that kind of information, but I might not know because it's a police job. However, I take this opportunity to point out once again that any distribution of malware is a criminal offence in Estonia. The production and distribution of malware is also a crime. This must certainly be borne in mind by all, including very talented IT people.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U60	No further questions. Thank you very much. I have a feeling they want to negotiate. Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U61	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, There's not much here. When this inquiry was completed and I signed it, I just had an interest in such questions, I didn't know more than what it said. After that, I've been talking to a couple of IT specialists. The names of people who have taken part in writing this program are even known. These have been very talented mathematicians in their youth, after talented IT specialists. The question is, this DNS Changer isn't really some kind of virus or malware, because everyone on whose computer it got it on their own. I.T. folks are hovering at it because it's probably from some porn site. This process is so that the person keeps blinking and being asked whether we go there or go there, and so on. At a great moment, he realizes that he needs to answer yes or no. He says yes and he gets it in his computer. Allegedly, this is why it stretches so long in Estonia that it is a legal activity. Nobody illegally climbed into an alien computer. Anyone who agreed to this took it for himself. But why did I come here? Not just to tell you these half-life stories, but because there are hundreds and thousands of people who can break into any system. There is no secure system when we are talking about voting on the Internet, for example. It's a myth that something can be protected. We have offered it several times and, after all, we could solve this problem someday. For example, we put out a bonus and promise to break into the voting system in one week. Well, let's see how many people around the world break into it to make some kind of knucklehead out of it. I think there'll be dozens, if not hundreds.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U62	Thank you very much, Mr Stalnukhin. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U63	Ladies and gentlemen, Anyone who wishes to register for an appearance in a free microphone, please do so after my hammer strike! Now Mikhail Stalnukhin came first.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U64	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Now I have a little more serious and more important than the previous one. Last Wednesday, when I introduced an inquiry, I said that this topic was more important than what we discussed at the time, perhaps the events in Ukraine. I think that's it. I received some additional material from the City Government of Narva, which describes how the distribution of money took place in time and in fact. I would remind you that the government announced that it would be possible to get up to EUR 600000 for road repair and that 15% self-financing would have to be insured. It was in the public interest. In a city where the Estonian border is crossed, where there are many cars coming from abroad or travelling abroad, it is clear that the municipality must be able to repair not only its own revenues. It's kind of weird when a country's task is carried out, a border crossing is organised, but you have to be repaired for your money. So on 18 November, the state proposed to Estonian municipalities. I'm not gonna read it, I'm gonna take a long time. Those municipalities that pass through state roads can apply for money. As early as 18 December last year, the City Government of Narva submitted an application to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, which allowed the Ministry to choose an object. This is a total of five items with a total repair cost of EUR 4,9 million. Some 250,000 square feet of road cover should be repaired. The Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Council quickly decided on each project to secure co-financing from its own revenue. It's a completely inadequate activity that I just can't appreciate. There are hardly any local governments in Estonia other than Tallinn that are more affected by transit journeys than Narva. Considering our territory and the length of the roads, the concentration is enormous. Every year, 70,000 heavy goods vehicles pass through our city and across the city. Some small municipalities, compared to us, receive a full sum of EUR 600000. Narva will receive EUR 155000 to repair a small section that does not really need transit. The reason the Government of the Republic comes out of this is ridiculous. Unfortunately, I can't read it again, but what they're referring to is just mockery. Without will, the question arises as to whether this is true, and whether this is really the way European money is going around, it is being used to solve domestic policy problems. It's like some municipalities are worth the money, others aren't. Why? It's not because the population of these municipalities supports a party that's not a government favor, is it? In any case, this is a very serious problem and I will talk about it. It is simply not possible for us to continue to manage, if this is how it will happen, so that where money is needed, it will not be given, and where it is not really needed, it will be put there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U65	Thank you very much. Please, my colleague Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U66	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, 79 years ago, the V Women's Congress of Estonia was held. This Friday, March 7, there was a VI, a historic congress that ended with a manifesto. I wouldn't stand here in front of you and talk about this manifesto any more than public broadcasting would have handled it in its "Actual Camera" programme for more than 30 seconds. That's why I'm taking the chance. What concerns us politicians, the Riigikogu, is actually related to the demands of the congress of women in Estonia VI. That's why I'm reading our five important demands. Firstly, the Riigikogu Election Act must create equal opportunities for women and male candidates to become elected. To this end, it is necessary to introduce a requirement for political parties to submit so-called striped lists as from the 2015 Riigikogu elections. Secondly, the VI Women's Congress of Estonia requires that in all collegial collections formed by public authority, including the governing bodies of state-owned companies and foundations, there must be both women and men, neither less than 40%. Gender balance must also be ensured in the Government of the Republic. Thirdly, in order to actually implement the Gender Equality Act, the Government of the Republic, together with the NGO, must prepare a strategic development plan for gender equality based on professional knowledge and taking into account the best practices of other countries, setting out specific objectives and measures to reduce gender inequalities in all key areas of society. Fourthly, in order to achieve equal pay for equal work for women and men, there is an urgent need to establish national supervision of wage conditions and wage agreements, to make wage systems transparent and to hold employers responsible for violating the principle of equal pay for equal work for women and men. Fifthly, in order to balance parents' work and family life obligations and to improve the situation of women in the labour market, the conditions for parental leave and parental benefit should be made more flexible and also supportive of paternity. It is necessary to legalise the individual right of fathers to take parental leave covered by parental benefits. Women's social and political inequalities and poverty are passed on to our children, reducing their welfare and development opportunities. Our daughters and sons, however, are the future of Estonia. We hopefully appeal to all women and progressive men with the proposal to support the efforts expressed in the manifesto. It is written: '7. March 22, Tallinn. ' The 350 women who received the Manifesto represent the Estonian Women's Association, the Estonian Entrepreneurial Women's Association, the Estonian Lawyers' Association, the Estonian Women's Lawyers' Association, the Estonian Women's Association Round Table, the Estonian Women's Editors, the Estonian Women's Research and Information Centre, the Estonian Police Women's Association, the Office of the Gender Equality and Equal Treatment Commissioner, the Zonta International Club. For my part, standing here in front of you, I want to say that in this very Chamber we have stood up for women, but I admit and say plainly, too little. That's why I'm doing everything in my power to carry out the demands of the manifesto. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-10_U67	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. That means the hearing is closed. Closure of the sitting at 4:42 p.m.
