ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U1	Honourable Riigikogu, let's begin Question Time. We're gonna do a presence check. Currently 37 members of the Riigikogu are present. Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Urve Palo and Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi participate in Question Time. Seven members of the Riigikogu have published the question, so at the beginning I say that, after the questions of the registered member of the Riigikogu, I will give you the opportunity to ask two more questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U2	The first question is from Kadri Samson to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U3	Thank you. Prime Minister! Emigration has been a serious problem for Estonia in recent years, and even according to official statistics, the balance of emigration in the previous and previous years has been in a strong disadvantage, with over 2,500 in 2010 and over 3600 in 2012. I know you've had a little time to settle in. Therefore, I will focus on the narrower area of my question, which you dealt with earlier, these are Estonian medical workers. There are now 12400 nurses in Estonia and, unfortunately, we are said to be missing 4,000 nurses. At the same time, only 350 new students will be admitted to the first course at Tallinn and Tartu University of Health this year. Another problem is that trained nurses leave Estonia. What is the government going to do to stop the exodus of nurses and medical staff from Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U4	Thank you. If we look at the big picture to begin with, positive trends can also be observed in recent years. We have carried out two major studies on the emigration of people of working age in 2010 and 2013. In comparison with these two, we can see that the number of people who wish to move out of Estonia is one third less than was three years ago. That is certainly positive news. There are also several other indicators, such as the fact that Estonians who work abroad but live in Estonia have fallen by a few thousand. There have been other positive trends in these three years. And when we compare ourselves with our closest neighbours, the number of emigrations is the difference between the height of the mountain and the number of people travelling from Estonia once and for all times less than our southern neighbours. However, in the case of health care professionals, it must be recognised that there are problems with keeping nurses in Estonia and working both abroad and outside the sector are the reasons why there are few nurses for Estonian health care. When it comes to concrete measures to bring nurses back to healthcare, we have prepared, in cooperation with the whole sector, a whole plan that includes, for example, the 'Sisters Back to Health' project, just as doctors have further training, reintegration. In the end, it is still the fact that wage levels in Estonia and in neighbouring countries are evenly hindering migration abroad.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U5	Kadri Simson, the first question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U6	Thank you. Prime Minister! I understand that you believe that emigration from Estonia is not as serious a problem as it seems to me as a questioner, but there are sectors where emigration cannot be ignored. The medical sector is certainly one of those. According to the Health Board, the outflow of nurses is now even greater than the outflow of doctors. In this regard, our neighbouring country, our northern neighbour Finland, has predicted that by 2020, they will still need 20,000 more nurses. What should be the concrete steps that Estonia can take to keep the sisters here, because, in terms of pay, we will probably not be competitive with Finland in the coming years?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U7	Thank you. Your assessment that finding nurses is a bigger problem in the healthcare sector than finding doctors is consistent with my senses. If we look at the international comparison with OECD countries, the number of doctors per 100000 people is completely similar in Estonia and these countries, but the number of nurses is indeed smaller. I therefore share your view that finding nurses in health care is a more sensitive problem. I do not quite agree that the issue of pay can be completely discarded. It is no coincidence that in recent years, even this year, there has been the fastest and probably one of the fastest, if not the fastest, wage increases in our region for people with various forms of nursing profession in Estonia. My view is that this direction must be continued. It is certainly possible for both the government and specific health care providers to take steps so that nursing workers do not have so much pressure to go outside of Estonia to work. But I stress that, as a parallel problem, it is equally important that nursing workers do not go to work outside the health care sector in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U8	Kadri Simson, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U9	Thank you. One very specific question. If it is estimated that 4000 nurses are missing in Estonia and 350 nurses are in the year, this minus will last. Do you support the fact that there should be an increase in the number of nurses accepted, and have you considered that trained health professionals could somehow be persuaded by the state to stay in Estonia after their studies?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U10	Thank you. I am of the opinion that the admission to nursing care should be increased both in Tallinn Health Care College and in Tartu Health Care College. As Minister of Social Affairs, I took concrete steps to this end. As Minister of Social Affairs, I was able to fight from your party mates, not for increasing the order of nurses, but for increasing the state training of doctors, but for increasing the training of both nurses and doctors in Estonia. At the same time, there is also a much faster and more cost-effective possibility for more people who will become health care workers in years' time and from the point of view of the state: to invite doctors and nurses who have gone out of the sector to work back into the health care sector. This requires the restoration of professional competence. In the case of doctors, this project is already in work, the first students have regained their qualifications and a total of dozens of doctors have returned to health care. I think it's worth doing the same program for the nurses. Those people who already have a nurse's education but who are currently working outside health care would then be able to regain their professional competence within a few months, in a relatively short time, to take a test and return to work as a health care professional. This is even faster than expanding curricula or increasing the volume of studies.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U11	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U12	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Mr. Prime Minister! Yes, indeed, restore your invitation, get the necessary papers and get out of the country, because there is a salary still many times higher. If the pay gap was 20%, I'd wonder if I wanted to be here or there. If the pay gap is multiple, of course, the person goes to where more is paid. Yes, you are right that wages in the sector have grown rapidly, much faster than in Germany or France, because, for example, a hungry person eats faster than a person with a full stomach. But in order for wages to be comparable in some way, let's say there is a one-and-a-half difference, there must be an increase in the financing of the whole sector, to which the state must become more prosperous, there must be a decent economy behind it. As Prime Minister, what are you going to do about it, do you have a certain plan in this regard?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U13	Thank you. Yes, I and the government that I manage have a solid plan for how the Estonian state and the people of Estonia will become more prosperous, and this is what we have presented to you here in front of the Riigikogu. Economic growth depends largely on how well Estonia's exports are doing, and it is not by chance that the government will focus on promoting exports even more than it has done so far. But we also focus more on making Estonia's business climate competitive. All the good and important things that we have done over the last few decades must not only be continued, but must be further developed from there must be economic growth. The second aspect, which promotes economic growth and directly increases people's incomes, relates to government plans to lower labour taxes. The lower the labour taxes are for health care workers who receive a relatively good salary compared to the Estonian average, the higher the amount of money they receive. Although we may be able to do less in the course of the year than we would like to do as a whole, lowering labour taxes is a clear goal for our government, as this will help increase the income of both health care workers and everyone in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U14	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good Prime Minister! In your first reply to Kadri Samson, you said that there were certain positive figures in comparison to the figures for 2010 and 2013. As a head of government, do you have a religion, understanding or plan when emigration in Estonia could be such as not to reduce the number of people in Estonia because of emigrants?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U16	Thank you. That is a very good question, because there are certainly quite a number of those of emigrants who, on a purely statistical basis, do not want to be hindered by emigration. For a few years, our children are going to study at the university, for a few years they are migrating, or they are going to leave in the near future, after the 25 May elections, six Estonian people to the European Parliament. We certainly do not want to restrict the exodus of all of them. Therefore, if we are members of the European Union and enjoy the free movement of people, I am absolutely sure that we will enjoy it, recalling the time when we also had to wait two weeks for a visa to go to Finland and stand in line on Liivalaia street, then certain emigration and some immigration will always remain. We do not like this exodus when it comes to migration for purely economic reasons, because there is either no job in Estonia or there is not enough job worth paying. I am very pleased that the number of people who emigrate purely because they do not have a job in Estonia or have no viable job in Estonia has significantly decreased when comparing the situation of 2010 and 2013 from the very representative surveys and surveys. In order to ensure that there are not only more jobs in Estonia, but also viable jobs, we must, of course, work as a government and a parliament. This is certainly what affects the behaviour of Estonian people in choosing their place of residence and work.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U17	I will conclude on this issue. At the beginning of Question Time, I said that I would only allow two questions to be asked on the spot, so I apologise for the Andrus Ansip.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U18	The next question is from Toomas Tõnis, member of the Riigikogu, Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, Urve Palole. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U19	Good manager! Good minister! It must be acknowledged that the energy plans of the temporary power union are very confusing and, unfortunately, the price of electricity also makes the consumer more expensive. The coalition agreement envisages reducing the value of Eesti Energia, a company belonging to 100% Estonian people by several hundred million euros. I am thinking in particular of the temporary coalition's desire to take the opportunity of Eesti Energia to use environmentally friendly biofuels instead of 50% oil shale in the power plant in the future. No private owner really wants to significantly reduce the value of his business. My question is, why are you doing this or for whose sake are you doing this?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U20	Thank you for your question. Firstly, I must say that the price of electricity cannot be influenced in any way by the government; the price of electricity is formed on the stock market. In recent times, for example, electricity prices have been more favourable because we have proper connections with Europe, and we also receive favourable hydroelectric power from Norway, among other things. So the price of electricity will be on the stock market, not as a result of what exactly it is in Narva Power Plants. Of course, no government must make decisions that are harmful to its businesses and also to the end consumer, or to all of us, the taxpayers. There are no such plans for the current government. On the contrary, we want to do everything we can to ensure that energy prices are more favourable and that accessibility and security are also guaranteed. As regards the accusation of Eesti Energia, as if one point of the coalition agreement said that the renewable energy fee for the co-incineration of oil shale and biomass in Narva Power Plants would not be restored, this has not been a very clear story. In particular, when we are talking about the Auvere power plant, the current support scheme provides support for electricity produced from biomass only if the heat produced during the production process is used up in the district heating network or in industrial consumption. There is no chance in Auvere, there is a warm, figuratively speaking, going out of the chimney, and there has never been a claim for this support. At the same time, no one will, of course, prohibit the use of biomass as fuel in either Auvere or Narva Power Plants; they will not simply qualify for support.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U21	Thomas Tõniste, the first question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U22	Thank you. That is why I have pointed out that you are taking away the opportunity to receive support in the future. But what about the draft reduction of renewable energy charges, which is already under way for the second year, which would stop the current overcompensation of illegal renewable energy producers and reduce electricity prices to consumers by about EUR 3 to 5 million per year? In the Committee on Economic Affairs, instead of stopping overcompensation, the Social Democrats wanted to increase the renewable energy fee by EUR 6 million through support for the electricity produced for the power plant for its own use. At the same time, on the initiative of the Reform Party, the exceptional €4 million renewable energy support for the party's supporter has already been voted in as an amendment. What are the real plans of the new government for renewable energy charges, which will eventually have to be paid by all these poor consumers, the people of Estonia and also businesses?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U23	Thank you for your question. As regards renewable energy charges, a request for State aid to the European Commission was sent back a year or more during the previous ministerial period. We do not know whether the scheme that we are applying for is also eligible State aid in the eyes of the European Union. We look forward to confirming the application and hope that it will arrive in May. There are no changes to the plan in this respect. But more broadly, a new energy economic development plan will be completed by autumn. It is based on studies that have taken the direction to build cogeneration plants across Estonia, where electricity and heat are produced together. As a result, the price of heat to consumers, as well as the price of electricity, will be reduced if there is a local cooperative. As far as the warm price is concerned, once the current gas or oil boiler houses are converted to biofuels, the heat price will immediately decrease by at least 20% for the consumer. So this is the future direction. In addition, if there are cogeneration plants all over Estonia, it also gives economic effect, because biofuels need not only be transported to one particular point in Estonia, such as Ida-Virumaa from South Estonia, but they can be consumed locally. Transport costs are lower, foresters, or the forestry sector, gets a job and ultimately the consumer pays less. In any case, the aim of the current coalition is to work towards increasing energy security and a more favourable price for consumers.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U24	Thomas Tõniste, a second point for clarification, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U25	Thank you. Unfortunately, there was no answer to the question of how much you intend to increase the charges for renewable energy. I'll keep asking. The analysis is usually done first and then the decision to start doing something. Looks like the temporary government is acting the other way around, first they start to dismantle and then they just start analyzing. Based on what analyses has the coalition developed a desire to separate Elektrilevi OÜ or the distribution network from Eesti Energia, which again reduces the value of the company and increases the price for consumers?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U26	Thank you for your question. To continue with the previous questions, your first question is a bit at odds with the second question. In the first place, you accused the coalition that we would no longer allow biofuels to be used in Narva Power Plants. If we allowed this, people's electricity bills would increase significantly by a renewable energy charge, because there are very large volumes. That's what we saw a few years ago when wood was burned at Narva Power Plants and people paid for it. So the aim of the coalition is certainly not to increase the fees, but to lower the final price for people. Especially in the case of heat, this is also very realistic if we use more biofuels. As far as electricity distribution is concerned, the core network company, today's Elering, was separated in its own time, and now we can say that this was the right decision. Elering is a very successful company, performing nicely and productively. Of course, it makes no sense to add or subtract anything until analysis has been carried out, which suggests that the result of this action is one plus one is not equal to two but three. The same applies to electricity distribution, in any case nothing will be done until the tests have shown that it makes sense. As far as I am concerned, Sandor Liive has said that he thinks this could make sense from 2019. Maybe that's it. We have to analyze and then decide.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U27	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. It was also known today that Eesti Energia sells 15-16 euros of oil shale to its power plants and oil industry, while Viru Chemistry Group sells 31 euros of oil shale to its own. Do you think it's normal? If you don't have to, what are you going to do?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U29	I am not aware of whether these statements correspond to reality. I read it in the press this morning, but I'd still like to check. If this is true, of course it cannot be considered equal treatment in the market. We're talking about a market economy. If one point of the coalition agreement is accused of analysing the separation of oil shale reserves from Eesti Energia, with the exception of the security reserve, which is important for the production of electricity, then it is now precisely that, if oil shale reserves were under a separate company managed by the state, there could also not be such a conflict of interest that the company which produces the oil itself would sell raw materials to its competitor. So this is also an area that needs more in-depth analysis.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U30	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U31	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister! You certainly agree that there is a generally accepted polluter-pays principle of environmental taxation in the European Union. Today, Iru is brought in garbage from Finland and England for heating purposes at a heat and power plant. The cost of electricity from these waste through efficient cogeneration is paid by the Estonian electricity consumer. Do you consider such a charge to be fair to the Estonian electricity consumer or should you pay a sufficiently large amount of the polluter, or British and Finnish waste producer, for the incineration of the waste produced?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U32	Thank you. As regards the incineration of garbage at the Iru power plant, as far as I know, the amount of garbage that is imported from Finland and Great Britain is estimated to be 10%. The reason is expected to be that local raw materials are not sufficient. Here, too, the question arises that maybe the power plant is built a little too big, given the amount of garbage. But it's also a subject that needs to be analyzed. I can't say for sure right now. The question arises as to why it is necessary to import the garbage. But when we talk about this more broadly, I do not think it is right in itself that we should pay a renewable energy fee through our electricity bills on the garbage that is imported. These are very small sums, but it's a matter of principle. So I think we need to take a closer look at this issue and analyse it. However, speaking of the Iru power plant, the Minister for the Environment has also said that one problem for us is that we are currently sorting only about 26% of the waste, but the goal by 2020 is to sort 50%. As a result of the start-up of the Iru power plant, the percentage of waste to be sorted is likely to have fallen further. So in this light too, we need to discuss and analyse this issue more widely whether we are on the right track and whether something should change here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U33	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U34	Next is Tarmo Tamm's question to Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U35	Thank you, Mr President. Minister of Finance! As one of the sources of cover for the promises of the new coalition agreement, you have provided for the decoupling of excise fuel from the road savings money. This will lead to a reduction in road maintenance facilities of EUR 25 million. In a situation where the condition of roads is not particularly commendable, is it responsible for reducing the means of road safety?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U36	Thank you. I would very much like to hear from you what the situation in Estonia is in such a way that it is particularly commendable. Then we can compare. It is not, in itself, responsible to link any excise duty to a particular cost. Think a little bit of an analogy. Would you be willing to link the use of alcohol duty to tobacco consumers in any way, for example, drunks or tobacco excise? Probably not. In fact, there is an answer to your question for the purpose of excise duty. Is the excise duty imposed in the interests of those who cause these harmful side effects, or does it have any other meaning? The excise has another idea. Its first aim is to limit consumption with harmful side effects and the second, but perhaps it would be more correct to say that even the first objective is to collect fair tax revenue into the budget. Car fuel excise duty is no exception in this respect. We need not only to spend fuel excise duties on asphalting, but we need to be flexible in spending it, including spending this excise duty on roads. The fact that we have had to put exactly 75% of the excise duty on the road a year has caused very clear problems. This burden of spending is not in line with the needs of the roads and the resulting problems in the preparation of projects. This rigidity of the budget has probably also created superprojects that are too large.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U37	Tarmo Tamm, the first question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U38	Thank you. It's strange to hear that you don't need money for roads, but that's why. As we know, less than 50% of the money collected as fuel excise duties is currently in transit, while the remaining money goes to the state to cover other expenditures. Does the Government consider that the purpose of excise duties on fuel is not to guarantee road safety but to cover other public expenditure?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U39	Thank you. We're probably hearing different voices. I didn't say what you said, and I didn't understand what you said 50%. It's a fantasy again. I'll continue with my answer then. We have put a very large amount of money into the budget for this year, although it was clear that road projects have not been prepared for 2014. A new budget period for the European Union has begun, but the money has not come because the projects have not been prepared. However, the law called for this amount to be entered in the budget. It is impossible to imagine that such a use of money or the use of it forcefully would be economical. At the same time, in the budget, road funding will start to increase from 2016, despite the reduction in the European Union's share of road funding. I am absolutely sure that it will be possible to make more sensible choices in this area, and I will stick to the fact that excise duties on fuel do not only have to be used in the interests of fuel burners. All the more so because we do not have any of the taxes imposed on car users in other countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U40	Tarmo Tamm, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U41	Thank you. I rely on the National Audit Office's audit, which shows that less than 50% of excise duties are currently used for Estonian roads. I think it is worth believing in the audit of the National Audit Office. You have indicated that funding for local government roads will not be reduced. Will this funding not fall in 2013 or 2014? As far as I know, road funding fell by 1.2 million euros in 2014. What year have you taken on board when you claim that the funding for municipal roads will not be reduced?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U42	Thank you. We're hearing different voices again. I was not talking about local roads, but I can say that it was agreed during the coalition negotiations that the funding of these roads would not fall. But I haven't said that yet. As far as the audit of the National Audit Office is concerned, they again reflect their perception of the law. It is not foreseen that money collected from excise duty must go to roads, but to such an extent. But there is no big difference here, because we are still facing the same problem: if there is more driving around and more excise duty comes, then we will certainly not be able to spend this money at the same rate. In any case, it is neither reasonable nor possible to link excise duty with road maintenance costs. We spend a few years more, a few years less. Clearly, roads have been one of the fastest-growing areas. The quality of roads has improved very quickly over the last 10 to 15 years, which must be acknowledged. In any case, the situation of our roads will continue to improve and the financing of roads will increase.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U43	Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U44	Thank you. I was a little surprised to hear you say that if 75% of the excise duty is used for tea storage, it is not in line with the needs of the roads. I think it wasn't until a few weeks ago that the Road Administration introduced its analysis and described the situation. The analysis pointed out that the financial needs remain high and that the road situation has not improved as quickly as necessary. But maybe it doesn't matter what percentage is in the law, because the road situation needs to be improved in any case. Has it not occurred to you that, for example, if the state has not used this money for the roads at the end of one year or another because of some disputes, it might make sense to give more money to local authorities in some years? Local roads, which are managed by local governments, are very much looking forward to money.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U45	Thank you. You had a very precise formulation of the fact that the financing of roads is not in line with needs. If we're in the middle of some big road project, I'm sure we won't force any more people to drive around. If, for example, we build an intersection of the Mountain, it does not happen in such a way that the people commit themselves to burning more fuel. There must be no rigid connection. This would not be in line with our goals, the cycle of road construction or the realization of road projects, these amounts vary in rhythm, and that is natural. That is why tax policy logic arises. Another logic is that the purpose of the excise duty cannot be simply to finance asphalting; the state must use the money more flexibly. I've already told you about the growth in tea budgets. The financing of local roads has indeed been relatively poorer in relation to euro projects. We intend to ensure that local roads will receive a pro-rata share of what they have received so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U46	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U47	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! You said that maybe every year all the money isn't used for the roads. However, the road map does not indicate any year if it does not delay the completion of an object to the following year, because it is not enough money to do these works. Where does the idea come from that 75% of the excise duty is too much?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U48	Thank you. I haven't even said it's too much. I said that the road situation has improved faster than more slowly than in other life. It is a fact that the development of the road situation has been quite rapid. As far as road safety plans are concerned, the changes are natural, because the road safety plans are not determined by God, but by ourselves. One source of the changes is always that certain works are getting more expensive, some procurements are being challenged and technical problems arise. Changing these plans is a natural activity. Like all other schemes, road safety plans are not separate from the opportunities created by the general wealth of society and the state budget. They must in any case take into account the state of the state budget and the need for funding in other areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U49	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U50	Next, Margus Tsahkna will ask the question to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U51	Thank you very much. Prime Minister! Your government has decided to reduce your pension from next year to 200,000 mothers who have already raised their children. Everyone's pension is on average reduced by 120 euros per year. Indeed, in 2012, you and I adopted a legislative amendment that introduced a parental pension. But now the new government coalition has decided to take it away from those 200,000 mothers who have already raised their children and who, by law, should be able to complete their maternity pension from 1 January 2015 onwards. Why did you decide to reduce their 200,000 mother's pension and do they still have hope of your mercy and that you will keep your mother's pension?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U52	Thank you. Good colleague! The talk about us lowering someone's pension next year is irresponsible intimidation, in my opinion. In the following year, pensions in Estonia will certainly increase, according to the current forecast an average of 23 euros per month. We have decided that the average pension will also be exempt from income tax next year, an important part of the pension increase. This decision also requires sources of cover from the state budget. The IRL has asked a lot about the availability of these shields before, and now you've started attacking one of the possible sources of cover immediately in the bud. I actually answered most of these questions in Question Time last week, but I am happy to repeat. The fact that someone already has a pension reduction is not true. The parental pension consists of three parts, two of which are valid and the third is not yet valid. We intend to maintain two existing parts exactly in their original form. First, a 4% contribution to the second pension pillar of one parent is paid for a child born in 2003 and later. This represents an average of EUR 1134 over a three-year period, whereas the parent whose pension pillar is paid may be both a mother and a father. The second part of the parental pension, which also concerns children born in 1981-2012, means an additional two-year pension for their parents, is already valid and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U53	Margus Tsahkna, the first question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U54	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! I hope that I do not have to start reminding you of the rule of law. After all, all parental pension components are valid. We passed this law in 2012. If you take away from 200,000 mothers their maternity pension, which they should be able to obtain on average EUR 120 per year, you will have to amend the law, i.e. to repeal the current law in this respect. You have said that in 2018 you will receive this part of your maternity pension. The average loss of these 200,000 mothers is 360 euros. Because of the economic crisis, we have slowed down the rise in pensions a little, and the state will pay this money afterwards. Will you do the same with regard to your maternity pension, i.e. by 2018 you will pay the maternity pension to these 200,000 mothers afterwards for those years?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U55	Thank you. In April next year, as in April this year, the pension of some 400000 pensioners will not increase to 200,000. Pensions are projected to increase more than in the previous year or the year before or even in several years. In order for these 400000 people's pension increases to be complete, we have decided that we will continue to increase the income tax exemption and that the total average old-age pension will also be exempt from income tax in Estonia next year. It is not true that we declare the amount of parental pension that has not yet been paid or that has not been paid invalid. We're not declaring it invalid. We postpone its entry into force until 2018 and this is because, until 2017, the Estonian state will have to spend tens of millions of euros on its budget to make additional payments to the second pension pillar of Estonian people. Next year, this extraordinary cost will be over EUR 62 million, rising to over EUR 70 million by 2017. We have jointly decided that we will make these extra payments. In order for the Estonian state to be able to make these additional payments, we have decided that we will not apply several preferential schemes at the same time. This would be irresponsible for the budget and would not be feasible for the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U56	Margus Tsahkna, the second point to be specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U57	Thank you. Prime Minister! In my opinion, it is irresponsible if you are going to change the law already in force. The 200,000 mothers who have already raised their children know that they can expect an average annual maternity pension of 120 euros for raising their children. In my opinion, it is precisely when you amend the law that irresponsible behaviour is being done, because the national budget strategy documents have also included this amount for a few years, and these costs have been taken into account. In fact, you're taking that money away from these people, that's clear, there's no point in spinning around here. You will withdraw EUR 23 million from 200,000 of your mother. But my question is about something entirely different. I have at my disposal the information that the Ministry of Finance has not actually included in the budget strategy documents the costs of maternity pension by 2018. Are you holding their 200,000 mother's pension again?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U58	Jürgen Ligi at my right hand says he's counted. Before you say anything, it's always worth getting to know the source. I remember quite well from the meeting of the Cabinet that the table contained precisely the costs of launching the part of the parental pension that was not yet in force by 2018. The national budgetary strategy must take into account both the decisions that have already been taken and those that are planned to be taken into account. To date, we have taken a decision not yet at law level, but as a political decision that this point will enter into force at the beginning of 2018. To say that the amendment of the current law is necessarily irresponsible is also irresponsible, because we must also amend the existing law to increase the tax exemption that will be granted to some 400000 pensioners. This means that around 400000 pensioners will receive a higher pension from next year. I am not sure that this is the wrong step, on the contrary, I think it is the right one. To say that changing the current law is always irresponsible may not be an accurate or correct assessment of what is happening.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U59	Marko Pomerants, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U60	Thank you, good President. Prime Minister! A lot has been said of you how much you read and learned about a man. I'm happy about that, too. You certainly know the story of the Estonian literature classic 'Little Hänna', where Vestmann was once on top and under the Bible page and then again on the contrary. This was also the case when Vestmann wondered how the Bible leaf would come to his daughter with her own money. But the reason was very simple: The Bible page did not have its own money. It is now also the case with parental pension that you take money from the same pensioners so that the average pension is exempt from income tax. Is this a highly accepted and ethical step?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U61	Thank you. In addition to reading the Estonian literature classics, it is also worth observing from time to time what the heads of state have said. A very responsible, by the way, conservative politician in the United States has said that no government can ever give people something that he has never collected from these very people before as tax money. It is quite right that every expenditure the government makes, every expenditure made from the state budget, must be compensated by the same people, the same taxpayers of the Estonian state, paying taxes in the state's cup and making other expenses. You say that we will go to the Estonian taxpayers by making the state budget with their own money. That's what you call it. But from where else than from the taxpayer does the government have to raise funds in the state budget? The role of the government is to make fair decisions that strengthen society, and we certainly intend to do so. I've been communicating with a lot of older people myself. In my opinion, the understanding among Estonian pensioners is that regardless of whether the pensioner has children and regardless of whether his or her spouse is alive, his or her pension should increase and this pension should at least be exempt from income tax in the amount of the Estonian average pension. This is the feedback I have received from Estonian pensioners.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U62	Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U63	Thank you. I was a little surprised by a thought design. You said that the third part of the maternity pension had to be taken away because if you started to pay this part of the maternity pension, the sustainability of public finances would suffer. But at the same time, you will allocate the EUR 23 million you are taking away from your mothers, somewhere else, which is that the money is actually being spent. It is therefore not about sustainability, but about what choices are made. But my question is because you didn't answer Margus whether those 360 euros per family will be paid off afterwards, in 2018, to mothers. Last Wednesday you said it wouldn't be done, but last week at the Forum, Minister Pevkur left that answer in the air, and you didn't answer that question. I am still hopeful to ask whether this three-year unpaid maternity pension will be paid ex post in 2018. Maybe it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U64	Thank you. It is quite interesting practice to ask the Prime Minister the same question again every week and then see if he still answers exactly the same. In my case, there is no reason to expect me to change my position within a week. However, I do agree with what you said that decisions on the state budget are a matter of choice. The increase in child benefits is a matter of choice; the exemption from income tax on pensions is a matter of choice; making labour taxes is a matter of choice; contributing more to the security of Estonia is also a matter of choice. These are the choices that the government alliance wants to make. I welcome the fact that the opposition is demanding from us, even though it would not be necessary to require sources of cover for these choices. We are going to be very careful to ensure that all our options have a cover. Indeed, it is necessary to choose whether to improve the livelihood of 400000 pensioners, regardless of whether they have children, whether they are close at all, by not having to pay income tax on their pension, or by starting to apply an additional scheme already in 2015. It is a question of whether this supplementary scheme, i.e. the old-age pension, has yet to enter into force, I would point out that two thirds of the parental pension is valid and will remain valid, it is possible to start applying at the same time as we make additional payments to the second pension pillar of people. That, too, is a choice. If you find a €23 million cover, we will certainly be ready to discuss it. I know the members of the IRL are in favour of balance and responsibility in their hearts. I hope that with this proposal too, we will see real sources of cover, we will see what should not be done about the coalition's plans or what more should be done to ensure that there are sources of cover. I am also looking forward to this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U65	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U66	Now Olga Soldier will be able to ask questions to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas within five minutes, and he will be able to respond briefly. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U67	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Prime Minister! On 8 April, the European Court of Justice delivered a judgment repealing the Data Retention Directive. The Directive required communication companies to maintain so-called metadata for six months to two years. Metadata include, for example, information about who, where, what time and how long a person calls a mobile or fixed phone and when he or she has access to the Internet or is using an e-mail. This data for each user was required to be kept by all providers of communications services, both telephone operators and ISPs. According to the Court, this directive seriously affects fundamental rights and the protection of personal data and is not necessarily possible or necessary. You know that Estonia has transposed this directive through the Electronic Communications Act. That's where my question comes from. Does the Government of the Republic of Estonia intend to do something in the light of this judgment, such as order an analysis, or is there a process of preparing for the amendment of the Act? What are your plans?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U68	Thank you. The authorities will certainly have to analyse the impact of this judgment on national law. We must bear in mind that, in addition to this directive, not only in Estonia, but also in many other countries of the European Union, there are national laws that regulate the same subject matter. Whether and to what extent they need to be changed is certainly a question of further analysis. This judgment is a week old and today, to say definitively what effect it will have on Estonian legislation and also on the work of Parliament, is a little early, but we are going to analyse this decision. There is no doubt that judgments, including those of the European Court of Justice, are to be enforced.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U69	One short point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U70	Thank you. Do you have any information that the European Commission may, however, initiate some other directive on this subject and, in some form, this data retention requirement may remain in force? Do you have any intel on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U71	Thank you. I have been very close to many of the people of the European Commission, including the President of the Commission, over the last few days, but our discussions have been different. They have been linked to security, energy, transport and the European internal market. We have not talked about amending this directive in recent days. If this initiative comes from the Commission, we will probably look at it calmly. I think that this issue will find a reasonable solution. This topic is just so new now that it needs to be analysed a little bit about exactly what the right solution should be.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U72	I will conclude on this issue. Question Time is over. Thank you to the members of the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U73	Honourable Riigikogu! It's time to hand over the drafts and inquiries. Does anyone have a wish? Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U74	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of 17 colleagues, I have an inquiry to make to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. Knowing how thoroughly ministers usually prepare to answer our questions, it can be assumed that the answer to the inquiry will sound in this Chamber of Riigikogu in about two months' time. We ask ourselves what are the sources of the new coalition's promises. Several tax reductions and increases have been announced. When it comes to sources of cover, however, there is a relatively general word and, if not general, it turns out that fixed costs and fixed losses are sometimes a one-off source of income. This will lead to a situation where the Interim Government, which will operate until March 2015, will once and for all be honoured, but the next government will have to deal with budget gaps. We're asking about six areas. First of all, let's ask about the roads. As we know, Estonia's roads have been underfunded for a long time, yet the Coalition Agreement foresees that this money will be reduced even more. We are also asking that excise duty on fuel oil be allowed to be increased, in the hope of obtaining a great deal of revenue, but there is no compensation mechanism for those who will receive the tax increase. For four more areas, let's ask. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U75	I have accepted an inquiry. Now we're going to do a presence check. There are 86 members of the Riigikogu, no 15. To clarify today's agenda, I say so much, honourable members of the Riigikogu, that the draft being discussed on the second agenda item requires a majority of the Riigikogu's membership to be adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U76	We will start working on the points on today's agenda. The third reading of the draft law 559 on the amendment of the Credit Institutions Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws begins. Do the groups want to speak in the negotiations? There's no call. Since the draft requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu to be adopted as a law, we are once again checking the presence. 81 members of the Riigikogu are present, 20 are missing. The Commission's proposal is that draft 559 should be put to the final vote. The final vote on the draft law on the amendment of the Credit Institutions Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws begins. Please take a stand and vote. There are 88 parliamentarians in favour of adopting this draft as a law, and there are no opposed or impartial. The draft law amending the Law on Credit Institutions initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U77	The second reading of the draft Act on the ratification of Part Four of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) begins with the 'Representation of the Representatives of the Governments of the Member States of the Council of the Internal Agreement on the Financing of European Union Aid under the Multiannual Financial Framework (2014 to 2020) under the ACP-EU Partnership Agreement and on the allocation of financial assistance for the Overseas Countries and Territories to which the second reading of the Act on the ratification of Part Four of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union applies' initiated by the Government of the Republic. Would the representatives of the political groups like to make a statement? I'm sorry! Rannar Vassilyev will make a presentation on behalf of the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U78	Ladies and gentlemen, For the sake of saving time, I don't read the title of the bill, I just call it a bill. The Committee on Finance discussed the draft on 8 April. The purpose of the draft is to ratify the Internal Agreement setting out the internal measures necessary for the implementation of the financial commitments entered into by the Cotonou Agreement and the Financial Protocol. The commission made consensual decisions which sound as follows: to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for a second reading by 16 April, to propose that the second reading be closed and put to the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U79	There are questions for the waitress. Margus Tsahkna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U80	Thank you. Dear waitress, I read in this title that the state of Estonia is committed. Please explain to us, before the final vote, what commitments, how great and to whom and for what reason the Estonian state is taking!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U81	Thank you. I suppose it would have been more appropriate to ask these questions to the initiator of the draft, but I can also pass on this information on behalf of the Commission. There is a European Development Fund with a financial envelope of EUR 30,5 billion. Estonia's share is 0.086%, which is about 26 million euros and another 300,000 euros. This is the volume that can be said to be committed by Estonia. [[Summing.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U82	Honourable! The waitress's on the remote, and the questioner wants to ask. Please let him do it! Margus Tsahkna, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U83	Thank you. Sorry, I am not a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and I will specify what this EUR 26 million, or exactly what that amount was, is, in any case, more than EUR 20 million, which is very, very large money. That's as much as you take out of your parental pension. So where does it really go? It's going into some kind of fund. But what does the Estonian people, from whom this money is taken, get for it or where exactly does that money go?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U84	Thank you. I would point out that this is not the same order of magnitude, as this money is allocated to the next budget period of the European Union, i.e. the years 2014 to 2020. This is not a one-year extra cost. Therefore, the comparison mentioned a moment ago with the budget's potential expenditure item is not quite appropriate. But in essence, this expenditure or, let's say, the support is divided as follows (this can also be read in the draft explanatory memorandum): EUR 29.1 billion will be allocated to the ACP countries, i.e. the African, Caribbean and Pacific States, EUR 364.5 million will go to the overseas countries and territories, and EUR 1.1 billion to the European Commission to cover the costs of planning and implementing this fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U85	Thank you. Ken-Marti Vaher, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U86	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, My question certainly concerns the title of this important bill, which, amazingly enough, even went to five lines. Did you discuss in the committee that, when you start reading from the first word of the title and finish with the last word, you have to admit that the first half of the title will go out of your mind before it is finished? Did you discuss this so that perhaps you could say more clearly what the bill is about and what we are actually confirming here today?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U87	Thank you. Whether the first end of the text goes away before it is completed depends primarily on two factors: how quickly it can be read and how much it can be remembered. There were no direct questions like this in the Commission, but it is certainly an untraditionally long title of the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U88	Thank you. No further questions for the rapporteur. I'm opening negotiations, but there's no call. No amendments have been tabled to bill 585. The proposal of the Steering Committee is that the draft should be put to a final vote. We're gonna start preparing it, but first we're gonna do a presence check. I'll ring the bell, then people will know to come. Right now, there's... Okay! Sven Sester, please, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U89	Thank you. What are we doing here now? In the meantime, you took some options off the big screen, and now you're going to recheck. What's going to happen now? Please explain.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U90	At the moment, the presence check is re-established. 75 members of the Riigikogu are present and 26. I will put draft 585 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 69 members of the Riigikogu are in favour of adopting the bill as a law, and there are no opposers or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U91	The next item is the second reading of Bill 403 of the Law on Conformity of Products, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and related amendments to other Acts. Economic Commission waitress Jaan Apple Tree, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U92	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that the initiation of the draft was due to the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice of 9 July 2012 to align the Product Conformity Act with the Constitution. The Government of the Republic initiated this draft on 25 March 2013. The first reading took place in m. a On 5 June, the deadline for submitting amendments was 12 September. No amendment was received by the Commission at that time. The working group of the Economic Commission prepared the draft at its meeting on 25 March. a, there were people from the Ministry of Economic Affairs. During discussions in the Economic Committee before the first reading of the draft a On 13 and 20 May, the need to amend other laws relating to this subject was highlighted. At the above-mentioned meetings of the Commission, it was agreed that the Ministry of Economic Affairs would carry out a legal audit in which laws containing mandatory references to the standard would be sought, and all these laws would be organised as a single package. As a result of the revision of other laws, the representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications considered that the relevant amendments could be made to the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity, to the Law on electronic communications, to the Law on electrical safety, to the Act on the Safety of Fuel Gas, to the Act on Safety of Lifts and Cableways, to the Law on Traffic, to the Law on Machinery Safety and to the Law on Safety of Pressure Equipment. It was also found that the references in the Measurement Act are regulated by the draft Act amending the Measurement Act under development. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications did not propose amendments to the Waste Act, the Port Act, the Maritime Safety Act and the Water Act, as their analysis revealed that the references to the standard there were due to European Union or international law. The Commission decided to make 14 amendments to the draft this spring, all tabled by the Ministry of Economic Affairs. I will now take a closer look at the progress of the procedure. As I said, the draft was discussed twice this spring: on 25 March and 7 April. Ago Pelisar, Head of the Quality Infrastructure Department of the Internal Market Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, was invited to the meetings. Let me briefly talk about some of the issues and the questions that we have discussed. It asked for a more precise explanation of Amendment 4, which was made to us in such a way that the new wording would better reflect the reality of the situation. It was explained that this was a matter of funding for the standardisation organisation, specifying what would actually be ordered from the standardisation centre for public money. The new wording should be more precise than the previous wording. In addition, it specified which budget would finance the activities. As you can see from the fourth amendment, it is clearly stated that it is financed by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications from its own budget. It was noted that the Chancellor of Justice's approach was due to the Traffic Act and that other laws had been amended during the draft procedure. As I said before, some laws are currently out of the question. I also repeat the reason: these laws derive in many respects from European Union law. I will mention another subject, the translation of standards and the reimbursement of its cost. People in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications said that mandatory standards had to be available in Estonian at one time, but now there is no such requirement in the law. Currently, standards are translated on a need-based basis, with proposals from stakeholders and will be translated on the basis of them. On average, the translation of standards takes about EUR 200000 per year. It was also asked whether the Chancellor of Justice had expressed an opinion on § 42, which in fact caused his proposal in 2012. The Office of the Chancellor of Justice has said that legal clarity has indeed improved. Finally, I will talk about the Commission's decisions. Firstly, it was decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 16 April. Secondly, it was decided to propose the end of the second reading of the draft. Thirdly, it was decided that, once the second reading of the draft was completed, the draft should be sent to the third reading by 23 April. Fourthly, we decided to propose that the draft be put to the final vote. All the four decisions taken by the Commission were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U93	Thank you. Any questions for the Commission's waitress? There are no questions. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish to negotiate. Amendments to the draft have been received, and we will review the table of amendments. Amendment 1 has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, taking full account. Amendment 2 has also been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, fully taken into account. The third amendment has been tabled on behalf of the Committee on Economic Affairs, fully taken into account. The fourth amendment is from the Committee on Economic Affairs, fully taken into account. The fifth amendment is from the Committee on Economic Affairs, fully taken into account. The sixth amendment is from the Committee on Economic Affairs, fully taken into account. The seventh amendment is from the Committee on Economic Affairs, fully taken into account. The eighth amendment is from the Committee on Economic Affairs, fully taken into account. The ninth amendment is from the Committee on Economic Affairs, fully taken into account. The 10th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, taking full account. Amendment 11 is from the Committee on Economic Affairs, fully taken into account. Amendment 12 is from the Committee on Economic Affairs, fully taken into account. Amendment 13 is from the Committee on Economic Affairs, fully taken into account. Amendment 14 is from the Committee on Economic Affairs, fully taken into account. The Commission's proposal is that the second reading of draft 403 should be completed. No other proposals have been received, so the second reading of Bill 403 has been completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U94	The next item is the second reading of the draft law on the amendment of family law initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. Please waitress Valdo Randpere, member of the Legal Affairs Committee!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U95	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! The Committee on Legal Affairs has been discussing this draft since January. At the end of January, the draft was also here at first reading. After that, we have discussed the draft at several meetings and prepared it for a second reading. For example, in addition to the members of the Legal Affairs Committee, people from the Ministry of Justice and the Estonian Banking Association were invited to the meeting on 11 March, as were the Chairman of the Notaries Chamber and others. We also discussed this draft and examined the amendments on Monday, 7 April. We found that the Commission supported ten amendments, decided that we would refer this draft to second reading by 16 April and propose that the second reading be stopped. Yesterday, however, the Commission got back together and discussed this draft again. Since our understanding of the perfection of this draft has changed to some extent, we have decided to propose that the second reading be interrupted today instead. However, the amendments would still remain in force. We want to look once again at a few aspects of this draft before we go further and bring it back to second and then third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U96	Thank you. There are questions for the waitress. Marko Pomerants, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U97	Thanks! Good Valdo! All amendments are appropriate and accepted by the Commission. Why don't you explain it to the people who are in the hall and to those who are not in the hall, which is the content of the few things that still need to be dealt with? People would know where the point is. Sorry for breaking the language code!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U98	That's a good question. All this amendment is due to the fact that, after the adoption of the family law, I think it came into force in 2010, there were some shortcomings in its implementation. We wanted to eliminate them by amending the law. We are making some changes to the provisions that have not served their purpose. However, according to the original plan, we also began to change the provisions on, for example, how parents can represent their children. After we had finished this debate in the Commission, several parents also personally contacted me, it might even be said that very many parents who asked directly why Riigikogu, under this label, that children should be protected from their parents, are actually interfering with parents' obligations towards children and exercise their rights. I had my doubts here before, too, but I thought maybe I was the only one with such strange views. But since I heard the same opinion from so many other parents, I had a little hesitation that maybe we should look at this bill again. I'm not even sure if we're gonna change anything there, maybe we're gonna leave it unchanged, but I don't want to come before you again in three years' time and say that you'll see, unfortunately, things like this got through in their own time. On a few things that we are now correcting in the law, I would have liked to say that it would have been good if someone had interrupted the second reading of the draft in 2010 and these things would not have been included in the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U99	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U100	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, I ask you to be more specific! You used the word'some' and mentioned a situation in which children must be protected from their parents, but I understood that there are several aspects that need to be reviewed. Perhaps you'll elaborate on them? During my first reading, I had a question and, in the meantime, I had this conversation with you and other people. I now ask whether, during the proceedings in the Commission, you discussed the issue of gender change and the annulment of marriage, which is dealt with in Chapter 2 of the Family Act. Did you discuss that when it comes to a case where one of the partners changes sex, it could go under chapter 5, which deals with the ending of a marriage?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U101	This last question was not discussed in the Commission after the first reading, so I cannot comment on it. We are of the preliminary opinion that the law provides for the marriage to be nullified or terminated. As far as the problem of representing children is concerned, I will give an example of one very simple thing. According to the current draft, we want to make it more difficult for parents to deal with bank accounts for children than we do today. But it wouldn't concern existing accounts. Even if there was an abuse, we wouldn't be touching this account, but in the future, from 1 January 2015, there would be new rules that would make the lives of parents quite difficult. These rules require parents to act with good will toward their children. I think that's the wrong attitude. In addition, a new concept has been introduced into the draft currently in our hands, a transaction in everyday life, a so-called "day-to-day" deal. It's not very well furnished. The right to decorate this concept is placed on the family's own shoulders; the family should define what is a daily deal in this family. I think we should also look at this provision before we say definitively that let's keep it that way, let the decision-making powers remain with the parents. This would make it quite difficult for parents as well as for those who should watch over it all. In principle, we can rely on the assumption that parents love their children, care for them, benevolent toward them, and want the best for them. But with this bill, we're going a little bit along the way to put honest parents behind the wall and let the few dishonest ones walk free. This, in my opinion, is not the right approach.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U102	Thank you. The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish to negotiate. A total of 10 amendments have been tabled for the draft 546. Let's go through them. The first amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs, which has been fully taken into account. The second amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs, which has been fully taken into account. The third amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs, which has been fully taken into account. The fourth amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs, which has been fully taken into account. The fifth amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs, which has been fully taken into account. The sixth amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs, which has been fully taken into account. The seventh amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs, which has been fully taken into account. The eighth amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs, which has been fully taken into account. The ninth amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs, which has been fully taken into account. The 10th amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs, which has been fully taken into account. The commission has proposed to suspend the second reading of draft 546. I will set the deadline for the submission of 546 amendments. a 2 May at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U103	Agenda item 5 is the first reading of the draft Act of Tallinn University of Technology initiated by the Government of the Republic. Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Education and Science, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U104	Mr President of the sitting and Member of the Board of Governors of Tallinn University of Technology! Hello to the other members of the Riigikogu who are listening to us here! I will briefly introduce the draft Act of Tallinn University of Technology initiated by the Government of the Republic. The draft establishes a special law for the Tallinn University of Technology, which provides for the differences between the activities of this university and those of other public universities. The draft defines the areas of responsibility of the Technical University, changes its governance structure and clarifies the financial implications. In other matters, the University of Tallinn University of Technology will continue to be subject to the University Act. This bill must be viewed in a slightly broader context. At present, the functioning of all public universities is governed by the University Act. The exception has so far been the University of Tartu, which is already subject to a special law. This draft will create a similar regulation to the Tallinn University of Technology. Now, closer to the bill. This limits the areas of responsibility of Tallinn University of Technology and the main fields of activity of study and research. As you can read § 2 (4) (2) of the draft, Tallinn University of Technology is the leading university of technical education and science in Estonia and is responsible for the subsequent growth of engineers and technicians. In order to better assume this responsibility, there will be the creation of technical sciences professorships funded from the state budget. A similar situation is already in the University of Tartu. Probably the most important change and perhaps the main impulse to initiate this bill is that the management structure of Tallinn University of Technology will be made a little more flexible compared to what the university law currently provides for. The new structure will allow the university to involve, to a much greater extent, persons outside the university's academic community in management processes. In the current governance model of universities, representatives of these stakeholders are generally not involved in the decision-making process in this way. The Tallinn University of Technology still has a Board of Governors, but it clearly has only a consultative role and the University Council does not have to take its opinion into account. This situation is now getting a little more flexible. The only exception to the general model, as has already been said, is the University of Tartu, whose governance structure was changed since 2012 when the Council gained greater competence in adopting substantive and important management decisions. According to the draft, the highest management body of Tallinn University of Technology will be the Board of Governors, whose members are more than half named by non-university parties from outside the academic community. The Council will in future be an academic decision-making body which will decide on the university's study and research and development issues. The Rector will continue to run the university's day-to-day activities and represent the university. The new approach will make the Technical University more open and enable it to perform better the task of promoting innovation and serving society, i.e. to better link the functioning of the Tallinn University of Technology with the expectations of society. If the university rector is currently elected by a council of academics, then in the future the Board of Governors, whose half of its members have come from outside the academic community, will do so. The new governance model will apply from 1 January 2015. Last but not least, I am talking about a rather important point in this draft concerning the rights of the Tallinn University of Technology in the use of financial resources. There are differences compared to university law. The draft will improve the transfer of technology, i.e. the transfer of academically developed technology into society and the economy. In order to accelerate this development, the rights of the Tallinn University of Technology in the use of financial resources are specified, including by granting loans to legal persons related to the main activities of the Tallinn University of Technology. The Tallinn University of Technology has wanted to support more actively the application of the so-called spin-offs, i.e. the university's knowledge, with the support of the university, in practice for business or social purposes. The draft would, by decision of the Board of Governors, give the right, on the account of its revenue, to guarantee the obligations of legal persons established for the performance of the statutory duties of the university and to grant them loans. The bill should enter into force on 1 September 2014 with your assistance. Now I'm happy to answer the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U105	Any questions for the initiator of the bill? It is. Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U106	Dear waitress, As you noted, on the basis of this law, the Board of Governors, composed of 11 members of the Rector of Tallinn University of Technology, will elect the Rector of Tallinn University of Technology. The University of Tartu Act provides for the selection of a very broad assembly of rectors, with all professors and also student representatives. Estonia is quite a small country and there are not many universities. Do you consider it justified to create such different arrangements for electing the Rector in Estonia in principle?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U107	This is a discussion place, isn't it? On the one hand, I do not think that it is wise to spread it around the electorate. On the other hand, I consider, in principle, the right direction for non-university districts to participate in the process of electing the rector. The fact that 11 people decide who will become the rector of an institution so important to Estonian society is certainly worth discussing. I note that the development of this bill has been based on the initiative of the Tallinn University of Technology itself and the draft has also been approved by the Supervisory Board of the Tallinn University of Technology. Perhaps the technical university itself has thought that such a logic of rector selection is reasonable, but the legislator has the right and opportunity to analyse it and, if necessary, to think about the clarifications.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U108	Mart Meri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U109	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. It's a new draft law. Personally, I do not think that it is a very sensible idea to increase the number of such specific laws. I am particularly interested in whether the differences that are currently written in the draft law of Tallinn University of Technology could be written into the current university law if there were political will, making it a little more flexible, but still sticking to the system that one law organises the life of public universities. A separate question is indeed the University of Tartu, which has a separate law, because it has evolved over time. What is your personal opinion on the relationship between special laws and general laws?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U110	Thank you. The broader context here is, of course, that legal persons governed by public law in Estonia generally have their own special laws. Universities are, in this sense, already exceptions to the fact that their activities are regulated in a uniform manner by the University Act. I think that basically this question can be approached both ways. One option really is to make the university law more flexible and thus bring about the same changes. Another option is to create specific laws. I consider it appropriate to note that when the Riigikogu approves the Tallinn University of Technology Act, the Ministry of Education and Research has no reason to tell other public universities that they cannot apply for a special law after that. If other universities then want to have a special law, the Ministry of Education must also deal with these issues more seriously. This is the place of a broader political decision whether we are based on the fact that all universities in general are governed by university law, or whether we are making our own special law for all public universities. The Riigikogu also needs to hold a discussion here. Finally, I note what I did not say in my presentation that the Tallinn University of Technology, like the University of Tartu, has a very symbolic meaning for the existence of its law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U111	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U112	Minister, thank you very much. As you said, one of the objectives of the draft law is to establish a clause in § 9, which provides for the creation of professorships for teaching, research and development of technical sciences at the Technical University, which would receive special funding. I remembered that when the law of the University of Tartu was made, professors of national sciences were created. I am currently reading the law of the University of Tartu, but I can't find it anymore. But indeed, in areas that are important to him, every Estonian higher education institution may want to do so. Is it even right that any major is created on the basis of one law, apart from the rest of the legislation on the basis of which professorships have been created in higher education institutions?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U113	Thank you for your question. I have not reviewed the law of the University of Tartu recently, but in the draft law of the Tallinn University of Technology we have thought of it in such a way that the performance contracts also provide for the specific professorships that universities must have and which go under state budget funding. Basically, I think that there is nothing wrong with this direction, where every university has agreed, socially important professorships determined and funded from the state budget. Certainly, however, this circle should not be extended indefinitely, so that all universities consider all of their professors to be of national importance somehow, because it would put this room of play a little too close. But we have basically always believed that universities in Estonia could specialise a little in order to avoid duplication. So, in itself, I do not see the danger you mentioned here in this way.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U114	Maimu Berg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U115	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I would like to ask about the University of Tartu, which has its own special law. In passing, you said that the existence of a special law is symbolic. If these laws were harmonised, how would you feel if the University of Tartu were the only one to maintain its own special law and perhaps even to supplement it? We know that during the first republic, President Päts went to it and it didn't end very well for him. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U116	I am not sure if I understood the question correctly. But as regards the law of Tallinn University of Technology and the University of Tartu and, in general, these special laws, as I said, there is definitely a problem here. If we do this law for another university, Tallinn University of Technology, it will probably mean that at some point all public universities have their own special law. This will certainly, on the one hand, solve some of the concerns that I was talking about, the renewal of the management structure, etc., but, on the other hand, it will quite severely reduce flexibility from the perspective of universities. If they wanted to change any of their organisational aspects in the future, the law should be amended. For example, I can say that when the Tallinn University of Technology Act was made, the University of Tartu expressed its wish that they would like to change something in their law. Of course, we don't put any more of this in this bill. But we all know that it takes time to change laws, and if the university flexibly wants to reorganize things, but everything is fixed in a special law, then this process becomes more complicated. This is the place of political decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U117	Barbi Pilvre, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U118	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. You claimed that, after the possible adoption of the Technical University law, other public universities would probably want their own law in the long term. Do you see the possibility of imposing any restrictions here, depending on the size of the university, international level, or reputation?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U119	If we look at our public universities and are based on what their specific orientation and role in society is, I think that all Estonian public universities are able to formulate the need for this law very rightly and rightly. This concerns the Estonian Academy of Arts, the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre, Tallinn University, certainly also the Estonian University of Life Sciences. So I think it's very difficult to limit it somehow. However, as in the case of the Tallinn University of Technology Act, the Ministry will keep this line in the future, that the initiative to create a special law must come from the university itself and must be clearly justified as to why the general regulation of the university law does not satisfy this university. As I said, basically I consider it unlikely that if another public university comes to the ministry with a request for the creation of a special law, there would be some reason for the ministry to reject it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U120	The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. Thank you, Minister. The Commission's rapporteur is Lauri Luik, Chairman of the Committee on Culture. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U121	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Cultural Commission discussed draft Tallinn University of Technology Act 619 at its meeting on Monday, 7 April. Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Education and Science, Indrek Reimand, Deputy Chancellor of the Ministry of Education and Research, and Heddi Lutterus, Head of the Legal Department were invited to the meeting. I will not go over what the Minister pointed out in his presentation at length and in depth. I will conclude, however, that if we can do anything at the legislative level to help our public universities perform their functions better, then we are certainly prepared to do so. The Tallinn University of Technology Act is a good example of this. After the Minister had briefed the Commission on the content of the draft law, a debate took place. In the course of this, the minister pointed out what he mentioned here today, that although this is a draft law of the Tallinn University of Technology, this debate could be accompanied by a broader debate on whether all public universities should have their own law or whether they could continue to organise university activities in some other way, as is currently the case under university law. Indrek Reimand, Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of Education and Research, said that the Ministry's approach has been such that if an initiative has come from a university, the subject has been dealt with. As has been said, the initiative came from the Tallinn University of Technology itself. The members of the committee examined whether, apart from Tallinn University of Technology, another public university has shown interest in obtaining its own law. It was said that there has not been such an initiative so far, but in the light of this draft, other public universities might also have this interest. It was also examined whether university law alone was sufficient. After all, the chapters of the University Act could be amended, for example, to lay down general provisions for modern governance models; more precise arrangements could be contained in the statutes of universities. The representatives of the Ministry replied that the current university law cannot be supplemented in this way, as it should then be completely rewritten. It was also examined whether the management models of the University of Tartu and Tallinn University of Technology were similar, and it was recognised that they were very similar management models, but the names of the bodies are different. The Minister expressed his view that the different names could be a little confusing in a large way and it would therefore be a good idea to harmonise them. It was also examined whether the draft had been agreed with the Council of Rectors, and it turned out that coordination had not been sought from the Council of Rectors. The Committee on Culture will send the draft itself to the Council of Rectors, and we will be waiting for their response by 2 May. After the debate, the Commission decided unanimously to put draft 619 on the agenda of the plenary session by today, 16 April, to propose that the first reading of the draft be closed and that ten working days be fixed for the deadline for tabling amendments. The rapporteur was appointed unanimously here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U122	Any questions for the Commission's waitress? There are no questions. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish to negotiate. With regard to the first reading of draft 619, the Commission has proposed that the first reading should be concluded. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 619 amendments. a 2 May at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U123	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the University Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the University of Applied Sciences Act and the Law on the Organisation of Research and Development. On behalf of the initiator, I would like to ask for a presentation of the speech chair by Minister of Education and Science Jevgeni Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U124	Thank you. I will briefly introduce the draft law amending the University Act, the University of Applied Sciences Act and the Law on the Organisation of Research and Development. The bill package is much thicker than the draft law package of the Technical University, but the content is much easier. It aims to amend the regulation of the University Act and the University of Applied Sciences Act on the conclusion of employment contracts with academic staff. The aim is to bring agreements with lecturers and researchers into line with both the principles of the Estonian Employment Contracts Act and the general norms in the European Union. Employment relationships are generally based on fixed-term employment contracts. So far, the Code provides for a distinction in the case of academic staff that, in principle, these people are selected by competition for a post for a period of five years, which makes their contracts time-limited. The amendment removes this distinction with regard to academic staff, with a continuous system of termination of contracts and new awards being replaced by an open-ended contract award system. The only distinction that remains is that of rectors, rectors and guest lecturers, with whom fixed-term contracts can continue to be concluded. Currently, fixed-term employment contracts are concluded with academic staff, as stated, and the current work of the candidates will be assessed in the course of the competition. The aim of this regulation has been to launch a new competition every five years to ensure the hiring of the best teachers and researchers. This is a legitimate desire in itself, but on the other hand, when we approach matters from the point of view of worker protection, it clearly adds uncertainty to their lives. We are not based on the actual nature of the post, but on what we would like to achieve in the university system. This is not fair to their employees. Now we want to make this regulation similar to that of the General Employment Contracts Act, so that everyone generally has an open-ended contract of employment. Of course, the issue of quality assurance will continue to remain topical. To this end, we foresee that for a period of five years, the university will at least once assess those people who work for an indefinite period of time. This should ensure that they meet the requirements. The Act enters into force on 1 January 2015. I would add that the European Commission has also drawn the Estonian state's attention to the fact that the current regulation of fixed-term employment contracts for researchers and academics may run counter to the general principles of the European Union. So let's work this out so that our researchers and faculty can do their job well without insecurity! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U125	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions for the Minister. Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mart Meri, Member of the Cultural Committee of the Chair, for a co-report!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U126	Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Culture discussed this draft with number 625 at its meeting on 7 April. The draft was presented by Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Education and Science. Indrek Reimand, Heddi Lutterus and Janne Pukk were also explaining and commenting. I will repeat briefly what has been discussed in the Commission. The aim of the draft is to bring the employment contracts with academic staff under the University Act and the University of Applied Sciences Act into line with the relevant Council of Europe Directive on the organisation of fixed-term employment contracts. The motivation for the amendments has been the reasoned opinion of the European Commission, which was sent to the Republic of Estonia on 25 October 2012 and according to which there have been no measures in Estonian law to prevent the malicious use by the employer of successive fixed-term employment contracts. In addition, the Ministry of Education and Research has decided to harmonise employment contracts under the R &amp; D Organisation Act by means of the draft, so that the employment relations of academic staff are dealt with in the same way in Estonian legislation. In essence, this is the general basis of the contract of employment, which is that the contract of employment is concluded without a time limit with a considerable extension of the scope of influence in the case of employment contracts with academic staff. In Estonia's practice, temporary employment contracts are usually concluded with lecturers and researchers for up to five years. According to the general principle of labour law, fixed-term employment contracts can only be awarded if justified by compelling reasons relating to the temporary nature of the work. In fact, a lecturer and research worker's work is generally of a temporary nature not. The contradiction with the directive lies in the fact that when concluding or extending fixed-term employment contracts, the employer is not based on the "foreview," the actual nature of the job or position, whether it is temporary or permanent, but on the "retrospect" of the employee's achievements to date. At the same time, it is clear that ordinary lecturers or research staff must meet academic requirements and post-level requirements. Consequently, the obligation for higher education institutions to be accredited at least once every five years shall be laid down for their regular lecturers and researchers. This will link the content of the draft to the current system and ensure that the skills of teachers and researchers meet the academic requirements of the post. In other words, if so far a trial has taken place at the time of the conclusion or extension of a fixed-term contract, then in the future the trial will take place as an accreditation within the framework of an open-term contract. It is important to note that, in the event of a negative assessment result, the contract can only be cancelled under the conditions and in accordance with the procedures laid down in the Employment Contracts Act, with clear reasons. At the same time, the termination of the contract of employment is not mandatory and the employer may also make different decisions to help improve the performance of the employee. These were the main issues that we discussed in the Commission's debate. The explanatory memorandum to the draft is extremely comprehensive. It analyses the economic and social impact of the changes. Generally speaking, the cost-effectiveness from the employer's point of view should increase, while from the employee's point of view, his position in the law of the contract of employment should improve. With regard to the table of coordination, it was said that few disagreements with the respondents were resolved during the work. After the debate, the Committee on Culture took the following decisions with one vote: to put the draft on the agenda of the plenary session today, 16 April, to propose that the plenary assembly should close its first reading and set ten working days for the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U127	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you, Mart Meri! Do you want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. The commission's proposal was to conclude the first reading of draft 625. The first one's over. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 625 amendments. a 2 May at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U128	Our seventh item on the agenda today is the first reading of draft Act 614 on the ratification of the Estonian-Russian border agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Russian Federation and the Narva-Finnish Gulf Sea area delimitation agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Russian Federation. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair by Minister of Foreign Affairs Urmas Paet!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U129	Good afternoon, honourable Members of the Riigikogu. In order to ratify the Riigikogu, the Government has submitted a draft law on the ratification of the treaty between Estonia and Russia and the agreement between Estonia and Russia on the delimitation of the sea area. The treaties were signed by the Estonian and Russian Foreign Minister on 18 February this year. The ratification of the border agreements between Estonia and Russia does not affect the legal continuity of the Republic of Estonia. Much has been said about this, but I would like to reiterate here that the Treaty on a State Border regulates exclusively matters relating to a state border. The agreements contain a reference to the lack of mutual territorial requirements. These last two sentences also contain the main amendment made to the texts of these agreements compared to the 2005 agreements. The creation and declaration of the Republic of Estonia in 1918 is enshrined in our Constitution. The constitutional continuity of the Republic of Estonia will continue to apply after ratification of these agreements. 11 months ago, Chancellor of Justice Indrek Teder confirmed the above in his position to the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu on the Estonian-Russian border agreements. According to the Chancellor of Justice's analysis, the conclusion of the agreement between Estonia and the Russian state border, as stated in the draft, does not affect the validity of the Tartu Peace Treaty as a basis for Estonian statehood and as a bearer of the continuity of the Republic of Estonia. In international relations, the principle is that the border between neighbouring countries must be clearly, concretely and unambiguously defined. Neither country, nor their economy, nor their inhabitants will benefit from uncertainty. Any bilateral agreement and fixing of borders will add and strengthen security. Given the Russian-Ukraine conflict, the conclusion, ratification and enforcement of border agreements are still necessary, with a clear security policy dimension. The signing of border agreements between Estonia and Russia has been welcomed, among other things, by the Secretary-General of NATO, the President of the European Commission and by many of our allies, including Germany, the United States, Sweden, Turkey and Poland. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the external borders of NATO and the European Union with Russia will also be established when these agreements are enforced. Border agreements are needed to make them less likely to create misunderstandings and misinterpretations about national territories, which, I believe, is in all our interests. The history of concluding border agreements between Estonia and Russia is long, the way to them has been difficult and time- and labour-intensive. I would like to thank everyone who has worked hard to conclude contracts in this process, including the Riigikogu, who unanimously proposed that the government resume consultations with the Russian side in autumn 2012 so that the border agreements can finally become effective. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U130	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? Please, Andrus Ansip!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U131	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister, how do you imagine a further process of ratification here in the Riigikogu? When do you think the next steps should be taken?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U132	This is, of course, first of all Parliament's decision, but my idea is that the Committee on Foreign Affairs, in cooperation with colleagues from the Russian Parliament, will determine how and at what pace the Russian Parliament will proceed with the ratification of these border agreements. Due to their attitude and pace, the Estonian Parliament would also shape the position when the second reading of the draft ratification of these agreements should take place. We must certainly take into account what the Russian side is doing with these agreements in its parliamentary process.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U133	Thank you. Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U134	Thank you. Minister, during the negotiations on border agreements, you have been based on the Estonian SSR border. This has been consistent with Estonia's position, although it is contrary to Estonia's security and economic interests. You have not been negotiating on the basis of the Tartu Peace Treaty, which is in accordance with international law, and is currently legally in force. We have not taken advantage of our legal options, but we have justified our behaviour and have actually apologised for the situation that has developed. Thus, in the current difficult security policy situation, we have actually started to support Russia's ambitions and pave the way for an attitude that trans-national relations and border issues must be guided by the situation that has developed, not by the legal basis. In practical terms, however, some of Georgia and Crimea are currently under the control of Russia.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U135	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U136	With this example, we are damaging the security situation...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U137	Please ask me a question! Time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U138	... and contribute to the destruction of the territorial integrity of both Georgia and Ukraine. Tell me, why are we doing this?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U139	However, the main reason for concluding and ratifying border agreements is a security policy view of the future. If, now, after more than 20 years of this process, we can agree with our neighbour on a state border that both sides accept, we will take off the agenda one important open question. It is no secret to anyone that open questions concerning territories and borders are, unfortunately, often the source of major problems. It is therefore clearly a security policy step that also takes into account the future. The argument that the Estonian SSR border is the basis is not correct. Estonia has never based its border negotiations on any Estonian SSR border. Based on legal continuity, these talks of the border treaty, which began already in the early 1990s, have been based on the existing objective of agreeing a state border between Estonia and Russia, which both parties clearly recognise. And the background and basis was, is and can only be the country border previously agreed between Estonia and Russia, which was defined by the Tartu Peace Treaty in 1920.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U140	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U141	Thank you, Minister. When I came to this Riigikogu, I took an oath in this Chamber and said that I would remain true to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. I think that many members of the Riigikogu have not really taken note of the content of this oath. § 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia says: "The land area, territorial waters and airspace of Estonia are an integral and indivisible whole. Estonia is a single country on a national basis, the administrative division of its territory is laid down by law. ' § 162 of the Constitution says: 'Chapter I 'General provisions' of the Constitution' and Chapter XV 'amendment of the Constitution' can only be amended by a referendum. " Why is there no crucial bill currently being dealt with to decide on it? This is, in fact, the most important referendum organised in recent times?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U142	As far as I am aware, foreign agreements are not put to a constitutional referendum. § 122 of the Constitution states clearly that the Estonian land border is determined by the Tartu Peace Treaty and other international border agreements. As you know, over these years, all kinds of legal analyses have been ordered repeatedly, including from all the Chancellors of Justice who have been in office during this period. All parties concerned have made clear assessments of the legal aspects of the contracts as a result of the analyses carried out. If you remember, in 2005 the Estonian Riigikogu ratified the border treaty. If the Russian side had not started making its own moves at that time, these agreements would have been in force for nine years now. And these contracts could not have been concluded in 2005 if they had not been in conformity with the Constitution. So the treaties are in accordance with the Constitution, and there is no breach of the legal continuity of our country. This, as I reiterate, has been repeatedly confirmed by all the Chancellors of Justice, as well as by the different compositions of the Government and the Riigikogu. By the way, for the first time, the border agreements and the border line were in principle approved as early as 1996.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U143	Thank you. Please, Rait Maruse!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U144	Thank you. Dear Minister, I share and support the views expressed by you both in your presentation and in answering the questions. But do you know any recent steps or attitudes taken by the other side? How do they intend to proceed with the ratification of the Treaty?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U145	The latest information is that the Russian side has sent a package of treaty ratifications to the government authorities for coordination. After that, the government can decide to send a draft to their parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U146	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U147	Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, Are there any other countries in the European Union that do not have a border agreement with a neighbour?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U148	It is difficult for me to answer about all the borders of all the countries of the European Union. The last thing we remember about the dispute here a few years ago was the dispute between Slovenia and Croatia over a certain section of the border, but it has now largely been resolved. There are certainly no acute border disputes. Whether each section of the border is covered by a specific contract, I can't tell you, most certainly are. As far as Russia and the countries of the European Union bordering it are concerned, Estonia is currently the only country of the European Union bordering Russia, with which border agreements are not in force.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U149	Thank you. Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U150	Minister, you said that further processing will depend on what the Russian side is doing in its Parliament. At the same time, this document has not reached Parliament at all there. To what extent do you think we can take Russia and the Russian Parliament seriously as a party to a credible agreement on international law after what has happened in Crimea? The Crimean invasion was sanctioned by the same parliament whose steps we are now waiting for. Many international organisations, such as ENPA, took away voting rights from Russia last week. How do you feel about Parliament, which is violating international law, and for whom many other parties think that it needs to be deprived of voting rights?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U151	Yeah, so that's the vote in a particular international context. But all the steps taken by the Russian Parliament in the use of force, both in Crimea and elsewhere in Ukraine, have been strongly condemned and we want these decisions to be annulled. At the same time, Estonia should not go along with the game, so that international law no longer applies and we should somehow return to the pre-contractual period.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U152	Thank you. Please, Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U153	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable Urmas! We are now handing over a pretty large plot of land and a pretty large sea cobbler with a very specific financial value. What do we receive in the same monetary currency?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U154	The agreement that is now before you is the maximum that has been possible to achieve over 20 years in order for the country border agreement with Russia to come into effect and we can solve this major problem. As far as I know, money trading has not been launched in border talks in the past either.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U155	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U156	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! You've been in this process for a long time. Unfortunately, I've been watching the game like an spectator, and it seemed to me that the border treaty was grunting and lingering for a long time. Russia played offended, until a moment suddenly arose where Moscow was interested in signing the treaty. I saw the ceremony myself on TV, and the Russian Foreign Minister was very happy when he signed it. Wasn't there a way to ask them anything, even if it was the president's office or something else? It seemed that the situation had changed in some way. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U157	In my opinion, the assumption that Russia needs these border agreements more than Estonia is flawed. These talks were able to talk about a specific border agreement in substance. And if the assumption is that it was as if the Russian side needed this treaty more, then I will say again that it is not quite right. Clear fixing of the border is needed on both sides. It is not right to assume that one needs it more for some reason.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U158	Thank you. Please, Priit Onion!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U159	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Given the current situation in both security and other spheres, how quickly do you consider it possible for the Riigikogu to adopt this draft as a law? Will this happen again this year and certainly during this parliamentary term?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U160	It makes no sense for me to speculate very much about this. As I have already said, it is important to bear in mind when the Russian Parliament starts the ratification process, how and at what pace they plan to move forward in the Estonian Parliament when choosing the pace to proceed with the process. You yourself know the parliamentary procedures well, you know how quickly it is possible to do something in theory. However, since this is a decision to ratify a bilateral agreement, it is also important to look at what the other party is doing in the ratification process.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U161	Thank you. Please, Andres Herkel, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U162	Thank you. Dear Minister, I will return to my previous question. I certainly do not expect that we must leave the level of international law, that is certainly not. The question, however, is why we are several steps ahead of Russia in the ratification process. Why aren't we acting the way you pointed out? The request to revoke the recent decisions of this Parliament and to end the occupations should go ahead with this process. Don't you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U163	I told you there was a requirement. It exists as a joint demand both for us and for the whole of the European Union. But I come once again to my introductory point: I think that there is, however, a clear security policy dimension to the existence of national border agreements, also in view of the future. Therefore, I do not think it would be wise not to proceed at all with the process of fixing a state border.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U164	Thank you. Please, Peter Võsa, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U165	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! If there has been no financial trade and we know what the benefits of this agreement will be for Russia, it may be reasonable to ask what benefits we will get. But I'd like to ask who's going to benefit from it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U166	I think that the whole of Estonian society will benefit if, after all, we have a clearly fixed border with Russia. If both sides accept this border, we can finally take off the agenda a subject that potentially involves major problems. We all know about European history, including the recent past, how the issues of territories and clearly indefinite borders have created all kinds of misunderstandings and more serious concerns.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U167	Thank you. Please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U168	Thank you, manager. Good minister! Am I right to understand that there is still a limit to the peace of Tartu? That we can't talk that we don't have a limit? I also have the question of whether we can really talk about border agreements if the other side is a country that does not respect any of the borders, either literally or indirectly.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U169	First of all, to clarify the current situation, yes, on our side de jure is as if the post-Tartu peace border is. At the same time, it is a fact that the Estonian border guard has not checked it for a long time. However, this is a reality and we must also talk about it. As far as the other parties are concerned, once again, Russia's behaviour in Crimea and elsewhere in Ukraine has been unequivocally condemned. This has been done by the international community, including the European Union and NATO, of which we are a member. But if you look at the draft on your desk, I will say for the third time in this quarter of an hour that relations with Russia have an important security dimension in addition to other aspects of the border issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U170	Thank you. Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U171	Thank you. Minister, you said that the existence of a border agreement is a guarantee of future security. I believe that no one in this Chamber is arguing about the need for a border agreement on both sides. The question is which border agreement and under what conditions. You also referred to the 2005 procedure and, consequently, I would remind you that in 2005 Parliament added a reference to Tartu peace on a proposal from the Chancellor of Justice. How will the deletion of this reference improve our legal and security policy situation? How does it give us stronger guarantees if we leave it out of the preamble now?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U172	First of all, I have not come up with such an ambitious statement that the border agreement with Russia is a guarantee of Estonia's security. However, the guarantee of Estonia's security is above all our membership of NATO and other international organisations and the strength of our own society. These are guarantees. I actually said that border agreements have a security policy dimension. Yeah, I'm sure it is. As regards the Preamble, in 2005 Parliament made a statement and added a preamble to the ratification decision, including a reference to the Tartu Peace Treaty. In this draft, which you have on the table, the text of the agreement has been supplemented, inter alia, by a sentence which states very clearly that the agreements only deal with border issues, which means that there is now no room for quite broad interpretation, which seemed to have existed in 2005. The Chancellor of Justice has also expressed the same view. There is therefore no need for any legal clarification in itself. The agreements themselves clearly state that border agreements only deal with border issues. So there is no room for all the fears, interpretations and speculations on the issue of legal continuity that was presented in 2005, this time. The Chancellor of Justice has also made this very clear.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U173	Thank you. Please, Väino Linde!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U174	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Could you explain a little about the development of the agreement on the delimitation of sea areas and perhaps more specifically about the island of the famous or notorious Vaindloo and the whole triangle? How has it now proved to be entirely on the other side of the border? What was the basis and reason for this agreement?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U175	As far as the delimitation of maritime areas is concerned, unlike the land border, the Republic of Estonia and the Soviet Union or the Russian Federation did not have any agreement prior to the Second World War. In this regard, the negotiations had to be based on international law, that is, the Law of the Sea, which quite precisely states how sea borders are to be determined between countries. The border line in the Gulf of Narva and Finland begins to run along the calculated centre line, which is drawn so that each point is equally distant from the nearest points on the low coast of both countries. This midline method is a fully recognised way of establishing maritime borders under the International Law of the Sea. This is the basis on which the sea border between Estonia and Russia is indicated in this agreement. This is the answer to how this sea area border has developed. This is due to the international law of the sea.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U176	Thank you. Please, Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U177	Thank you, good manager. Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! Apart from the general media picture and the events in Ukraine, has there been any direct contact with the other party since the signing of the agreement in Moscow? Has there been any signal suggesting that the ratification of the treaties will be slowed down there? Or is there no such signal?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U178	No, there's no such information. As I said, the only information that is available is that there is a coordination process before parliamentary procedure. This is the latest, relatively recent information.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U179	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U180	Thank you. Dear Minister, I very much ask you to be more precise in your wording. You said that on 9 October 2012 there was a consensus in the Riigikogu, as if a 100% agreement to give the Government of the Republic the right to start negotiations in order to reach a border agreement. I would like to inform you, for your information, that I have this proposal here in writing, that only one of the non-group MPs signed it. However, I will also touch on a subject such as Article 8, which ends with words: other economic activities in border waters and different aspects of the national border regime are regulated by separate agreements. You have said that this agreement will provide a security guarantee, but later you have changed your wording. Please tell me which agreements will be added to this agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U181	You don't have to add anything directly. It is rather a question of the possibility that perhaps half of Estonia and Russia want to regulate something with official agreements, such as the organisation of fishing operations, some kind of rescue agreements or whatever, concerning activities whose effects may extend beyond the border line. There's no obligation to do anything else. There are no extra contracts. It is more an opportunity to enter into administrative agreements than there are any specific problems relating to the border or the surrounding area.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U182	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U183	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! I listened to your explanation for the Vaindloo problem. You touched the airline for a moment, but you only explained the sea border. There's a problem with land borders, sea borders and air borders that don't overlap. They go along different lines. The Russian plane has repeatedly snatched into our territory for a minute, crossed our sea border, but remained within its airline. Therefore, Russia has never responded to the relevant notes sent to Russia by a proper symphony. The whole point is that sea borders and air borders should be brought into line. Is this Vaindloo problem solved or not solved?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U184	One option is to regulate this issue in the emergency agreement prepared by the Home Offices and designated areas where there is one side and where there is the responsibility of the other side. Unfortunately, the conclusion of this agreement has not yet been reached. But in itself, yes, there are technical concerns about the small angles you mentioned. One way to find a solution is to enter into an agreement that I mentioned.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U185	Thank you. Please, Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U186	Thank you. Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, What is your message to those skeptics who say that the parliament of the Republic of Estonia is rushing the Riigikogu to ratify the border treaty?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U187	I will once again explain the basic attitude that I have expressed so far. This whole process concerning the Estonian-Russian border agreements has, we all know, been going on for 22 years. It can be assessed in the same way whether 22 years is a short or long time to live with a temporary control line and try to normalise the situation so that there is still a state border with a state border regime accepted by both parties. Apparently, that assessment is subjective. The second approach is how realistic it would be to expect a situation to be different after some time in the future. For example, what if we could agree on a different line of line? We have a realistic assessment opportunity. And a third assessment is also necessary. Looking ahead, we still have to keep in mind the same security policy dimension and ask what Estonia has to win in terms of security policy if we continue to keep this subject open, if we continue to be in a situation where we have a different understanding with the Russian state of where the border between us should be. I don't think we have much to gain from this situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U188	Thank you. Please, Aivar Chef, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U189	Good manager! Good waitress! When discussing this agreement, is it meant that in Narva, the cooling water buttons of our power plants are now on the other side of the border? Is it also meant to be a new pump and pipeline transport or something else to cool the power plant in such a situation if someone press the button on the other side to open the locks?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U190	First of all, as you probably know, nothing changes compared to the situation that has prevailed during the restored independence of the Republic of Estonia all the time. I'm sure it's not right to tell you that now maybe there's something on the other side. In our energy, including Narva's hydroelectric power plant, nothing will become worse when the border agreements enter into force than the current situation, and in recent decades at all. Energy companies was agreed by Estonia by Eesti Energia and by Russia on the technology and they can do so in the future. It is already a decision on whether it is necessary for the ministries responsible for energy to enter into an official agreement or whether it is enough to have an agreement between companies. This option goes under the very eighth article we discussed earlier. On the other hand, when it comes to energy security in Estonia in general, the fact that we are now also connected to the Nordic electricity networks Estlink 1 and Estlink 2 makes our energy security situation quite different when it was a few years ago. This should also be borne in mind as a background.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U191	Thank you. Please, Andrus Ansip, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U192	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! My understanding of the boundaries is that, as a rule, the boundary of territorial waters does not overlap with the sea rescue border or with the airspace border controlled by the air traffic control unit. With regard to Vaindloo Island, there is a kind of expectation that in the future the border of the state, the airspace border controlled by the air traffic control centre, the sea rescue border and a number of other borders should overlap. Is this expectation justified in any way?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U193	There can be all kinds of expectations, can't there? But in that sense, of course, you're right that it is. State borders related to air traffic control may not coincide with land and often do not. The air traffic control boundaries are drawn in the most reasonable and rational way, the most appropriate for aviation safety. The same goes for sea rescues. In this sense, yes, it is not proper to assume a priori that land or sea borders are also one of the limits of air traffic control. This is often not the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U194	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Foreign Minister Urmas Paet! I would like to ask Marko Mihkelson, Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U195	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The contemporary relations between Estonia and Russia have gone through the tides, and the main current has been everything that has been linked to the break-up of the Soviet Union to one degree or another. Especially in recent weeks, what is happening in Ukraine confirms that the Kremlin maintains an understanding: the collapse of the Soviet Union was the biggest geopolitical disaster of the 20th century and must be reversed in one way or another. Such thinking certainly does not benefit from relations with neighbours who want to be free and democratic countries. In the last 20 years, Estonia and other Baltic countries have managed to do more than ever in the history of self-being to consolidate their sovereignty. The Baltic countries were first able to find rapid international support for the departure of Russian units in 1994 and then join both the European Union and NATO. If the first step had not been successful, the other two would have lingered, and it would have already been almost impossible for us to be as successful as in 2004. The window of possibilities for history that President Lennart Meri once referred to closed behind us. Now we see how difficult it is for Georgia to even achieve the NATO membership agenda and for Ukraine to approach the European Union. In today's Russian foreign policy, the rejection of Western interests and presence in the space of the former empire has still been at the forefront. In recent years, it has become much more powerful and, in the case of Georgia and Ukraine, the use of conventional force has not been prevented. In view of this background system, in the last few dozen years, Estonian governments have focused on the tactics of small steps in their relations with Russia. We agree on what is possible and in a way that does not harm our interests. One open topic has been the issue of Estonian-Russian border agreements throughout the ages. In international relations, the principle is that borders with neighbouring countries are fixed by agreements, so the existence of border agreements is a rule rather than an exception. As early as the early 1990s, Estonia was recognised that concluding border agreements with Russia would have a positive impact on our security. This will help to increase stability and predictability in relations between countries and will prevent possible misunderstandings and misunderstandings on an issue as important as national territories. A clearly established and marked border is therefore an essential security factor. Ladies and gentlemen, Today's debate is not the first time that the Riigikogu has discussed the ratification of the Estonian-Russian border treaties. On 20 June 2005, the composition of Riigikogu X, with 78 votes in favour, approved the draft Act on the ratification of the Treaty between the Republic of Estonia and the Russian Federation and the Treaty between the Republic of Estonia and the Russian Federation on the delimitation of sea areas in the Gulf of Narva and Finland. Two days later, the President of the Republic declared it a law. On 27 June 2005, however, the Russian side handed over a note announcing a plan to initiate internal procedures in order to abandon the signed agreements, referring to the incorrect assertion that the ratification law adopted by the Riigikogu added new aspects to the agreement. The Riigikogu had then supplemented the ratification law on the recommendation of Chancellor of Justice, Allar Jõks, on the grounds that the text of the Treaties at the time could leave room for malicious interpretation. This was the right decision, which ultimately led to the fact that the draft border agreements we are discussing today are much more legal and dispel the doubts raised in 2005. But just in line. During the hearings and a number of meetings of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the current Riigikogu, the lack of a border treaty has become one of the most important issues to be resolved in relations between the two neighbouring countries. At the same time, it has been clear that discussing problems in relations between Estonia and Russia and seeking solutions for them are difficult, if not impossible, without parliamentary diplomacy. As a result of the parliamentary dialogue restored in May 2012, meetings with the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Russian Federation Council took place in South Estonia and Pihkva in July 2012 to discuss cross-border cooperation projects. The meetings continued with the visit of the Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Federation Council to Moscow in November 2013 and the working visit of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu. In the light of the information received during the hearings of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the exchange of information at diplomatic level and the declaration made by the Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov on 1 September 2012, which confirmed Russia's readiness to start talks with Estonia on the conclusion of border agreements, a consensual decision was reached at the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on 9 October 2012 with the support of all the political groups of the Riigikogu and some of the non-groups, to present a proposal to the Government of the Republic to enter into consultations with the Russian Federation to find a way to conclude a border agreement satisfying both parties. This proposal was based on the knowledge that Estonia wishes to develop relations that respect each other's sovereignty and legal continuity with all its neighbouring countries, including Russia. The Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs received regular reviews of the rounds of consultations that started on 31 October 2012 from both the Foreign Minister and the diplomats who participated in the talks. During the hearings, the Committee on Foreign Affairs considered it necessary to stress that the whole process of the talks must be as open and transparent as possible. At the meeting held on 12 March 2013, the Committee on Foreign Affairs approved the activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs during consultations and found that it fully corresponds to the mandate given by the Riigikogu political groups. The Committee on Foreign Affairs also addressed Professor of International Law Lauri Mälksoo of the Faculty of Law of the University of Tartu for an opinion. In his opinion, Professor Mälksoo stressed that the additions made in the text of the agreement during the border consultations correspond to the main concern that the Riigikogu had when writing the preamble in 2005. He said: 'Estonia can, in contrast to the 'we agree to design' clause, remain unconcerned about the national continuity thesis. The honour and face of the Estonian Parliament have also survived, as the Preamble of 2005 has led us to today's wording. ' On 14 May 2013, the Committee on Foreign Affairs heard the Foreign Minister's overview of the progress of the border consultations and discussed the texts of the draft border agreements that were the result of the consultations. The Committee on Foreign Affairs unanimously decided to recognise the government's activities in border consultations and proposed that the government take further practical steps to finalise the border agreements. The Government of the Republic approved the draft agreements on 23 May last year. Even before the decision of the Government of the Republic, the Committee on Foreign Affairs also heard the Chancellor of Justice's position on draft border agreements. At the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on 21 May 2013, the Chancellor of Justice of the Republic of Estonia was represented by Nele Parrest, Deputy Adviser. According to the Chancellor of Justice, the conclusion of the Estonian-Russian state border agreement as proposed in the draft does not affect the validity of the Tartu Peace Treaty as an important basis for Estonian statehood and as a bearer of continuity of the Republic of Estonia. The Chancellor of Justice considers that the Tartu Peace Treaty, which is a symbol of continuity in Estonia and a birth certificate, does not differ in legal force from other transnational border agreements mentioned in § 122 (1) of the Constitution. This means, according to the Chancellor of Justice, that it is possible to determine the state border between the Republic of Estonia and the Russian Federation, in addition to the Tartu Peace Treaty, by means of other border agreements which partly amend the Tartu Peace Treaty. If a new border agreement is concluded between Estonia and Russia, as proposed in the draft, which will change the current Tartu Peace Treaty only in the part defining the state border, then the Tartu Peace Treaty will otherwise remain in force. This means that the principle of national continuity arising from the Preamble of the Constitution is protected, the value of which is borne by the Tartu Peace Treaty, while the Estonian Constitution also protects. According to the Chancellor of Justice, the added clause that the agreement relates exclusively to the state border is opposed to the risk of the agreement being interpreted against the will of the Republic of Estonia and also against the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. The Commission's meetings have also discussed decisions and actions that our ministries and other authorities need to take following the conclusion of border agreements, particularly with regard to the marking and construction of the Estonian state border, as well as the resolution of issues related to the state border on water bodies. Representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of the Environment, as well as the Police and Border Guard Board and the Maritime Administration have explained these issues to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The Committee on Foreign Affairs organised a trip to Narva and South-East Estonia on 13 and 14 March this year to get a better overview. In Narva, energetics were met and technical issues related to the management of the Narva reservoir dam were examined. A representative of the Police and Border Guard Board described the issues and problems encountered in their daily work in connection with the marking and surveillance of the current control line. The members of the Setomaa Support Group of the Riigikogu also joined the members of the Foreign Affairs Committee during the subsequent tour in South-East Estonia. At meetings with representatives of the Police and Border Guard Board, local government leaders and residents of the region, the main issues were the needs and opportunities for local residents to cross the border, the organisation of border crossings, the local road network and mobility opportunities, as well as opportunities for business development and cross-border cooperation. The discussion, which began in Setumaa, continued with a meeting of the Foreign Affairs Committee on 8 April, attended by representatives of the Seto Congress and the Setomaa Municipalities Association. The meeting expressed the hope that solutions could be found on some issues in the negotiations between the various Estonian and Russian authorities following the ratification of the border agreements, but it was also recognised that it is difficult to predict the will and readiness of the Russian authorities in the international situation that has now changed. At the same time, we can continue to stress the position expressed by the Riigikogu political groups in October 2012 that Estonia wishes to develop respectful relations with all its neighbouring countries, including Russia. The Foreign Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu started the preparation of draft Act 614 on the ratification of the Estonian-Russian border agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Russian Federation, initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia on 10 March this year, and of the Narva-Finnish Gulf Sea Area Delimitation Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Russian Federation for the first reading at its meeting on 18 March. The draft was presented and the Foreign Minister, Urmas Paet, answered questions from the members of the Commission. During the discussion, it was recognised that in a rapidly deteriorating security environment, Estonia needs a firmly fixed state border and a border agreement with its neighbour. At the same time, we need to know that the Russian Parliament is still ready to ratify the border agreements signed in Moscow on 18 February. The Committee on Foreign Affairs decided by consensus that it is right to proceed with the process of ratification of the border agreement in accordance with the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. Procedural decisions concerning the draft were adopted at the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on 7 April. First, to propose to the Riigikogu Board that draft 614 ratification of the border agreements be placed on the agenda of the plenary session by 16 April this year. Secondly, the proposal of the Committee on Foreign Affairs is to conclude the first reading and set a deadline of 10 working days, i.e. 2 May 2014, at 4 p.m. All procedural decisions were taken by consensus within the Commission. The Committee on Foreign Affairs also decided that, at the end of the first reading, progress will be made to second reading and also to the final vote only after the ratification process has started in the Russian Federation. It is also fully in line with the previous positions of Russian politicians, which expressed their desire to move towards a final decision at the same time as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U196	Thank you very much. Please, Imre Sooäär, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U197	Thank you, good manager. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! No one can predict history. No one can say for sure that in the future, perhaps in five, ten or fifty years, our eastern neighbours will be a completely different Russia, a completely different leader, a completely different structure and a different democracy than they are today. Does this agreement cement this border so that we can never get back the border areas of Tartu after the peace from a completely different Russia?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U198	Thank you, Imre, for this question. The national border agreement states in black that the parties do not have territorial requirements for each other. I think that, in this really international situation, especially when we look at the progress of events in Eastern Ukraine, this clause, which, by the way, asked the Russian side to sign the agreement, is very topical.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U199	Thank you. Please, Andrus Island!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U200	Thank you, Mr President. The rapporteur from the Commission. As you pointed out here, the Committee on Foreign Affairs met several times with representatives of border residents, including Setus. According to you, they had a number of problems not covered by the border agreements, but should be dealt with in other agreements. What were the issues that concern the border residents?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U201	This is a very important issue. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has also had a very good overview in previous years and close contacts with the leaders of the Setomaa Municipality Association and representatives of the Seto Congress. I remember that we also met before the ratification process in 2005. I have to say that in order to resolve the issues that sounded in this Chamber in 2005, the Government of the Republic has made significant investments in a large number of areas. For example, the road network and infrastructure as a whole have been improved. Over the years, Setumaa's cultural and other development programmes have proved to be very important instruments to promote local life and also cross-border cooperation. It must not be overlooked that Estonia's membership of the European Union has contributed greatly to the financing and implementation of cross-border projects. In the autumn of this year, I believe that there are two very important events for the local population. In our border regions of South-East Estonia, it is extremely important if the so-called Seto House is opened in Petseri at the end of September, and the work has been done for several years. And in the same way, the reconstruction of the enlightened highway of the Petser is coming to an end. The new financial perspective of the European Union will provide up to EUR 40 million for further projects in cross-border cooperation. In this respect, perhaps the main concern is that we were convinced of with our own eyes during the visit of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to South-East Estonia in March, namely the border crossing points. For example, at the crossing point of the Lüübnitsa-Medl, people are essentially cut off from the possibility of going to the church or cemetery on the island of Kolpino. This is particularly disturbing at church holidays. Hopefully, through bilateral negotiations, it will be possible to reopen this border crossing, even during church holidays. At the same time, the development of infrastructure so far has undoubtedly made border crossings considerably easier. One more moment: the bilateral border crossing agreement also provides for the border crossing of cars at the border crossing point of Saatse-Kruppa. You can't do that right now in real life. This is probably another reference to the Government of our Republic that, during the consultations on border crossing points, these issues must also be put on the agenda in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U202	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. We're opening negotiations. Please, Marianne Mikko, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U203	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable colleagues! The Social Democrats consider that the border legally fixed and mutually recognised with Russia by bilateral agreement is in the interests of the security of the Estonian state. This will eliminate any territorial demands from Russia and create a diplomatic mechanism to resolve any border issues that may arise. It should be stressed that the border agreement does not change the Tartu Peace Treaty. This will continue to apply in the future. This is why, at the request of Estonia, a clear provision has been included in the text of the border agreement according to which the agreement regulates only the border issue. Thus, the Treaty on the National Border does not assess the validity of Tartu Peace or the fundamental principles of Estonian statehood, in particular the legal continuity of the Estonian state. At the same time, the Estonian-Russian border agreement is not a magic wand, which would solve all the security and security problems in Estonia immediately. It is not a border treaty, no matter how long or in depth it has not been prepared and negotiated. Just as the history of Estonia and other Europe shows, diplomatic agreements must not only be prepared for real policy challenges. Other measures are naive today. When analysing the different arguments for and against Estonia's media and society as a whole on this subject, it should be noted that the clear and unambiguous border agreement and the resulting border with Russia have a more positive effect on Estonia's security and security than the vague status quo on our and the European Union's and NATO's eastern borders. The latest developments in Ukraine support rather than support this argument. The border agreement is not the end of the process, it is the beginning, because now Estonia, together with the European Union and NATO, must start to build a strong eastern border with Russia. Once again: all the governments of the Republic of Estonia, the main political parties and several well-known experts in international law confirm that this border agreement does not change the validity of the Tartu Peace Treaty in terms of Estonia's independence and continuity. Ratification of the Border Treaty without parliamentary declarations is also one of the promises of the 2011 Election Programme of the Social Democratic Party. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U204	Thank you very much. Please, on behalf of the Central Party Group, Mr Velman.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U205	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Minister of Foreign Affairs! Colleagues! Nine years ago, when the subject of ratification of the border treaty first came through this hall, I was also among the members of the Riigikogu who discussed it. Then there were plenty of those who thought that neither party should include a single word in the treaty at the time of ratification of the bilateral agreements, because it would change the attitude towards the treaty. It was then that 78 members of the Riigikogu really voted in favour of the Treaty. But in the end, Russia acted as it did because we changed the treaty in the form of a Preamble. I would rather talk about the fact that if we ratify the treaty on the national border, then the border problems will not end. Then more needs to be dealt with with the problems that are there. Marko Mihkelson spoke about these problems, and some delegates also asked questions about them. Indeed, a lot of work needs to be done to organise life so that people in Setumaa, in particular, can move more freely during holidays and other times, so that they can get across the border more freely in order to go to places where their loved ones are buried. This issue must continue to be discussed with Russia. The roads that have been freshly made with European money in Värska must also be repaired. You've got to put blueberries on them, because they're dusty and clayy in the fall. And if we don't get to the point where the blueberry comes in, these roads will soon be impenetrable. In summary, the Group of the Estonian Centre Party takes the view that, as Kadri Simson, Chairman of our Group, the border is better than alcohol. Of course, it's a matter of taste, but that's what we're sticking to. The Estonian Central Party Group supports the ratification of state border agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U206	Thank you very much. Please, on behalf of the Group of the Andrus Ansip Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U207	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am still convinced that regulated border relations are better than unregulated border relations. To confirm that, there was no need to come to the speaker's desk. The reason I came to this speaking board relates primarily to the fact that even some members of the Riigikogu tend to confuse the sea rescue border or the SAR border with the territorial waters of the country or the border of the economic zone. This SAR border, or sea rescue border, generally does not overlap with territorial waters or the exclusive economic zone. The Search And Rescue boundary is determined in particular on the basis of the state's ability to perform any rescue at sea and this limit may also be shifting. If one country has no capacity at any time, assistance will be requested from neighbouring countries and the SAR border may therefore temporarily shift. There is certainly no point in trying to reconcile, either with the territorial waters border or with the exclusive economic zone border, with the airspace border controlled by the air traffic control unit, or the FIR border. Flight Information Region is a thing that has been agreed since 1947. A controlled airspace of an air traffic control unit generally does not overlap with national borders. Normally, FIR borders are much wider than national borders. Therefore, I have a request: look very carefully at what line is drawn on the chart of the sea and, based on what line it is specifically about, start talking about whether Estonia is getting more or losing the sea by means of border agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U208	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, please present Marko Mihkelson.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U209	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I will not go over the points of the speech I made as Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, because also those points that I emphasised there, which relate above all to the activities of the Estonian state in the legal definition of our borders, have also been a very clear position for our party, for the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, over long years. I think that at least no international agreement is coming to me at this point in time; neither the Riigikogu nor the Estonian political parties have discussed as thoroughly and in detail in 20 years as the agreement between Estonia and Russia on the state border. In the last consultation process, which took place at the end of 2012 and at the beginning of 2013, the Group of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Association and the Council also held very in-depth discussions on the changes that should be reflected in this agreement, so that the principle of legal continuity of the Republic of Estonia is protected and that we can achieve a result that is very clearly in the interests of our country. In May of last year, before the government decided to approve the results of the consultations, the Council of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union gathered to discuss this issue. During a very thorough discussion, it was found that the results achieved are in the interests of the Republic of Estonia and that the Government of the Republic and, later on, Parliament should take decisions leading to the final entry into force of the Treaty. Throughout this process over the last two years, the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu and, in my opinion, all political parties represented in the Riigikogu have shown a state-manly attitude. This is particularly important now, when the situation is somewhat more critical for our security than it was a few years ago. There is no doubt that the legally defined border with the Russian Federation is an important additional factor in ensuring our security. We're not getting ahead of ourselves. There is currently no reason to argue that there is no process of ratification of border agreements in Russia. If this is really happening both here and there, and if there is a second reading and final vote, then the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance will support the final enforcement of the border agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U210	Thank you very much. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission's proposal was to conclude the first reading of draft 614. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments in s. a 2 May at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U211	We are going to the next item on the agenda today, which is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Act on the Implementation of the Common Agricultural Policy of the European Union, initiated by the Government of the Republic. To present the speech chair, Minister of Agriculture Ivari Padari!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U212	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The amendment of the law implementing the common agricultural policy is due to the need to align the rules in force with new EU legislation on the payment of direct payments and market management measures. Relevant acts of the European Parliament and of the Council were adopted at the end of last year, in December. Since 2004, Estonia has applied the single area payment only to agricultural land, which was in good agricultural condition as at 30 June 2003. Under such a clause, an increase in the area eligible for agricultural land has only been possible before accession to the area declared to the PRIA. In the course of the CAP reform, this restriction was repealed as of 2014. The amendment gives farmers the possibility to apply for a single area payment and other payments relating to the area of agricultural land in accordance with the actual area of agricultural land without the requirement of the reference year 2003 in force so far. The amendment also allows the boundaries of agricultural masses to be aligned with the limits of actual land use. The change increases the area of agricultural land used in Estonia. More than 8000 applications have been submitted to the PRIA to modify the agricultural land payment entitlements and it is estimated that this could increase the eligible area by approximately 1.6%, i.e. to a total of 935000 hectares. The provisions on measures for the common organisation of the market in agricultural products will be brought into line with those decided in 2013 in the Common Agricultural Policy Reform Agreement. These are technical changes and simplification or repeal of a number of obsolete schemes. This does not bring any particular change to the farms. In addition, the provisions on food aid in the European Union are deleted from the Common Agricultural Policy Act, as food aid will be financed from the European Fund for Aid to the Most Deprived as of 2014 under the European Social Fund. The law introduces a provision for the preparation of the provision of advisory support, as Article 15 (3) of Council Regulation No 1305/2013 requires the body or person providing advisory services to be selected in the tendering procedure governed by the law on public procurement. Given that the public procurement procedure may become quite time-consuming, it is necessary, in the interests of the rapid implementation of the proposed support for consultancy services, to start preparatory work for the conduct of the procurement procedure before laying down the rules governing the granting of the full grant in the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U213	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions, it's clear. Thank you very much, Minister of Agriculture. I would like to speak with Mr Mälberg, Member of the Rural Commission of the Speaker's Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U214	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Rural Affairs discussed the draft Act amending the Act on the Implementation of the Common Agricultural Policy of the European Union, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 628 at its meeting on 7 April. Mai Talvik, Head of the Agricultural Market Management Department of the Ministry of Agriculture, presented the draft to the Commission. Mai Talvik gave an overview of the draft law amending the law implementing the European Union's common agricultural policy, which aims to bring national law into line with the new European Union law. As a major change, he pointed out that when direct payments were applied for, the requirement of the reference year 2003 still in force would disappear and that direct payments could be applied for for all agricultural land actually used. The provisions concerning measures for the common market organisation of agricultural products, including those relating to the school fruit and school vegetables scheme, intervention purchases and producer organisations, are also specified. The Act is supplemented by an implementing provision which provides the opportunity to prepare for the selection of the advisory service provider. Many changes are of a simplifying and technical nature. Mai Talvik answered the questions of the members of the committee, and after the debate the Rural Affairs Committee took the following decisions: to propose to the Riigikogu Bureau that the draft be placed on the agenda of the 628 plenary sitting on 16 April 2014, to appoint Meelis Mälberg, member of the rural committee, to propose that the first reading of the draft 628 be completed and that the deadline for amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 23 April 2014. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U215	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Ladies and gentlemen, any requests? No calls, no negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 628. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments in s. April 23, 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U216	Our ninth item on the agenda today is the first reading of the draft law amending the Fisheries Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. For a presentation, please, Minister of the Environment of the Chair Keit Pentus-Rosimannus.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U217	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Dear Members, You are facing amendments to the Fisheries Act today, which will contribute to the sound management of our fish stocks. Overall, the stock situation in the Baltic Sea has improved in recent years. But in order for Estonian fishermen to be able to engage in fishing in a calm manner in the future, it is necessary to improve the management of fishing activities from time to time. The current situation is that Estonia has established fishing opportunities at sea by county. As you can imagine, there are no county borders at sea, and so we can say that the current situation is somewhat confusing. The legislative amendment before you would allow for future distribution of fishing opportunities by fishing grids, which would allow fishing to take place according to the actual state of the stocks and also to specify more precisely the places where the traps are to be deployed. The draft also proposes to make the regulation on herring fishing rights more flexible. Fishermen will have the opportunity to exchange fishing rights in accordance with their historical fishing rights. Those companies and companies interested in catching herring in the Baltic Sea opening would be able to dispose of their historic right to fish in the Gulf of Riga and instead to acquire the right to fish in the Baltic Sea opening, and vice versa. At present, fishing opportunities in the Baltic Sea and the Gulf of Riga were added up and then distributed proportionally among fishermen. The draft also proposes to amend the law so that fishermen will retain their historic fishing rights in the future even if they have not exercised this right for more than three years, but have exchanged it for another fishing right either in Estonia or abroad. One formal but still important innovation that will make life easier for fishermen is the provision of information to the state. The fisheries undertaking will be able to submit the data, notifications and applications related to fishing activities electronically and digitally signed. This is an opportunity that I think should be self-evident now in every area where a person is communicating with a country. The last change I bring up concerns control of catching vessels. According to the bill in front of you, it's gonna get tougher. Overfishing is quite a problem in Europe, and the engine power of fishing vessels certainly plays a role in this. Currently, an increase in engine power is prohibited for registered vessels, but cannot be controlled. It's a pretty weird situation. In the future, the engine shall be certified when new fishing vessels are registered or when existing vessels switch main propulsion machinery. If the Ministry of Agriculture suspects that the information on engine power in the register is not true, it will be possible for them to measure it in the future. I will tell you right now that this change concerns new ships. A document certifying the engine power of vessels already in the register shall not be required. And the new requirements apply to trawl vessels, not to coastal fishing boats. The law also specifies the existing requirement that only vessels or boats, other vessels, or vessels, which are included in the register of fishing vessels, should be used for commercial fishing at sea. Such a bill. Good Parliament, I ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U218	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Urbo Vaarmann!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U219	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Where or how can the power of this ship be controlled when a new engine is installed? Is there a job for that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U220	The Ministry of Agriculture is the Ministry that deals with both control and probably certification. Without wanting to make a mistake, I will send you a written record of where such opportunities exist.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U221	Thank you. Please, Terje Trei!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U222	Thank you. Good minister! As I understand it, this is primarily about fishing for the Baltic Sea, but as a Peipsi person, I want to know if it also concerns the Peipsi Sea. I am thinking just the sixth point in this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U223	Thank you. This draft indeed concerns the Baltic Sea. To address the concerns of the fishermen of Peipsi, we have a debate at the Ministry on the Peipsi Sea as a whole. The working group will go together and try to find relief and solutions for the problems that are most acutely chewing on the soul. When this working group finishes its work, Parliament will also address these changes, because Peipsi is a place where things can be organised better.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U224	Thank you very much. No further questions. I would like to ask Annely Akkermann, Member of the Environment Committee, for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U225	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, On 17 March 2014, the Government of the Republic of Estonia initiated the draft law amending the Fisheries Act with number 620. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu decided to adopt it into the procedure on 18 March and appoint the Environment Committee as the commission. At the meeting of the Committee on the Environment on 8 April, Kaire Märtin, Head of the Fish Stocks Department of the Ministry of the Environment, presented the draft and answered the questions. To a large extent, the draft relates to the implementation of European Union law, and this is due to the introduction in the European Union of a requirement for the certification of the engine power of fishing vessels. The overcapacity of the fishing fleet has been a problem for many years, threatening both the sustainability of fish stocks and the long-term viability of the fisheries sector. The reduction of overcapacity has been a recurring issue for previous CFP reforms. The fishing capacity of fishing vessels is determined by the engine power of the vessels and is therefore subject to more effective control. The requirements are the result of a directly applicable regulation of the European Union, the conditions of which are mandatory. The draft significantly extends the possibilities of electronic procedures and, in addition to the implementation of European Union law, lays down amendments to the fishing law necessary to establish fishing opportunities for fishermen on the basis of a fishing authorisation by county, sea, inland waterways and small islands with permanent residence, which is expected to achieve an optimal distribution of fishing effort in the water area. The latter, in turn, should improve the state of fish stocks by reducing fishing pressure on stocks of fish of the relatively local nature of the coastal sea. The requirements applicable to fishing vessels used for professional fishing and the organisation of fishing activities are also specified. The Commission raised the question of whether the subjects of this legislative amendment, or fishermen, are still aware of the changes ahead. Have they been adequately explained, and have they been involved? Mr Märtin replied that the draft had been presented to fishermen in 2012. However, no evidence could be found in this respect, as the draft has only been submitted in 2013 and twice to coordinate the draft information system. The draft submitted to coordination in the first half of the year was significantly different from what had passed coordination in the second half of the year. Kaire Märtin was able to answer the question of the involvement and support of fishermen simply by stating that they had not received information that they did not support the draft. Mr Märtin pointed out that the fishermen's organisations had been discussing the amendments resulting from the European Union Regulation, in particular with regard to engine power. The Commission considered that the clarification of information to fishermen was insufficient and, for reasons of certainty, it would organise a meeting of the Committee on the Environment on 22 April for further information to target groups, which would also invite representatives of their representative organisations. Jaanus Tamkivi drew attention to the term 'permanent resident', which does not exist legally. He also raised the problem of how to dispose of historic fishing rights if no permanent resident wanted to buy it. Kaire Märtin stated that permanent residents are defined on the basis of their place of residence in the population register. It was found that this would not work as expected, as it would be possible to sign up to an island in the population register for one day in order to have the opportunity to buy historic fishing rights on that day. Tõnis Kõiv asked whether restricting the market by sharing it with certain parties would not push the price of historical fishing rights too low. That topic was still in the air for discussion. The Committee on the Environment decided to require the draft law amending the Fisheries Act to draft a draft regulation of the Government of the Republic establishing the fishing capacity by water area, as this will lead to a change in fishing opportunities for professional coastal fishermen next year. The Commission took the following procedural decisions: It was decided to put the draft on the agenda for the plenary session on 16 April, today, to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 7 May 2014. The rapporteur was appointed here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U226	Any questions for the Rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment? No, it's not. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish to negotiate. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 620. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 620 amendments. 7 May at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U227	The next item is the first reading of the draft Act on Structural Support for the period 2014 to 2020 initiated by the Government of the Republic. On behalf of the initiator of the draft act, the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi will make a presentation. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U228	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The purpose of this draft is to regulate the use of the European Union's cohesion policy funds until 2020. There will be no major changes to the implementation system to speed up the introduction of the new period's resources compared to the previous period. The conditions for granting grants will be prepared by the Ministry responsible for the sector and will be provided through implementing entities. Grants will be awarded on the basis of an open call for proposals and an investment plan, similar to the current period, for the activities of ministries and financial instruments. Achieving the targets will be the most important for the period from 2014 to 2020. As an innovation, sectoral committees will be set up to monitor the achievement of the agreed objectives in the national strategies and programming documents. The use of grants must comply with the legislation of Estonia itself and at European level, they can only be granted in accordance with State aid rules and used in accordance with the Public Procurement Act. Both beneficiaries and administrators are always checked, and public procurement controls have become more effective. National advances will be extended to ensure the necessary funding for the implementation of the supported projects. The law can be implemented once the European Commission has approved the areas and objectives for receiving grants. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U229	Thank you. Any questions for the initiator of the bill? No, it's not. The presentation shall be made on behalf of the Commission by Rannar Vassilyev, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U230	Ladies and gentlemen, The draft was discussed in two meetings of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. One took place on April 10th, the other on April 15th. Ivar Sikk, Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of Finance, and Kerstin Liiva, Head of the Department of Structural and Foreign Resources of the European Union, Jürgen Ligi and Kerstin Liiva, Minister of Finance, participated in the first. The Commission focused mainly on three issues. The first concerned a possible reduction in red tape that could take place during this period. The representatives of the Ministry of Finance informed the Commission, which could lead to less red tape in the future. The second topic was the general differences compared to the previous organisational mechanism and process. The Commission also received an overview of this from the people of the Ministry of Finance. The third issue concerned performance-based disbursements and audit. The Ministry's representatives also provided exhaustive answers to these questions. At its meeting on 10 April, the Commission decided by consensus to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda for the plenary session on Wednesday 16 April. At its meeting on 15 April, the Committee on Monetary Affairs decided by consensus to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments be set at 4 p.m. on 2 May. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U231	Are there any questions for the Commission's rapporteur? No, it's not. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish to negotiate. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 622. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 622 amendments. a 2 May at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U232	The following draft Act amending the VAT Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 626. Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi, to be the initiator's waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U233	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The draft amendment to the VAT Act aims at supplementing the list of goods subject to the reverse charge from 1 July with materials containing precious metals and precious metal. Precious metals are pure gold, silver, platinum and palladium and their alloys. As of 1 January 2015, the list of goods subject to the reverse charge shall be supplemented by gemstones. For precious stones, reverse charge will take place later, as its introduction will require a decision of the Council of the European Union. Estonia submitted a request for derogation to the Commission on 13 January 2014. Since 1 April 2012, the reverse charge applies to gold with a pure gold content of at least 325 thousandths of weight and to investment gold when the taxable person chooses to pay it. This change reduced VAT fraud in the gold market for a short period of time. In order to avoid reverse charge, the sale of thawed gold, where the gold content is below the set weight of 325 thousandths, began. In order to avoid tax fraud, we want to apply reverse charge for all precious metals and precious stones. Only the imposition of reverse charge on the turnover of all gold would result in exponentially increasing fraud involving other precious metals and precious stones. Reverse charge does not entail any additional costs for businesses, with an estimated additional budget of €3.5 million in the second half of this year. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U234	Any questions for the Minister of Finance? No, it's not. Thank you. I would like to ask Mr Aivar Sõerdi, Member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, for a presentation by the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U235	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Riigikogu discussed draft 626 at two sessions: 10 and 15 April. Marek Uusküla, Head of Department of the Ministry of Finance, presented the draft as a representative of the initiator, and Jürgen Ligi, Minister of Finance, answered the questions. Once again, I repeat that the aim of the draft is to implement the reverse charge of the turnover of all precious metals and precious stones in order to avoid tax fraud. Tax fraud is carried out not only on gold but also on precious metals and precious stones, and the imposition of a reverse charge on the turnover of gold alone would result in a surge in fraud involving other precious metals and precious stones. I will present here an overview of the issues and the issues dealt with in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. As the reverse charge of gold material moved a wave of fraud into the precious metals and precious stones sectors, the Commission asked whether it was possible to foresee the following areas to which tax fraudsters are going. The representatives of the Ministry of Finance could not say whether such a major problem would arise. There are a number of criteria for detecting fraud in this area in general. One is the increase in the number of companies and sales outlets, as well as the increase in sales volumes. However, it does not make sense that there is real economic activity. The question was asked that if, in the six months following the amendment of the law, the additional receipts would be around EUR 3,5 million, this would continue in the coming years. The answer was that it was a measure having a short-term effect and, rather, its effect is that it is not an increase in the tax, but that the State is not obliged to pay back that much unduly. It was also asked that a special reverse charge scheme would apply to precious stones as of 1 January 2015, why such a date would apply. The answer was that the introduction of a special regulation on the reverse charge of precious stones requires a decision by the Council of the European Union and can last up to eight months. The Commission also raised the question of the practice of reverse charge in other countries in this area. The representative of the Ministry explained that, for example, in Austria, precious metals are taxed in reverse, and that there is no information on precious stones. The problems of countries are actually the same, but if in Estonia it is more of a metal business issue, then in the UK, for example, the problem of mobile business. In general, it is a small-scale commodity with a high value. There was also the question of possible damage to VAT. The explanatory memorandum tells us about 7 million, how does it divide between the precious metal business and the gemstone business? The answer was that the share of precious metal is estimated at 6 million and the share of precious stones is estimated at 1 million. The Commission further discussed the nature of the reverse charge mechanism. It is worth noting that in the case of reverse charge, the buyer of the goods or services is liable for payment of VAT, who in his VAT return accounts for VAT on the sale and also for input VAT resulting from the purchase transaction. The Commission was asked whether the European Union would not allow any wider reverse charge. What is the perspective for amending the Directive? The answer was that VAT in the European Union is still linked to the taxation of value added and reverse charge cannot be extended to all goods and services. If it is still to be amended in this way, consensus is needed from all countries. It is clear that the problems in this area need to be discussed, and that is what the European Commission and the European Parliament are dealing with. The Commission took the following decisions: to put the draft on the agenda on Wednesday 16 April, that is to say today, to conclude the first reading and set the deadline of 2 May at 16 a.m. for the submission of amendments. The Commission's decisions were consensual. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-16_U236	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thank you, Aivar Sõerd! I'm opening negotiations. You don't want to negotiate. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 626. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft. a 2 May at 4 p.m. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 4.50 p.m.
