ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the session of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday 16th working week. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U2	Honourable Riigikogu! Recently, problems have arisen with access to cash and with what is happening in bank offices. It is certainly not a sensible solution here if every local authority, or politicians, starts to dictate to banks, negotiate and organise activities up to the boycotts. This will not solve the problem and will not increase confidence. The Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union will submit to the Riigikogu a draft law amending the Eesti Pank Act, with which we would like to give Eesti Pank greater powers to ensure the availability of cash. Managing the circulation of money is the task of Eesti Pank according to the current law. Eesti Pank should be the most competent and correct institution to deal with this issue and find solutions. In cooperation with the Banking Association, it is possible to improve access to cash as well as make it cheaper. Paragraph 2 (2) of the draft law gives Eesti Pank additional powers to ensure the availability of cash and gives it the right to lay down rules on the availability of cash to credit institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U3	Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted a draft. The Board of the Riigikogu decides to accept this procedure in accordance with the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. 89 members of the Riigikogu are currently registered as present and there are no 12 members of the Riigikogu. Let's clarify today's agenda. Today's seventh item, the draft Act amending Article 15 of the VAT Act, initiated by Juku-Kalle Raidi, Olga Sõtnik, Priit Sibula, Mart Meri and Andres Herkel, is presented at the first reading debate of 630.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U4	We are going to address today's agenda items. The third reading of the draft law amending the Citizenship Act initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs begins. Any requests? There's no call. Let's go to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, since the draft requires a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu to be adopted, we are once again doing a verification of our presence. 89 members of the Riigikogu were registered as present and there are no 12 members of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft law amending the Citizenship Act, initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, 586. Please take a stand and vote. 85 members of the Riigikogu voted against, with one abstention. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U5	Our second item today is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu on 'Construction of the Estonian Parliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Latvia' presented by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Ms Imre Sooääre, Member of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Chair, please report!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U6	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed a draft of 672 on Monday 19 May. I would remind you that the content of the draft is the amendment of the decision to establish the Estonian delegation to the Interparliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Latvia. Due to the change in the composition of the Riigikogu, the political groups have made their proposals for the appointment of new members. The draft provides for the removal of Mr Andre Sepp from the current composition of the delegation and the appointment of Mr Peep Aru as a member in his place, as well as the exclusion of Mr Ülo Tulik as a member of the delegation and the appointment of Mr Peeter Laurson as a member in his place. I would remind the new members of the Riigikogu that if we take this decision today, the new composition of the delegation will be as follows: the delegation is headed by Laine Randjärv, the deputy director is Aivar Riisalu and members are Peep Aru, Rein Randver, Aivar Kokk, Sven Sester, Valeri Korb, Neeme Suur, Peeter Laurson, Jaanus Tamkivi, Väino Linde and Vladimir Velman. No amendments were tabled by the deadline for tabling amendments. The Committee on Foreign Affairs decided to propose to the Executive Board of the Riigikogu a draft of 672 on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by Tuesday, 3 June. The Commission also proposed that the draft be put to a final vote and adopted as a decision. It was decided to appoint a speaker. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U7	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Imre Sooäär. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. No amendments to the draft were received. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote to the final vote on the draft of the Riigikogu decision 'amending the decision of the Riigikogu 'Constitution of the Estonian Parliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Latvia' 672. Please take a stand and vote. 78 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, no one opposed, with two abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U8	The third item is the first reading of draft law 635 on compensation for damage caused in criminal proceedings initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Rein Lang, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U9	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry, but I'm gonna try to shut up my phone first! It is my task today to tell you about the draft law on compensation for damage caused in criminal proceedings. It's an old story with a beard. This draft was already discussed by the previous Parliament, namely the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. As Parliament ran out of time, the elections came up, the draft that the government had tabled fell out of the procedure. Every person legally present in Estonia on the basis of the Constitution shall be entitled to compensation in the event of damage suffered, including moral damage. According to § 25 of the Constitution. On the basis of its § 25, Estonia has adopted the State Liability Act, which is quite general and has created major problems. Although, under § 25 of the Constitution, the courts have also found the damage suffered by those persons who have caused the damage, it would, of course, be reasonable for the State to impose unambiguous rules on the way in which it itself compensates for the damage it has caused, particularly in relation to all kinds of proceedings, whether they are criminal proceedings, in certain cases also civil cases or, in particular, in the case of administrative matters. What it should look like is a heated debate between several law schools and agencies. In order to move forward, the coalition partners of the then Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union decided to initiate together the draft Act on State Liability, which received the number 7 SE in the Riigikogu and was dealt with. For the first time, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed this issue on 21 November 2011. It turned out that all these disputes, which had been held for four years, had still not reached anywhere, and it was decided that the Ministry of Justice had to come up with an in-depth analysis and, if necessary, a new text of the draft. So the text was awaited. I would point out that that date was 21 November 2011. It's been almost three years. Next time, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was able to come back to the issue on 24 March. The Ministry of Justice then brought us a new text of the draft law, which he had titled 'the draft law on compensation for damage caused by guilt proceedings'. This draft was presented to the Commission by Illimar Pärnamägi, who spoke thoroughly about why the Ministry of Justice has acted as it has done and why it has taken so much time, and he made a hard request that perhaps the Committee on Constitutional Affairs itself adopt this text and initiate the draft law in the Riigikogu. That is what the Committee on Constitutional Affairs decided to do. The decision was not consensual: 7 votes to 1, with 3 abstentions. It was decided that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs would initiate this draft law and see what would happen next, whether all of this could be incorporated into the pending draft 7 SE. The bill is now in motion. Since then, a meeting of the Commission has taken place. This took place on 19 May 2014, and it discussed in particular how the Government of the Republic reacted to the draft we initiated. So how did the Government of the Republic react? The Government of the Republic said that it basically supports the draft initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, i.e. in fact the draft drawn up by the Government itself, and also made some observations that had been made by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of the Interior. And that was it. It has to be held that the old dispute over which court should still discuss damages either by the Administrative Court or by the General Court is still present. The content of all this dispute has been that there are two positions in the Supreme Court on this matter. Administrative judges claim that these matters should be in general court proceedings, but there are several judges who consider that they could also be in administrative court proceedings. This whole thing is dragged on because it is feared that if the legislator imposes some kind of regulation, then in the final stage it may become trivial in the Supreme Court under constitutional review. It seems that it has now come to the conclusion that the courts that are to deal with these damages in criminal proceedings are the General Courts. Administrative courts cannot take these matters on their own. But the next dispute is where the usual law enforcement action grows into an offence procedure. After all, ordinary law enforcement does not basically mean that we have an offence procedure. Therefore, this dispute should be brought before the administrative court. But if this action goes into criminal proceedings, it makes sense that it is subject to the General Court. Now we need to see that there is no conflict at all. Looks like we'll have a little further to go until we find the final solution. The government spoke quite clearly. The representative of the Ministry of Finance also asked the question that they considered the current regime to be a bit complicated. In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in general, the view remained that when the judgment is in place and has entered into force, a person could send it to the Ministry of Finance, for example, who will pay the compensation. The person should no longer be interested, should not need to involve other authorities or run between authorities or, which would be particularly cynical, to involve the bailiff in this procedure. But we have proposals on the table from the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Ministry of Finance and also the Municipalities Association. The Association of Estonian Rural Governments represents, in my opinion, a somewhat strange view that if the state lays down a procedure for the compensation of damage caused by an offence, it should also make provision in the budget for the local government to do so. I would point out that this is an offence procedure if the municipality itself has done something wrong. Should the State really pay these costs? There was also a small debate on this in the Commission. The speaker himself asked the representative of the Ministry of the Interior, but the Ministry of the Interior does not represent such a way of thinking that the costs of illegal activities must be covered by the state budget. A representative of the Home Office said it was never meant to be. Peep Aru asked a very specific question in the Commission. Is this bill so mature, despite all the debates that are still up academically, that it could be submitted to the Riigikogu for first reading? Everyone who was present at the Commission said it could be done. The Commission decided unanimously to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 3 June, that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 10 June. Rein Lang, a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, was appointed as rapporteur, and this was also a consensual result. Now we must review these proposals and hopefully the regulation of damage caused by the criminal proceedings of the Riigikogu will be adopted within this year's number. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U10	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Rait Maruse!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U11	Thank you. Good waitress! This problem has indeed been shamefully unsolved for a long time. The lack of appropriate regulation has disrupted the work of the courts, but even worse, it has affected people who have had to wait and be unaware of how to resolve the situation. Yet, it has stretched, stretched, and stretched. Right now, it's a better half of the work than the whole story. That's something, too. But this morning we received an annual review of the President of the Supreme Court, where he gives a bad example of the presence of this state liability law. You mentioned one possible reason, but I'd like to hear again why it's been dragging on for so long.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U12	Thank you. To answer that, you have to go back to the past. During the previous parliamentary term, the Government of the Republic submitted a new version of the State Liability Act to the Riigikogu. The draft law stipulated that these disputes would be settled by the Administrative Court. To us at the Ministry of Justice at the time, this construction seemed to make perfect sense. However, the administrative judges at the Supreme Court were very strongly opposed to this and allowed it to be declared unconstitutional immediately when this law came into force. That's where the argument started. So, in principle, national judges have played a very important role in preventing this problem from being solved, who have been arguing with each other about how best to do it. My appeal to Parliament has always been that when such disputes arise, it is best to decide, because the worst thing is indecision. Rather, the risk that judges at one point declare one or the other regulation to be incompatible with the Constitution should be taken. The current situation, in which courts in some cases settle claims for damages only on the basis of the general principle of the Constitution, which has resulted in extremely different case-law at different places, is certainly not reasonable. The state could make some kind of regulation. If we take it from the point of view of the world revolution, I do not believe that the question of which court will rule on this matter, either the administrative court or the general court, is so existential. It is still a judicial decision, not so much a legal theoretic decision. However, it seems that, at this point in time, the margin in these disputes tends to favour that jurisdiction is a matter for the General Court. All right, then. As long as this regulation is in place.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U13	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U14	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Paragraph 2 (1) and (2) of this draft clearly states that in one case the Republic of Estonia and in the other case the local government will compensate for the damage. If damage has been caused on behalf of the State or on behalf of the local government, certain officials have done so. Does this law, in principle, provide that, if the State has compensated for the damage, it would continue to do so and that the State would recover the damage from a specific person who caused the damage to be compensated by the State or local authority?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U15	Thank you. Currently, Estonia has the State Liability Act and it is valid. There is the possibility of such recourse. True, I don't know any cases if it had been implemented. There has also been such a way of saying, with a political taste, that maybe you should think that, for example, in the case of acquittal judgments, you should charge the prosecutors individually. I must say that I personally do not support this, but the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has never discussed this issue in this way. Justice is sometimes expensive and a democratic rule of law is actually an expensive pleasure. These costs often have to be borne by society as a whole, they do not have to be recovered from the individual.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U16	Thank you. Please, Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U17	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! This is really a matter with a beard, and finding out the damage in Estonia is an issue with a beard at all. I remember that you yourself, as Minister of Justice, have expressed your views on this matter in your time. Could this draft set an example, or could it set some precedent for determining the damage at all? In the same way, there is an unsolved question of what happens if the press makes false statements and causes moral harm to people. Also, the cases covered by this draft may not only lead to direct damage, but may also entail indirect, moral damage. How will this damage be assessed? Such damage, as we know, can cost millions in many countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U18	Thank you. There are different things to do here. We are currently dealing with compensation for damage caused by an offence procedure. The criminal proceedings shall be carried out either by the national authorities authorised by the legislator or by the local authorities empowered to do so. This is not a civil dispute at all. As sad as it may seem, this bill does not solve the problems of damage caused by administrative proceedings. This piece of legislation should come from the Ministry of Justice on the government table this year and hopefully this Parliament will see this bill with its own eyes in this Chamber. As regards the amounts of damages that are disputed in civil court proceedings, you referred to the press, I believe that, with one amendment, this legal space has been established in Estonia. It is also possible to require 'preventive damages' in the case of press officers. The fact is that so far there have been quite a few implementations in court, but there are things that are pending. So we look forward to the first precedent of the Supreme Court in this matter. Of course, it is necessary to continue this dispute in legal theory and legal policy whether Estonian courts should be able to obtain punitive damages or preventive damages. The general trend in the world is to move from criminal law to the regulation of social relations in civil law. This is the direction of democratic countries in justice policy. We should definitely not start making more crime formations. Nor are we doing that, we know that the pending penal code will reduce the number of criminal offences. It's the right thing to do. We should also review administrative enforcement measures. They exist in Estonia, but are there enough? At the end of the long story, it can be said that criminal law could lead to a greater transition from society to the principles of debt.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U19	Thank you. Please, Rait Maruse, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U20	Thank you. Good waitress! In response to Mr Kallo's question, you said that you do not know that there would have been recourse to recovery from guilty officials. What could be the reason for this? Is it because the recovery of the damage requires guilty conduct or because there are other obstacles? How can this be arranged? It is quite important to know whether a person simply makes a mistake from being sloppy or stupid, or whether he is acting legally, but even so, this legitimate conduct does cause harm.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U21	Thank you. The simplest formal answer is that this issue was not discussed in the Commission. But I really do not know why these claims have not been turned against the authorities who acted maliciously. I guess the reason for this has been the pace of work and the attitude to get it over with and move on. How much you're swimming in this old thing! It is quite difficult to prove guilty, to prove very clearly that the damage has been caused intentionally or indirectly. To this end, the authority must have legal competence. If it doesn't exist, we should hire competent people from outside. But I remember that we ourselves have imposed rather severe restrictions on the distribution of public funds to Estonian law firms.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U22	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U23	Thank you. Good colleague! I heard from your answers that we live in a democratic country. Not every time you do not play out, and the process of refunding money can last for years. Is there a feeling in the law of a democratic state that a state or a local government could apologise?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U24	It's a more ethical category. It is not very fashionable to apologise, especially for public authorities and local authorities. At other times, perhaps the financial requirements, which are broken by hair, could be avoided by humanly saying that it went a little wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U25	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The commission's proposal was that the first reading of draft 635 should be completed. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at 5.15 p.m. on 10 June.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U26	The next item is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Social Welfare Act initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group. Please present a speech chair for a member of the Riigikogu, Yana Toomi!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U27	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, With the draft law amending the Social Welfare Act, the Centre Party wants to exclude such a thing as child support from the family's income. From 1 January 2005, child benefit began to be counted as part of the family's income, and that is the case to this day. According to Statistics Estonia, in 2012, 21585 families with children received income support, 12 times a year, or 4580 every month. We all know that the coalition agreement has been agreed and soon the law will also enter into force, which provides that child benefit for the first and second children will increase to EUR 45, which is welcome and supported by the Centre Party. But the question is that if we keep the law as it is, in such a way that child benefit is the income of the family, it means that after the increase in child benefit, a very large part of families with children will be deprived of income support. This, however, contradicts the idea of both support. The law provides that child benefit is intended to cover part of the costs of raising and educating a child, not to pay utility bills or to do something like that. So the situation is, one support swallows the other. I am very pleased that the Committee on Social Affairs supported this draft, and I hope that you, ladies and gentlemen, will do the same. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U28	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U29	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Despite all the respect for the drafting of this bill, I have a question. You've written in the explanatory memorandum that this law has implications for the state budget. Have you riddled with which sources of income could cover this cost?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U30	Thank you, good Inara! Unfortunately, neither I nor the Ministry of Social Affairs have ravaged it. In the Committee on Social Affairs, when we discussed this issue with a representative of the Ministry, he too owed a response to how many families will win or lose as a result. But if we already find enough money to raise child support, then surely this lower amount should not be a major obstacle.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U31	Any more questions? No further questions. Thanks a lot, Yana Toom! Rein Aidma, Member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Chair, for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U32	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee discussed this draft Act amending the Social Welfare Act on 636 Tuesday, 20 May. As here too, Yana Toom, as the initiator of the draft, made an overview in the Commission. The aim of the draft is to improve the management of families with children by preventing child benefit from being part of the family's income. The position of the Government of the Republic was presented by Kaili Hendla, adviser to the Welfare Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs. The government's position is not to support this bill. I shall refer briefly to the government's position. Indeed, the action plan of the government union has planned an increase in child benefits and need-based family benefits from next year, but the draft would create a situation where universal child benefits would be fully part of the family's income when determining income support. This would lead to unequal treatment of families with different numbers of children, as well as unequal treatment of families with children and without children. Thus, the Government's position has been substantiated by the Ministry of Social Affairs. The Commission, listening to the rapporteur, stopped on a few questions. I will give you a quick overview of some of them here. It was about the possibility that, if this draft was adopted as a law, the impact on families with children could be the same as that provided for in the government union agreement. The answer was that child benefit is primarily intended for children, but the purpose of the income support is to ensure the subsistence limit when other income has not been able to provide it. It was then discussed that child benefit is a grant that is treated differently in different countries. About half of Europe's countries take this into account as income, and half of them do not. The Government's position was negative, but the Commission decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 3 June and to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 17 June. It was decided to appoint Mr Rein Aidma, member of the Committee on Social Affairs. All decisions were taken unanimously in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U33	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Sing, question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U34	Thank you. It is very nice, of course, that the Commission still decided to finish the first reading. But does the coalition have a position within the Commission on when the second reading could come?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U35	Thank you for your question. First of all, we look forward to any amendments that must be tabled by 17 June. The Commission will then decide on the further progress of the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U36	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U37	Thank you. Honourable waitress! This is an important subject. The whole problem still comes down to the fact that income support, as such, is extremely small in Estonia and people find it difficult to cope with this money. Any step to alleviate the social situation in families requires the government to seek additional money to cover these costs. Yesterday, I was sitting here, when there was a huge attack on the Prime Minister during the answers to the questions, it was claimed that the sources of cover for raising child benefits were also as if false. Do you think that the attacks on the Prime Minister and the government will remain the same if, for example, we adopt this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U38	Thank you for your question. From this point of view, especially before yesterday's Prime Minister's presentation, of course, the Commission did not discuss the matter, but the answer can be twofold. First of all, of course, there is always little money. But secondly, when paying all kinds of social benefits, it must also be taken into account that they are an extreme measure that is used when a person is not able to cope with his or her life for reasons that are sometimes beyond his or her control. Social benefits cannot be enough to create a poverty trap from which a person does not want to get out. So I'm going to answer double.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U39	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Rein Aidma! Is there a desire to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. The commission's proposal was that the first reading of draft 636 should be completed. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at 5.15 p.m. on 17 June.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U40	The first reading of § 222 of the Act on Supplementation to Tea, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group, begins. Jaan Õunapuu, member of the Riigikogu, please speak chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U41	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, At the beginning of the year, the Social Democratic Party Group initiated a draft law supplementing the Tea Act § 222. It seeks to solve the problems that have recently arisen in practice when people have been prevented from going home. The draft provides local authorities with a right of pre-emption in the disposal of private roads. The implementation of this right is the fastest way to make public use of private roads. Similarly, the acquisition of a private road with a right of pre-emption may be more advantageous than the subsequent payment of compensation for the transfer of a road or payment of remuneration for the public use of a private road to the owner of the road. I would remind you that until now, the local authority has been able to conclude a contract with the private road owner and set a private road for public use by paying the fee stipulated in the contract to the road owner. If an agreement cannot be reached with the owner of a private road, but the roads need to be used publicly, the road used by the public pursuant to § 3 (1) (7) of the Law on the expropriation of immovable property may be disposed of. The acquisition of a private road for the purpose of economic activity may be detrimental to the public interest. For example, private roads built in real estate development can be the only way for many people who have acquired homes to have access to their own housing. Unlike many monopoly business areas, there are no limits to profitability for private road management. For this reason, a person who conducts a private business may charge unreasonable fees to owners of immovable property or providers of daily management services for access to housing. It is possible to escape the payment of such a fee by asking the court to set a tea service in its favour and to set a reasonable service fee, but this process requires a great deal of time and involves additional costs. A more detailed overview of the Commission's debate will be provided by the Commission's co-rapporteur, Mr Palling, but I can say that the Ministry of Economic Affairs has been working very intensively on this in recent weeks. I do not exclude that between the first and second readings the two points of the draft, which are written here, should be supplemented by amendments to the three laws (debt law law, law on enforcement procedures and planning law). The previous government gave a negative opinion on the draft. It was pointed out that a new planning law will be adopted in the Riigikogu immediately. This draft is pending in the Committee on Economic Affairs, but it is very difficult to predict when it will be adopted as a law. Finally. Surely, the existing regulation is sufficient, and life and case law do put things right. However, if it is possible to avoid burdensome litigation and to create clearer rules of the game, this possibility should be used. Above all, we need to intervene in a situation where we can see that practice has started to move in the wrong direction. Thanks!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U42	Thank you. Siim Kisler will ask the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U43	Thank you. Good waitress! If the road owner wants to earn an unreasonable high fee, as you have pointed out here, how does it help if the municipality goes at this high price, it is clear that then the sale price can be only very high, unreasonablely high to buy this land? Is it not the opposite effect here that it encourages the vicious owner of the theme to screw up these prices, precisely in order to finally sell the road to the municipality at a high price? In this context, expropriation would be much more sensible because it is at a fair price and would take away the appetite to extort like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U44	Thank you. In my previous statement, I mentioned the need for possible legislative changes. One of the provisions that should be amended is § 251 (1) of the Law of Obligations Act, which actually currently prevents the expropriation of immovable property in bankruptcy proceedings or compulsory executions in the form that the bill we have submitted provides for. Yes, perhaps these laws should abolish the rules that preclude the exercise of prerogative.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U45	Thank you very much. No more questions for the waitress. I would like to ask Kalle Palling, Member of the Chair of the Economic Commission, for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U46	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Economic Commission discussed the transmission of the draft Act supplementing § 222 of the Road Act to the first reading of 591 on Monday, 19 May. Jaan Õunapuu, representative of the initiator of the draft act, presented an overview of the objectives and content of the draft proposal. Between the first reading and the second reading of the bill, it is planned to complement the Law of Obligations Act and the Code of Enforcement Procedure in order to solve the problems of bankruptcy and enforcement proceedings. Jaak Säälik, Chief Specialist of Roads Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, who presented the Government's views and responded to the additional questions, was invited to the meeting of the Commission. The Commission decided to put the draft law on the agenda for the plenary session by 3 June and to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 17 June. All decisions were taken in a consensual manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U47	Thank you. Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder, question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U48	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Commission. Was it said in the Commission that most of the problematic private roads with problems of access to another property were created in the course of land and property reform? They have not now been created as new facilities, new roads on the basis of planning? What solutions could be found here? This bill is trying to solve the problems that have arisen with new roads. I admit that these are also important problems. But is there a solution to the problems that have arisen in the past?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U49	Thank you. Indeed, we discussed this issue at the Commission meeting and also before it in the working group on the draft. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications came up with exactly the same view that very many of these problems have arisen in the case of these routes. You can tell me the bill doesn't solve these problems. However, if you have a good proposal on how to solve these problems too, amendments can be tabled until 17 June. So please, if there is any good solution, the amendment is welcome.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U50	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. Any requests? No calls, no negotiations. The Commission's proposal is that the first reading of draft 591 should be completed. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft at 17 June.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U51	The sixth item is the first reading of the draft Act amending § 16 of the Road Act initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group. Please present a speech chair for a member of the Riigikogu Tarmo Tamme!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U52	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present today the draft amendment to § 16 of the Road Act initiated by the Central Party Group. This is a very good draft which solves the problem of underfunding local roads that have been running for years. The legislative amendment gives local authorities the assurance that in the coming years at least 10% of the funds received from fuel excise duties will be allocated to local governments to finance local roads. There is no doubt that 10% of the fuel excise funds are minimum, as, for example, the Municipal Council of Cooperation proposed to increase the share of the fuel excise duty received by municipalities to 25% by 2015, 30% by 2016 and 35% by 2017. The initiators of the draft act support an increase in the share of excise duties on fuel received by the municipalities, but the aim of the bill is to ensure a minimum level of the amount of money allocated to the municipalities for this purpose. As a former local government leader, I dare say that the situation of local roads is open, particularly because of systematic under-funding. The opponents try to correct this statement by arguing that local governments are not using money properly and that is why many municipalities are reminding themselves of the way of the war in the spring. The real reason is clear under-funding, with so little money it is not possible to keep you running in our climate. The maintenance of local roads is an important task of the municipality, which is required of the municipality or the city by the Local Government Organisation Act and Tea Act. However, the municipality can only carry out this task if the law provides for funding. The Road Act in force until 1 March 2009 stipulated that at least 10% of the amount earmarked for road maintenance in the state budget would be allocated to investments in local roads. Paragraph 16 (3) of the Road Act was also amended by the Act amending the State's additional budget and related laws in 2009 and this requirement was abolished. Of course, the State took advantage of the opportunity given by the amendment in relation to the municipalities and allocated less than 10% of the excise duty on fuel for investments on local roads in four consecutive years. In 2010, 4.9% of the fuel excise duty was allocated to municipalities, 4.8% in 2011, 6.5% in 2012 and 9.7% in 2013. Between 2010 and 2013, therefore, only 6,5% of the funds provided for in § 16 of the Road Act were allocated to local roads on average. It's abnormally low. Local authorities are known to own 41% of all Estonian roads. A study carried out by the Road Technology Centre in 2011 showed a long-term cumulative under-funding of 836 million euros for state roads. The cumulative underfunding of local roads and streets is broadly EUR 300 million. As a result, the road surfaces of the main Estonian roads are on average 13 years old, the road surfaces of the main roads are on average 25 years old and the road surfaces of the secondary roads and local roads are already more than 30 years old. It's a clear warning sign. The existence and quality of road infrastructure are essential both for the mobility of citizens and for the transport of products and raw materials to businesses. Last year we asked about the financing of local roads for an opinion from Estonian local government leaders. We received 31 responses. None of them considered the funding of local roads sufficient and the situation satisfactory. However, according to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, it is the responsibility of local authorities to maintain local roads, which should be financed from the local budget as a whole, and the state could only support the cost of road maintenance for local authorities if it was interested. Unfortunately, the minister should review the law of tea. Paragraph 16 (3) of the Road Act states very clearly that the distribution of money for the storage of state roads and the storage of local roads is determined for each financial year in the state budget. Local authorities need to be assured that they have a specific allocation for the maintenance of roads for each financial year. I would remind you that in 2009 the share of income tax allocated to local authorities was also reduced to 11,4%, thereby amplifying the already experienced and ongoing reduction in budget revenues due to the economic downturn. In addition to the reduction in budget revenues due to the economic downturn, the decision to cut income tax and the compensatory fund in 2009-2012 reduced local living resources by almost EUR 190 million. Therefore, it is not possible for municipalities to increase the funding for road maintenance from their own revenues. The external instruments for local roads have also been highly unstable and will be significantly reduced in the coming years. In addition, it should be taken into account that the European Union's Structural Funds are intended to reduce the lack of Estonian infrastructure from other European Union infrastructure and not to patch the budget gaps created by the state. This distribution of road resources between national routes and local roads is neither logical nor fair. I think that the confirmation that the responsibilities of local government are not covered and unbalanced also gave us yesterday's European Commission assessment, which pointed out that local government responsibilities should be covered more strongly by the state. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U53	Thank you for your question. Indeed, such a situation arose after the country slashed it. I would remind you that in 2008 the state allocated EUR 40 million to local authorities for road maintenance. As head of the local government, I can confirm that there was a real opportunity to repair you, not just to keep them in a certain state. But how did we manage to maintain the road situation more or less? There was no other option, there had to be a reduction in employees' salaries. I remember that the mayor's salary at the time was reduced by about 20% a year. If you do not repair you in time, then in the future the repair will be considerably more expensive. In the case of Lithuania and Latvia, it can be said that the cost of repairs will then increase by 1.5 times. In my opinion, if resources are not allocated at the right time, it is economic indiscretion, and it is also economic stupidity.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U54	Thank you very much. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U55	Thank you. Good performer! I'm asking for the last answer. More specifically, EUR 40.5 million was allocated to local roads in 2008. Do you think the 2008 financial allocation for local roads was something that would still provide a proper route today?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U56	Thank you. If funding for this amount were stable, I think those municipalities who would then complain that it is impossible to keep you in order with this money should look in the mirror. I think it was the kind of amount that could keep you in a satisfactory position. I recall that only EUR 29,3 million was allocated to local roads last year and EUR 28,1 million will be allocated this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U57	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U58	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, We will compare these figures: EUR 40.5 million in 2008 and EUR 28 million this year. These are, I understand, absolute numbers. At the same time, in the last six years all prices have increased properly. EUR 28 million this year cannot be equal to EUR 28 million in 2008, for example. If we looked at such things as inflation, wage growth and the increase in the price of all resources, what would it now be comparable to EUR 40.5 million in 2008? What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U59	Thank you. Of course, if EUR 40.5 million was allocated in 2008, this year, I think, in view of inflation, coefficients and price increases, this could be about EUR 60 million if I broadly count. But I think it is amazing that the new government coalition decides to take 25 million euros off the road to patch up budget holes. If we have EUR 25 million of free money, as the Prime Minister said yesterday, you could understand what the state could not make use of properly, then give it to local governments! There are no local governments in Estonia that could say that the roads there are in order, no matter who is in charge, right-wing, left-wing or anyone. Lately, I was told that a postman was trapped in several places during the spring during a field trip. In my opinion, this is a stupid and short-sighted step when road financing is reduced and funding is not stable. We are talking about local self-government autonomy. How can the autonomy of a local government be guaranteed in principle if the funding is so unstable? What road-saving plans and development plans we are talking about when the financing of the development plan depends on the state's financial situation in the spring and the mood for the minister to set this amount!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U60	Thank you. Please, Lauri Laasi!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U61	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Yesterday, the Prime Minister said in this very hall that the money for local roads will certainly not be reduced next year. This year, 10% of the money allocated to roads was allocated to local governments. Can you tell me if the government is not going to reduce the funding of municipal roads, why are they so opposed to this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U62	Thank you. I also did not understand what amount Mr Prime Minister relied on and what years the amount would not decrease. For example, compared to the previous year and this year, this amount decreased by 1.2 million euros, this year 1.2 million euros less money is earmarked for local government roads than in 2013. We know the pressure on the state budget for next year. I don't know what kind of money is written there, and there's no reduction compared to what. But the purpose of this bill is to give the municipalities confidence and write 10% in the law. If the state receives less excise duties on fuel, then the local authorities will receive less if the state receives more, then the local government will receive more. But then there's some stability, there's no stability right now. I don't know what kind of money the Prime Minister was talking about. Well, we'll see what kind of budget it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U63	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U64	Thank you. Good colleague! In some years, the state comes to the aid of local governments and gives money. Five or six municipalities receive one year and another year. But the story is that there is no clarity in this policy, this country's aid. Can anyone in this hall or one of the local government leaders today say what will come in 2016 and which local authorities will receive this money? I think we talk about money enough, but no one wants to talk about the policy that comes in 2016 or 2017.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U65	Thank you. I think that the necessity of this draft was clear to my groupmates. But I hope that we have also made it clear to Mr. Seeder that it needs to be fixed in 10% of the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U66	No further questions. Thank you, Tarmo Tamm! I would like to ask for a co-report from Deniss Borodichi, member of the Chair Committee on Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U67	Thank you. This would mean needs-based road support. We have needs-based family support, I do not know what needs-based support we still have, and now we are going to start distributing needs-based road support. Some committee will drive around Estonia and see which section of the road needs money, then a good politician will come and give it money and then life can be arranged. This 10%, Inara, is a minimum level. Nobody's gonna tell you not to increase that amount. But you're right. How can entrepreneurship be developed without you? You know very well that section of the road that leads from Värska to the border. It's not being built anymore because there's not enough money. I know that, for example, this section of the road that goes past my home, Põlva-Saverna Road, will be repaired by 2.5 kilometres, but the total length of the road to be repaired will be 10 kilometres. Light traffic roads are no longer being built because there is no money, only 2.5 kilometres are being repaired and no more blackberries are being made there. I can't tell you where we're going to end up like this, but that's the reality.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U68	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U69	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I have another question. You have a very good chart in the explanatory memorandum showing the annual breakdown of foreign funds allocated to municipalities. You've been working on this for a long time. Are you also able to show us examples of how many local governments have received money for roads, I mean both foreign and public funds, and to compare how much money has actually been used by local authorities for roads?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U70	Thank you. The main problem is that, in the next budget period, the share of external resources in the renovation of municipal roads will decrease even further, as external resources can only be allocated to local authorities' specific objects, such as major nodes, viaducts or other such things. The usual roads cannot be repaired with external equipment. That's the problem. I can tell you, Inara, that at the moment, the state is already contributing less than 50% of the money from excise duties on fuel to roads, and that this amount will decrease further because it is believed that the missing part will be covered by European Union funds and that the money for road storage can be used somewhere else. That is, unfortunately, the policy now. However, local authorities are not able to use external aid, because these opportunities are so few. We could build rainwater drainage systems on city streets, for example, or something like that, but there are no resources for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U71	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U72	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, Above all, I want to thank you for the answers you've given for the last 15 minutes! A person who does not have an issue should also have an idea of two possible systems for the distribution of money for road repair and maintenance. Can we put the point to this debate with the idea that what you are defending now and what the Group of the Estonian Centre Party has offered means equal treatment, the best way of keeping track of what is possible with the current budget, but what the Government Coalition is planning to do is to distribute political money that allows it to its own and not to others?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U73	Thank you. We protect all municipalities and we protect them so that there is at least some minimum level of funding for local government roads. As I said in the report, in three years the financing of roads fell in the middle to 6.5%. In our opinion, the minimum level of 10% would be that local authorities could take into account also in 2017, they would be able to make development plans and road plans and create some kind of stability. But just because everything should depend on someone's good will, I don't get it. Something could be certain in the Estonian state. Financing roads could be one of those things that have been laid down on solid grounds, because we use you all, and we are all Estonian citizens.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U74	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Sing, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U75	Thank you. The roads are out of order, when you look around the country, it's clear, and they're getting worse, but the public finances are in order, and the budget is in balance. Which do you think people understand more, and which ones will remember more?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U76	Thank you. I don't agree with you, Marika, that public finances are in order and the state budget is in balance. If about 2% of the state budget is made up of aid funds from the European Union, how is the state budget balanced? I don't understand it. What is balance and what is finance, I don't know. These are different concepts, but this is not the subject of today's debate. But there could still be stability in financing local government roads. That's why I'm so jealously defending this bill, and not for the first time. Two things confirm that this funding could be fixed. First of all, the recent adoption of a transport development plan in the Riigikogu fixed that 10% of the road maintenance funds could go to local governments. If the development plan is adopted, but it cannot be legalised, I ask why this development plan was made at all. Second, we also have fellow thoughters who have appeared to us. The European Commission's assessment yesterday pointed out exactly the same thing that I have been talking about today, that the responsibilities of local authorities are not covered by revenue. These obligations, of course, include the maintenance of roads. If we don't start paying attention to this and we only go the opposite way, then we're in the same position as we are now.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U77	Thank you. Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U78	Thank you. Dear waitress, Most of the questions came to you from your groupmates. How do you feel about whether or not you have been able to convince your colleagues in the political group that this draft is necessary?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U79	Good chairman of the sitting! Colleagues! The Economic Commission discussed the draft law amending § 16 of the Road Act at its regular meeting on 15 May. First, we heard the initiator's representative Tarmo Tamme, who spoke about the objectives and content of the draft and answered the questions. Needs to be noted that the Government of the Republic does not support this draft. After a long discussion, the Commission decided to propose the rejection of the draft proposal (by 5 votes to 2, with 1 abstention). There are many reasons. First of all, the content of the draft is to ensure that local roads are stored at 10% of the amount allocated to the financing of road maintenance. If we look at even this year's budget, we will see that this 10% is guaranteed on local roads. The coalition agreement also clearly states that funding for local roads will not be reduced. There is therefore no need to link the funding of roads to a specific percentage; the budget must be flexible. Maybe 10% can be allocated in some years, but 15% can be allocated next year. I do not think we need to link funding here to a specific percentage. But as far as the purpose of the bill is concerned, as I said, this is not a problem right now. There is therefore no need to resolve this problem with this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U80	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U81	Thank you. Dear waitress, I'm not familiar with the nuances of the coalition agreement. Can you tell me what is the amount allocated to local governments in the state budget for next year? You said it wouldn't go down. Compared to which year will it not decrease, either in 2009 or in 2011? What's it gonna be? It's good to check the verbatim so we don't have to argue here in the spring.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U82	Let's look at the chronology. The Coalition Agreement was signed at the beginning of this year and its starting point was the current budget, i.e. the 2014 budget. Although the sum of the amounts will be set in the budget, the coalition agreement has nevertheless meant that this amount will not be reduced compared to the current budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U83	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U84	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! Of course, it can be considered that the roads are in a bad situation and need repair and, let's say, it can be covered in one piece of paper. Then we're talking about the paper situation, not the road situation. But here's the question. You can't say right now that local government roads are not in a bad situation. What does the coalition intend to do to remedy this situation, but not just talk about papers?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U85	If you noticed, this bill was not initiated by the Government of the Republic, but by your group, or the movement of the papers, will take place this way. But the question is correct. Of course, it is in everyone's interest that Estonian roads are in order, both in the city and on the highway. To this end, the money is allocated from two places. First of all, and this is the most important of all, under the Local Government Organisation Act, there is an obligation to finance local roads from the local budget. In addition, the State allocates additional amounts each year for road maintenance and investment, as well as European Union funds. These have been quite significant over the last seven years and large amounts are foreseen for the next period. So the financing is taking place, but of course, it is very important how the local authorities view their roads, whether they consider them decent or bad, and how much money they give them.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U86	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U87	Thank you. I'm gonna ask you about the coalition agreement. You know it better than that, Deniss. What was the logic when, next year, it was decided to withdraw EUR 25 million from road maintenance funds to cover the remaining national budget expenditure? Where's the logic here? We're losing 500 jobs, and in the future, road repair will be more expensive. What logic did you follow when you took such a step?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U88	Since this debate is not a debate on the coalition agreement and we should still be based on a specific draft, I would first of all mention that this was not discussed in the Commission. But as far as the coalition agreement is concerned, as I said, the amount going on local roads will not be reduced. The remaining amounts will also be set each year for the storage of state roads and precisely for the purpose of ensuring that all standards are met and the quality of roads is good.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U89	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U90	Thank you, Madam President. I want to be more specific. In recent years, the amount that the state has provided for municipalities to keep local roads in good order has gradually decreased. The road situation is what it is. The money that is currently being allocated is not enough. Perhaps the coalition has an understanding of how to improve the road situation. I'm not talking about blasphemy or percentage, I'm talking about specific situations.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U91	I guess situations are different. As I said, roads are always financed from two sources: mainly and on the basis of KOKS, from the local budget and from the state budget. Certainly, yes, in difficult times, it was in times of crisis that the amount was lower. If we look at the two previous years, the funding was 10%, and it will certainly continue in the same amount. I see additional resources in the local budget. Although the initiator of the bill wants to put a certain percentage into the law, I, for example, do not know any of them, I might, of course, be wrong about the municipality, where some percentage of the budget would have been allocated to the roads. This sum comes from two places.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U92	Thank you. Please, Jüri Morozov, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U93	Thank you. Good colleague! You have been a local government manager for a long time, even at the beginning of the economic crisis. How was it possible to maintain you with the funds allocated in 2010 and 2011? In those years, less than 5% of the volume needed was allocated to local authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U94	Thank you. It is sad that we do not know what will come in 2015, 2016 or 2017. But there could be some stability in the country. Stability could also be found in the financing of roads. After all, road specialists have pointed out that at least 500 people will be unemployed next year as a result of the state's cut. This means that taxes will not be collected, families will get into a difficult situation, roads will fall apart. I don't understand this policy with the best of will. Unfortunately, I think that many of these people who have lost their jobs have a plan to leave this country, they are going to another country where they are guaranteed a job. How can one road company be established in Estonia if it is known that the main donor and client is the state? The state can say one year that it is difficult for it to look at the company itself, how it pays its leasing payments and all taxes, the state does not give money this year, it does not order. I don't understand it, but the others do. This is a different policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U95	Thank you. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U96	The poor condition of the roads is, firstly, a major economic problem. Secondly, as we have heard, this is causing unemployment. Thirdly, when it comes to human health in particular, road safety is important; it is dangerous to drive on these roads. Here's my question. Why does the Estonian state, which considers itself to be such a pioneer in Europe, not pay attention to the new modern word 'infrastructure' that the President proposed for us and what he invented? What are the reasons why you don't get enough funding?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U97	Thank you. It's hard for me to understand what other people think. But according to my logic, the roads of the Estonian state, at least the main roads and the streets of cities and major settlements, could still be in such a state that we should not be ashamed of our own people or of our foreign guests. We recently cursed the roads of the Polish state. Please drive around Poland and you'll see what's happened in the meantime. The state has understood that infrastructure is one of the main guarantees that entrepreneurship will develop and people can move safely. In addition, there will be stable jobs that will bring tax money to the state. If you think about it economically, it is clear that the later you are being repaired, the higher the costs of the state will be. I can't understand a different way of thinking. We could involve an economic expert and discuss whether it is wise to reduce this already small amount.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U98	Thank you. Please, Jüri Morozov!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U99	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! You have repeatedly stressed economic thinking. Just before you, Yana Toom introduced a bill that seeks to improve the social well-being of families. Does Yana Toom lack economic thinking that she is talking about managing families rather than tea money?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U100	Thank you. To contrast with these two things that if we raise child support, we should reduce the amount that goes on the roads, I think it is foolish. I think that state policy should change. I ask, good colleague, why the administrative reform has not been carried out today. Our neighbors Latvians did the administrative reform. Estonia is the only country in the European Union that thinks that the administrative reform is somehow going ahead. In Latvia last year the number of jobs increased three times more than in Estonia. We should look in the mirror and think about why the reform of the state has not taken place. Or we can take the simple thing that the Estonian state promises to move money freely as taxes. As far as I know, Swedbank has issued 240 million euros tax-free this year. That's where we need to find the money, not confront you and the kids. This contrast is very stupid.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U101	Thank you. Please, Heimar Lenk, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U102	I ask my previous question as to why then the state will not fund you and also social policy, such as childcare. Is it not the problem that our treasury is running out of money, that we do not have enough money to support the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U103	Thank you. I will continue my previous answer. The current leaders do not look in the mirror. I'll come back to Latvia again. Let's look at economic growth. Latvia's economic growth was 2.8%, and last year it was the largest in the European Union. Reforms were carried out in Latvia in time. In Latvia, for example, corporate income tax is 15% and income cannot be hidden or transferred anywhere. Some politicians in the Reform Party have thought that businesses could voluntarily pay income tax, they have enough money to give it to the state voluntarily. I ask what kind of tax system this is. In Latvia it is that companies pay 15% of their income and have no chance of putting this money in place for one place or another. If there is a good entrepreneur who creates jobs, then the state can switch the money back to the company in a different way. So there is a need to change the tax system and state policies, reforms need to be carried out, but nothing is currently being done. Indeed, the country has no money and is being taken wherever possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U104	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U105	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You said that if the proportion received by the municipalities were to be fixed as a percentage, then it would be that if the excise duty were to be collected more in the state budget, the local authorities would receive more money than the excise duty would be less, the local authorities would also receive less money. In many rural areas, I have often noticed that here and there, thank God, there will be companies. This also creates a greater burden on roads in certain areas. Do you think this approach, setting a percentage, will still ensure that all roads in the local authorities are maintained or would it be more reasonable to untie these things? Then you can look at which municipalities have become more burdened with roads and could give more money there, making this system much more flexible.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U106	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! Did the draft author in the Commission also mention why it was 10%? He said that the local government associations have spoken of 20%, 25%, even 35%. Why was such a magical number released?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U107	Maybe it's because it used to be 10% in some kind of character number. In fact, I think that the financing of recent years has been reviewed, which has also been at the 10% threshold. It was certainly already known in the coalition agreement that funding would continue at the same level rather than decreasing. Well, I guess it was guided by that.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U108	Tarmo Tamm, the third question cannot be asked. [[Interjection.]] You're not gonna get the floor, it's just a negotiation. No further questions. Thank you very much, Deniss Borodich. Is there a desire to negotiate? Please, Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U109	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It is very difficult to argue that local roads require better funding. I, too, have declared this from this remote control, and I can assure you that the Social Democrats, also in opposition, have always been of the opinion that the road money for local budgets could be greater. On the other hand, this year's EUR 28.1 million is not the only amount to invest on local roads. I have to commend local governments across Estonia from this remote control, who have found sums of money from their budget in order to keep local roads more or less in running order. I would not like to oppose child benefits or any kind of social benefits and money on roads. That would be petty, because they both need money. I also disagree with what was said in this Chamber that the coalition is giving to its own, but not to others. It's not that simple. For the sake of truth, it has to be said that 41% of Estonian roads are local roads. However, when you look at passing through, driving on local roads accounts for only 15% of all journeys. 60% of the trips take place on state roads and 25% on the streets of Tallinn, Pärnu and Tartu. With regard to the sums of recent years, yes, there has been a drastic reduction. This culminated in 2011 and now these amounts have started to increase gradually again. I have to shake a bit of ash on my head, look right at the hall and say, yes, when these difficult years were over, there was a search for ways to give local budgets more money to finance local roads, and this year the funding has returned to 10%. But I've even been in the government when that percentage was 15. Now I'm talking about the transport development plan. Yes, it is indeed planned to allocate up to 10% of excise duties on fuel to local authorities. But one more thing I will remind you of. The principles and possibilities of road maintenance financing will be reviewed as a whole after local roads have been inventoried and their condition and number of users have been identified. I understand that inventory is being dealt with now, and if this data ever gets between the covers, it is definitely the basis for the Ministry of Economic Affairs to allocate more road funding to local budgets. The Soot don't mind, I repeat, financing local roads. However, I would point out that there are even many fixed items in the budget. If we make another fixed item of expenditure, then in more difficult years, if the fall is not only in local budgets, but also in the state budget, we must begin to change the law again. That's why we're against this bill. Perhaps less has been said about the fact that today, in the Committee on Economic Affairs, the draft law on the amendment of the road law initiated by the government is being prepared for its first reading. We'll hear what the Minister of Economic Affairs comes to us with. I repeat, according to the coalition agreement next year, the money on the local roads will not be reduced. What is the result of the election in 2015 is shown by the time, but I am very sure that, even if there is an increase in the government, these amounts will increase. Thanks!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U110	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U111	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Now I got an addition to what I already knew. After all, the coalition has promised to analyse how local government reform can be carried out and what local governments are all about, and how to tax the money taken out of Estonia by banks. It now became clear that you cannot be financed with a higher percentage because it must be made clear how many roads there are in the local governments of the Republic of Estonia. I was quite surprised. But to Mr Morozov, I say that the Road Act in force until 1 March 2009 stipulated that at least 10% of the amount earmarked for road maintenance in the state budget would be allocated to investments on local roads. Paragraph 16 (3) of the Road Act was also amended by the Act amending the State's additional budget and related laws in 2009 and the requirement to date was abolished. This 10% comes from the law that once existed in Estonia. As you remember, after this law was abolished, 6.5% was allocated to local government roads as an average of three years. Therefore, our modest desire is to fix this percentage in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U112	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U113	Thank you. Any more calls? No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The Commission's proposal is that draft 618 should be rejected at first reading. We have to vote through this. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft proposal of the commission to reject it at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 48 members of the Riigikogu voted against, 32 against, with no abstentions. The draft has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U114	The next item is the first reading of the draft Act amending § 15 of the VAT Act initiated by the members of the Riigikogu, Juku-Kalle Raidi, Olga Sõtnik, Priit Sibula, Mart Meri and Andres Herkel. I would like to present a speech chair with Andres Herkel, member of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U115	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, This bill and its explanatory memorandum were prepared by Juku-Kalle Raid, when he was still a member of the Riigikogu, and with him it is, indeed, initiated by Olga Sõtnik, Priit Sibul, Mart Meri and the speaker here. I have to say, as an introduction, that I was only the third choice of waitress for this bill. Unfortunately, Juku-Kalle Raid has left the Riigikogu. Why the Social Democrats thought it best not to make this presentation by Mart Meri is somewhat incomprehensible. I'm sure he knows the publishing world and the whole thing better than I do. I would also say now that, if the representatives of the political groups are so generous and speaking in the negotiations, you would be very modest in asking that you should also name the names of the initiators of the draft. Otherwise, none of us can argue against those who reject this draft during the negotiations, unless the Social Democrats have presented Mart Meri as a speaker. Unfortunately, this is our Rules of Procedure. The content of the draft is simple: to reduce VAT on books from 9% to 5%, as it once was. As we know, the VAT regime on books has been reduced, in 1999, if I remember correctly, and under the economic downturn, it was raised from 5% to 9%. I also think I remember that, at least in part, such a justification or excuse for the fact that it was due to the difficult economic situation in which the country was then and that it was promised that, if possible, the 5% rate would be restored. I refer to a few points in the draft explanatory memorandum, which has given rise to some controversy. First of all, in the case of such changes, the question is what their impact on the state budget will be. Here, estimates differ considerably. The draft has said that the change represents a cost of EUR 1 million per year to be covered. In the opinion of the Government of the Republic, the Ministry of Finance argues that a reduction in VAT from 9% to 5% would reduce tax receipts by about EUR 3 million. The letter from Toomas Leito to Mart Meri, which I have at my disposal, confirms that the country received EUR 3 million from VAT last year, which means that by lowering the VAT rate from 9% to 5%, the state will lose revenue within the limit of EUR 1.5 million. Perhaps it seems to me that it is EUR 3 million with which the Government of the Republic operates, rather than the total revenue that would be lost in lowering the tax rate. Speaking of the philosophical point of departure of the initiator of the draft, what he first mentions is, in my opinion, very important. This is the preamble of the Constitution, which says that the nature and purpose of the Estonian state is to protect and preserve the Estonian language and culture through the ages. The functioning of the Estonian-language book market will certainly contribute to this and is remarkable even in comparison with the much larger nations, but still gentle and fragile. We need our efforts to maintain this, given our shrinking population and perhaps in the future, also shrinking readings. The originator has said that, compared to the European average, our own language is in a fairly good state, more books appear than ever before. I think this argument is true in a broad perspective. When it comes to the beginning of the 21st century, given the small size of our people, the selection of Estonian-language books, both original and translation works, is indeed remarkable. But I'm going to bring in a set of data that quite vividly describes the effects of the recession on the book publishing situation. The editor-in-chief of the publishing house Tauno Vahter confirmed in an article published in early 2013 that while 4685 titles were published in Estonia in 2008, some 3700 names were published in 2011 and there is a tendency that this decrease will unfortunately continue. According to Toomas Leito, the peak year of book publishing was before the start of the recession, in 2008, when the turnover amounted to EUR 33.35 million. Between 2009 and 2010, publishing was hit by a fall of around 25%, with a slight return of turnover in 2011 rising to EUR 25 million. The increase in the years ahead has been +3% and +7%, in other words, the pre-masus book market has not been restored in Estonia so far. The same is confirmed by the turnover of the publishers' Union member publishers. It should be said that not all publishers belong to the Publishers' Association, but the dynamics here are the same: EUR 28 million in 2008, EUR 22 million in 2009, EUR 19 million in 2010 and a small increase last year, EUR 21 million in turnover. This confirms that as a result of the economic downturn, the turnover of book publishing in Estonia also fell for granted, and it has remained at that level. It would certainly be right now to take a step towards reducing VAT in order to improve the situation. I will also say a few words about the opinion of the Government of the Republic. I think that opinion is philosophically biased. He deals with book publishing in the same key as the production of boots or nails; he sees no remarkable distinction in this commodity, which is seen by the initiators of the draft, also referring to the Constitution. Furthermore, in the opinion of the Government of the Republic, I believe that there are two completely contradictory statements. One of them says that those who can buy books will benefit from the lowest tax rate. The second argument states that there is no link between a reduction in the tax rate and an increase in royalties or a reduction in the price of books. Publishers also disagree with this view, who consider that this step could result in an increase in copyright fees of 50% to 60% and a decrease in the cover price of books, or at least a slowdown. To sum up, the initiators of the draft do not want to go into a scholastic debate about exactly where the money goes. But the Estonian-language book market, as such, certainly needs to be revived. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U116	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Siim Kisler!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U117	Thank you. Good waitress! Yeah, I agree, it's hard to figure out exactly where the money is going. But do you still have a more accurate analysis of the effect? I've seen that if the book is now worth 10 euros at the store, which seems to be a fairly logical price, this price change would be 37 cents rounded up. What effect can this have on the market as a whole? Is this not a completely marginal effect on the publishing market, too?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U118	Thank you. I agree that this effect is relatively small. It will certainly be lower than when the VAT rate is reduced from 18% to 5% at the time, because we are now lowering the rate from 9% to 5%, but I do not agree that it has no meaning. First, it has symbolic meaning. Secondly, it may be appropriate to leave this money in the system instead of talking about increasing other subsidies that have been made from time to time, but which have not been realised to an outstanding extent in recent times. So there's definitely an effect. Once again, I stress that the positions of the Government of the Republic and book publishers are diametrically different. Publishers say that this change would either allow 50-60% to increase royalties, which are known to be impertinently low in Estonia, due to the small number of our readers, or reduce the price of books.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U119	Thank you. Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U120	Mr Herkel! In my sincere opinion, the value added tax on books and theatre and concert tickets should be equal. Currently, VAT on books is 9% and VAT on theatre and concert tickets is 20%. Your proposal will further increase this distinction. Would it not have been better to start with a proposal to reduce VAT on theatre and concert tickets to the same level as VAT on books?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U121	Thank you. This issue has also been on the agenda before. The initiators of the draft act did not raise this issue in this form. I do not think that theatre makers should be jealous if the VAT rate on books is reduced. But I think that as a member of the Riigikogu of the Government Coalition, you will certainly have the opportunity to raise this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U122	Thank you. Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U123	Thank you. Dear waitress, Did the initiators not discuss that, if a revision of VAT were to be made, a 0% VAT could be introduced, which would avoid bureaucracy, settlement and everything else, because this monetary income is not significant for this sector either? If there was a zero rate, it would be simpler, more transparent and more understandable and everyone would be easier.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U124	Thank you. The initiators were exceptionally generous against the fiscal policy of the country and did not bring this rate to such a low level. I would also point out that the draft law proposed the date of entry into force of 1 January 2016, which is why the government and the government coalition would certainly have the opportunity to adapt to this small change in itself. I can only point out that the VAT on books is indeed 0% in the two Member States of the European Union. These countries are Ireland and the United Kingdom. In addition, books from European countries have 0% VAT in Norway. So, in principle, it would certainly be worth considering in the future. I would like to stress once again that, in the case of such a small country and a nation, the functioning of the book market that we currently have is a small miracle. I have visited the capitals of many larger countries and nations, and I have not seen bookshops as modern as well equipped with literature in my own language as they are in Estonia. This is our extraordinary wealth. But I assure you, knowing a little bit about the conditions under which publishers are currently operating, this situation is in the air, and we need to support this activity. So this 0% rate, if it's feasible, I wouldn't rule it out in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U125	Thank you. Please, Rein Lang!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U126	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I'm sure the initiators know exactly how the book market works in Estonia. In this regard, I have two questions for you. First of all, do the initiators know what the average commercial markup is in Estonia today, or what is the percentage by which the retail price of the books is higher than the price for which the merchant receives books from the publisher? Secondly, how is the Estonian book market divided, how many book merchants are there and how is the market divided among them as a percentage?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U127	Thank you. I am not able to answer this question as a percentage, but knowing the real content of this question, I say that yes, indeed, the mark-up may at times be quite high. I've seen nearly 50% of the price of publishing books sold more expensive in stores. So it's probably true. The second problem is certainly that there is a certain concentration in book sales. The great chains Apollo and the Rahva Raamat have developed and the disappearance of smaller bookstores from smaller centres is certainly a problem. However, this draft does not aim to regulate this issue of the book market. However, I think that the book market in Estonia is not a matter of such weight as the pharmacy market that we have discussed here. In my opinion, it is extremely important that the book market still functions relatively well.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U128	Thank you. Please, Priit Onion!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U129	Thank you, Mr President. Good Andres! How did you feel about the coalition or the Committee on Monetary Affairs not supporting this bill? Is the reason for the substance or is it believed that major money problems will arise in 2016 and that this change will not be realised?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U130	Thank you. I was in the Committee on Monetary Affairs at the meeting where this issue was discussed, and I still heard one encouraging signal. Perhaps later, the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs will confirm this. The idea of promoting book publishing in Estonia by some other means emerged. I'm sure this area needs more support. However, as far as the grounds for rejecting the draft by the Government of the Republic are concerned, I believe that, as I pointed out above, these grounds are quite absurd and even contradicting in this sense that different arguments are being used. One sentence states that only the richer people who are book consumers would benefit from the reduction in VAT, and the second sentence states that this change will have no effect on the final price of books. In my opinion, unfortunately, it is our usual practice that when a draft comes from the Riigikogu, even if it has been presented by representatives of different political groups, as is currently the case, the Government of the Republic is acting arrogantly. The Riigikogu, with the support of various political groups, could adopt a more dictatorial attitude, including on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U131	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I wanted to refute one of Rein Lang's statements. A good colleague, Rein, has dealt with books a lot. During his ministry, he gave suggestions on which books could be borrowed from libraries and which were not. I think that speaking about books, as the good minister did that time, is in any case reasonable and necessary. The fact that we are also talking about books and problems with prices or the substantive side of this bill is, I think, important and necessary. I speak for myself now, but my colleagues, Mart Meri, Andres Herkel and Olga Soldier, can tell themselves whether they think this is the case or not. I mean, this bill certainly doesn't serve the interests of just two bookstores. This bill serves a lot of wider interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U132	Mart Meri's name was named, he has the right to reply with a reply.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U133	Thank you. Indeed, the aim of this draft is to draw attention to an important field of activity such as publishing books and not only that, but also the availability of books. In my opinion, the very important indicator is that, apart from the increase in VAT and, of course, the intermediate recession, public libraries are no longer able to obtain as many books as they used to be. Unacquired libraries are quite large, 75,000 copies in one year, and 30,000 additional copies in the next year. This shows that the processes in the book market are out of place. Precise analyses may be very few, but they should be done. These more detailed analyses could be carried out during the further procedure of this draft. It would also be possible to assess whether the role of two large wholesale companies is too large and malicious, or whether it reflects the normal reality of a small country's book market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U134	Rein Lang, please, on behalf of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U135	Honourable manager! Since my name was mentioned here, I consider it necessary to intervene in this discussion. First of all, I've never suggested to any library to get there or not. That was a clarification. I think that this approach that, if the VAT rate is reduced, the retail price of things will be reduced, is more a matter of faith. This is not a question of legalism or economics, but a purely religious issue. All analyses to date have shown that lowering or raising the VAT rate in itself does not automatically change the retail price. But I have no doubt about the goodwill of the drafters to help the written word in Estonian and its distribution. Only this method of reducing the VAT rate of all that is poured into books is the worst method. That's what I was gonna say. If the market situation has developed, where the market is more or less divided between two companies and the commercial mark-up for products approaches 50%, then it may not be Einstein, in order to understand that this proposal of yours, a reduction in the VAT rate, would benefit most of these two companies. So don't understand me as if I wanted to draw your attention to the fact that you represent their interests here. You have obviously presented a draft that would benefit the most of these two companies, with a clear lack of knowledge. Less would be the ones you stand up for. According to this logic, I think it would be much better not to reduce the VAT rate, perhaps even to increase it, provided that the funds received go, even as direct payments, to the development of Estonian culture and the publication of Estonian-language publications. This would be several times more reasonable than sharing money in the form of winning merchants, foresters and others who are currently involved in the production of paper books. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U136	Since Andres Herkel's name was named earlier, I'm giving him the opportunity to make a statement of opposition. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U137	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. This objection now goes back to Rein Lang. Yes, it can be considered formally that there are two companies on one side and 300 publishers on the other side. But we are summarily of the view that the 300 publishers who may be small players on the business market will benefit more from this bill, but it must be remembered that this change will definitely revive the Estonian book market as such. I refer here once again to the analysis of publishers, which confirms that 50 to 60% of this winning amount would go both to royalties and to cover a small drop in the book price.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U138	Mart Meri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U139	Okay. I'm closing the negotiations. Honourable Riigikogu, the commission has proposed to reject draft 630 at first reading. We must vote on this proposal. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft proposal of the commission 630 to reject it at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There are 42 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the commission's proposal and 11 against with one abstention. The bill has fallen out of procedure. Today's trial is over. Closure of the sitting at 12.25 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U140	Thank you. Please, Rein Lang, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U141	Thank you, Mr President. Good Andres! As a polite, honest person, you answered my question, but almost exactly. According to my information, the average commercial mark-up for books is between 40% and 50%, and the book market is divided between two companies. Did the initiators not consider that this bill could be titled, for example, 'Two Bills of Support for the bookshops'?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U142	Thank you. It is certainly not a draft law supporting two book merchants, but a draft law supporting publishing activities and the Estonian book market.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U143	Thank you. Please, Jaak Allik, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U144	Dear waitress, In ancient times, there was also a great deal in Estonia, such as the issue of a book with its own cost and letters. Do you have any idea how much this form is now and how these people will come out?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U145	Thank you. From time to time, when I look at the name of the publisher, I've still come across such publications. I think that in this case, it is usually either a deliberate payment by the publisher himself or, on the contrary, the consideration that it is possible to keep most of the profits in the hands of the publisher himself. Apparently, there are so- and different practices. I can only refer to the above data. When the Union of Publishers evaluated ♪ I am talking again about the pre-masus top-level turnover of 28 million euros, another analysis, by Toomas Leito, estimates it to be 33 million to 35 million euros. Consequently, the rest of the books have been published elsewhere, not in the publishers' Union members' publishers. But these publishers may not all be individual scribes who even have published a book with their own expense and letters. We live in a democratic country, and these opportunities are diverse.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U146	Thank you. I'm coming to help you with a question. Are you aware that publishing and the surrounding areas are one of the largest areas of Estonian creative industries, with nearly 300 companies and an estimated 3000 people involved in Estonia before the massacre? One of the objectives of the draft is to support this whole of the most important area of creative industries.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U147	Thank you. Absolutely! In addition, I think that this bill will definitely support Estonian culture as a whole, it will support libraries, etc. I can only remind you, on this point, that if anyone from the political groups comes to speak, please state the name of Mart Meri, because he can add something else.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U148	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. The rapporteur for the Monetary Commission is Rannar Vassilyev, chairman of the committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U149	Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Finance discussed the draft that was just presented to you on 20 May. Members of the Riigikogu Mart Meri and Andres Herkel introduced the draft as representatives of the initiators. As mentioned, the aim of the draft is to reduce the VAT rate for books and books used as a tool of study established by the VAT Act from 9% to 5%. I will give a brief overview of the issues that have been the subject of the debate in the Commission and of what the Government of the Republic stated in its opinion. According to the initiators, this measure can protect the Estonian book market both in the context of consumption and the issuance of books. The Ministry of Finance does not support a reduction in the rate because books already have a reduced VAT rate of 9%. No lower VAT rates currently exist in Estonia. Like books and workbooks, the VAT rate is 9% for medicines, healthcare and accommodation services, while the VAT rate for other goods and services is 20%. According to the Ministry, reduced rates are not favoured. The link between the reduction of the VAT rate and the objectives of the draft was also called into question. I will give you a brief overview of the facts of the past mentioned in the letter from the Ministry of Finance. Indeed, if the VAT rate was then usually lowered from 18% to 5%, the price of the books fell by 4% at the beginning of the year compared to the end of the previous year, although the so-called mathematically speaking decrease should have been 11%. Perhaps it can be said that about a third of the fall in VAT reached the final price. If this proportion is maintained, it can be assumed that the reduction in price associated with the proposed change will be 1%. The Ministry of Finance also referred to 2004 when the VAT rate for accommodation and over-the-counter journalism was lowered. Then prices didn't fall. It is correct to mark here that depending on the product or service, the reaction to tax changes can and usually is different. So if the prices of journalism and accommodation services did not change, it might not be the same for books. However, it can be assumed that the overall fall in VAT will certainly not exceed the final price. Which is exactly what this proportion is, it's hard to say, but it's likely to be more clueless from an 18% to a 5% reduction. It can be assumed that about a third of what this effect might mean mathematically could still be presently. In its letter, the Ministry of Finance also indicated that the OECD's recommendation to Member States to waive tax exemptions was ineffective. This recommendation has also been given to Estonia, although Estonia has relatively few tax exemptions compared to other countries. An exceptional country is Denmark, where tax exemptions are not available. The Ministry of Finance also questioned the estimated budgetary impact of the initiators at EUR 1 million. The Ministry of Finance has identified a forecast effect of EUR 3 million. In the Commission, the initiators were asked about their belief that the VAT reduction would necessarily reach the final price. The initiators said that they did not have a specific analysis, rather an opinion. For example, Latvia brought forward a situation where VAT on books was increased and publishing activity decreased by 40% thereafter. It was also mentioned that the final price might not be reduced, but the initiators thought that this VAT change could stop the price increase for a certain period. There was also an interest in the general logic of the Ministry of Finance in the case of VAT exemptions, for example in the case of accommodation services. A representative of the Ministry of Finance said that they generally agree that there could be fewer exceptions, but there are currently no plans to abolish the VAT exemption for accommodation services in the country's budget strategy. It was also asked that, assuming that this draft had an impact on the budget of 3 million, and if the initiators could be allocated EUR 3 million from the state budget, would it be possible to achieve the objective stated in the draft in any other way? In addition, grants were mentioned for cultural capital and public libraries to obtain books. It was asked whether the government had discussed raising VAT on books from 9% to 20%, i.e. abolishing the current reduced VAT rate. The representative of the Ministry of Finance replied that such a debate had not occurred in the course of the country's budget strategy, perhaps not planned. As a result, the Commission took the following decisions: to put the draft on the agenda by Tuesday, 3 June, (unanimously) and to propose that the draft be rejected at first reading (with 6 votes in favour and 2 abstentions). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U150	There are questions for the waitress. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U151	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! You mentioned that there are currently two different VAT rates: 20% and 9%, and 0% for exports. But if we were to restore the 5% rate, what would be the biggest concern in your opinion? Why don't you support different rates?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U152	There was no direct discussion in the Commission on this issue, but when you asked for my personal opinion, I say that it is reasonable to consider the following above all in this decision. If the government that receives the mandate in the March 2015 elections has these potentially EUR 3 million in 2016, we could look at whether it is more reasonable to use this money to lower the VAT rate or whether other measures could be taken to activate, for example, publishing activities. It's probably a little tricky to lower the price of books by other means, but it's theoretically possible. But this money can also be used to increase the fees. In my opinion, the first question is whether this is the optimal way to use EUR 3 million. Secondly, if the VAT rate on books could be 5% instead of 9%, I have a question about medicines and health services. If we have a reduced VAT rate of 5%, would it be justified to leave their VAT rate at 9%? Personally, I would focus on these aspects when dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U153	Mart Meri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U154	Thank you. Good waitress! 3 million and 1.5 million. However, do you consider it possible that the EUR 3 million mentioned in the letter from the Ministry of Finance covers the total value added tax on books and the actual amount of the tax reduction is rather EUR 1.5 million? That $3 million was very important in your speech. That is why I am asking that maybe this EUR 3 million represents the total value added tax (VAT) coming from book production.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U155	I probably can't figure out the right amount of money in this remote control, and I can't even calculate it at all. Initiators talk about EUR 1 million in the draft, later adjusted for EUR 1.5 million, the Ministry of Finance is talking about EUR 3 million. I can imagine what this difference might have come from. I could be wrong, of course. I don't know if this 3 million is included in the cost of textbooks and workbooks, for example. But in any case, it would make sense to solve this mathematical question so that we know the correct amount of what this change means to the budget, whether it is EUR 1.5 million or EUR 3 million. It is undoubtedly quite important whether the effect is twice as much or less. So if there's a computational problem here, I think we can ask the Treasury how they got that result.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U156	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U157	Thank you. Dear waitress, In your answers, you said that if the VAT on books were to be reduced from 9% to 5%, then the VAT on medicines and health services could be the same. At the same time, my colleague Jaak Allik said that tickets to theatre and concerts should have the same value added tax as books. Does the government and the government coalition have any more general, comprehensive understanding of what this VAT exemption policy could be, or is the situation just as it is, and so it will be? Or do you have some kind of systemic approach?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U158	Thank you. I'm still adjusting. I did not say that VAT on medicines and healthcare should fall from 9% to 5%. I said that if the VAT on books were to be reduced, I think one aspect that should be taken into account in this case is that the VAT on medicines would remain at 9%, which would be significantly higher, and the question arises as to whether this reduction is justified in this light. As far as the general policy on reduced VAT rates is concerned, it can be said that the government and the coalition do not currently, during this period, intend to reduce any VAT rate, i.e. there are no VAT changes planned.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U159	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U160	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Is the result given here, on 1 January 2016, sufficient to enable the Ministry of Finance to solve this mathematical problem, whether it is EUR 3 million or EUR 1.5 million?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U161	I can't make promises here directly for executive power, but I think that this time is probably enough to make this mathematical process right again.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-03_U162	Thank you. No further questions. I will open negotiations, the representatives of the political groups may speak. Priit Sibul, please, on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica.
