ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-18_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the 9th working week Tuesday session of the 8th plenary session of the Riigikogu. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please, Mikhail Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-18_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Centre Party Group, I will address an inquiry to the Minister for Education and Science. Not very long ago, an audit was carried out in schools, resulting in a report on the effectiveness of the teaching of upper secondary schools using Russian language during the transition to upper secondary school in Estonian. The purpose of the working group that drew up the report was to give an overview of the state of play and future problems of the transition to study in Estonian. The report's conclusions state that the transition of schools to upper secondary school education in Estonian is often merely a formal achievement, the connection of which is questionable in terms of improving the skills of the Estonian language. In addition, neither teachers nor students believe that the transition to a part-time study in Estonian will improve the state language skills of upper secondary school graduates. The quality of knowledge acquisition is linked not to the language of instruction but to the overall success of education at school. The report identifies the serious shortcomings that have occurred in the transition to Estonian-language education in Russian schools. Much is said about the fact that the transition to education in Estonian is of a formal rather than substantive nature. We would like to find out from the Minister why the substantive objectives of the reform have not been met and what the Ministry intends to do in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-18_U3	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-18_U4	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I will present an inquiry to the Minister of Education and Research. It's about youth work. On 9 May 2011, the Riigikogu Central Party Group submitted a draft law amending the Youth Work Act and the Social Tax Act, which number 38 SE. It's been through the first reading, and it's been lying around in a box since then. The purpose of the draft was to exempt employers from paying social tax on the salaries of young people in employment who were employed by the student. We have been discussing this with the former Minister for Education and we are interested in what the current minister thinks about this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-18_U5	Thank you. No further drafts or enquiries are recommended. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two inquiries. If they comply with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu shall forward them to the addressee without delay. Now we're going to do a presence check. 83 members of the Riigikogu have been registered and 18 members are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-18_U6	We will address today's item on the agenda. The third reading of the draft law amending the State Border Act, the Customs Act and the Police and Border Guard Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Is there a desire to negotiate? Please, Urmas Reinsalu! Mr. Reinsalu would like to speak for eight minutes. Good hall, please, let's keep it down a bit!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-18_U7	The Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance supports this bill and we will vote in favour of it. However, there is one fact that was the subject of a very serious debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and which I consider appropriate to mention on behalf of our group. This draft, in its original form, contained a number of technical provisions leading to the relaxation of border procedures. This is a viable and technically necessary thing to do. At the proposal of the Ministry of the Interior, the question arose that we should define more legally the legal basis for a temporary check line. In the current state border law, there is a political compromise on this sensitive issue, on the issue of the state border, at the time, that is to say, the fact that there is no definition of who will specify the temporary control line. As we know, the legal basis for the progress of the temporary check line is currently laid down by the Order of Roland Peets, former Director General of the Border Guard Board. Due to the construction of border facilities, and also due to disputes with private owners, government representatives have put forward an argument that it would be fit for purpose in order to avoid possible legal disputes with third parties if the State were to establish a clearer legal basis for this, in a winding-up manner a temporary check line would be established. Legal disputes have not occurred in 20 years, but they have now been referred to. If these disputes exist, Parliament will certainly have to react. The solution, which has been proposed and which has also reached the law in a slightly modified form, is that the temporary control line is set by the government on a simple mandate. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not support the establishment of a temporary baseline on the basis of a simple mandate; this principle was slightly modified. There were two basically different approaches. Some political forces supported the establishment of a temporary check line in an annex to the State Border Act. The representatives of the coalition, however, took the view that this should be the responsibility of the Government of the Republic, that the government would receive a general standard of delegation and that this would be the basis for establishing the control line. Hardly any government in the near future would want to abuse this competence. We're sure of it. It is clear that I think it is important to stress this in Parliament's Chair that, when we talk about the Committee on Constitutional Affairs' understanding of how the baseline is going both now and in the future, we are talking about the current line of reference, not some hypothetical or additional competence that should arise in Parliament. In the opinion of the Fatherland and Res Publica Association, it would have been more appropriate if the "coordination" of the control line had been annexed to the State Border Act, but the representatives of the coalition felt that this was not feasible and this competence had to be given to the government. It is important to emphasise that if we vote in favour of this law, we will be guided by the clear and unambiguous point of view expressed by the representatives of the Government of the Republic with the majority in approving their legal design, that the temporary line of reference will run until the entry into force of the border treaty, exactly where it is physically going, there will be no spatial change of a centimeter. Consequently, the Government can only have the power to approve the check line defined by the former Director-General of the Border Guard Board, Roland Peets. We could have determined an issue as important as the determination of the space in which the Republic of Estonia exercises its factual power at the level of the annex to the Act. If the coalition decided that this must be done by giving a general delegation rule to the Government of the Republic, then we will support this law with the knowledge that Parliament will approve today only that the Government of the Republic fixes an existing control line. The government has requested a mandate to be fixed in order to avoid possible hypothetical disputes with third parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-18_U8	Thank you. Almost three minutes left. Any more calls? No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. We are going to the final vote, because the lead committee has proposed that the draft be put to the final vote. Would Kalev Eagle like to make a reply? Would you like to come here and talk? No. Would you like to take the floor? No.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-18_U9	No, thank you. There's a little problem with the remote.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-18_U10	The remote has become active. We're preparing for the vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the State Border Act, the Customs Act and the Police and Border Guard Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 701. Please take a stand and vote. 82 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law. Ladies and gentlemen, our agenda has been exhausted. I wish everyone a nice day. See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 10:14 a.m.
