ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the Tuesday session of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu on the 14th working week. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. Please, Lauri Vahtre!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U2	Madam President! Honourable Riigikogu! I have an inquiry to make to Chancellor of Justice, Indrek Teder, about incitement to hatred in the Stolitsa newspaper. The inquiry is formulated as four questions. Firstly, to what extent is the activities of the newspaper Stolitsa, i.e. the transmission of Russia's official positions and propaganda lies, and the consistent persuasion of the reader that the Estonian state is treating the Russian population unfairly, in the light of the circumstances of the current Ukrainian crisis, in breach of Articles 12 and 48 of the Constitution, which prohibit incitement of national hatred and associations aimed at a violent change of constitutional order? Secondly, has the city of Tallinn followed the principles of fundamental rights and freedoms and good administration when issuing the newspaper Stolitsa? Thirdly, has the Chancellor of Justice carried out any monitoring procedures regarding the legitimacy of the extradition of Tallinn's newspapers Stolitsa and Capital, respect for fundamental rights and freedoms or compliance with good administrative practice? If so, what are the results? Fourthly, is it lawful to use the budget resources of Tallinn for publishing the newspapers Stolitsa and Capital? An inquiry has been made by the delegates Vahtre, Parts, Kiisler, Reinsalu and Pakosta.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U3	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the six members of the Central Party Group, I will address an inquiry to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. The question is about the poor prospects for growth. Yesterday Estonia's economic indicators were published for the first quarter and it turned out that economic growth has slowed down. Unlike our southern neighbours, our gross domestic product fell by 1.9%. In a situation where the Estonian state is operating according to the forecast of the Ministry of Finance, according to which the economy should have increased by 2% in 2014, the correction of the state budget must be seriously considered. As we know, changes in GDP will not immediately affect tax receipts, but in some time they will obviously have an impact on budget planning for next year. In the 1.9% recession mentioned, the clear impact of the events in Ukraine is not yet visible either. One of the causes of the recession is this warm winter, which reduced household heating bills. At the same time, the reduced domestic costs are not reflected in the increase in the savings rate. So it can't be assumed that people saved home expenses and put that money aside. On the contrary, it seems that this money went into private consumption and is thus reflected in total production. As a result of this situation, we are asking the Prime Minister four questions. The latter concerns the promise of the prime minister's predecessor, Andrus Ansip, who, seven years ago, promised to move Estonia to the five richest European countries in 15 years, but in reality our GDP has not even reached the 2007 level again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U5	Thank you. Before I invite the next person to the speaker's desk, please be a little quieter in the Chamber, Honourable Riigikogu. The buzzing's like a hive!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U6	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen,
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U7	I'm sorry, Imre Sooäär! The buzz hasn't subsided. Please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U8	Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of the decision taken at its meeting on 12 May, the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu issues a draft 'Constitution of the Estonian delegation of the Interparliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Latvia'. As we know, recent changes in the composition of the Riigikogu have also led to changes in the Riigikogu's foreign delegations, and the Riigikogu's Foreign Affairs Committee has made its decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U9	Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted a draft. The Board of the Riigikogu decides to accept this procedure in accordance with the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act. I have also adopted two enquiries and if they comply with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu shall forward them to the addressee without delay. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. Currently 86 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, 15 are missing. Let's go to today's agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U10	I'm asking for a little more attention, too much buzz in the hall! Anyone who wants to talk may do so elsewhere. The first item is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu on 'Construction of the Estonian Delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe' tabled by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. For a presentation, please address the Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Enn Eesmaa!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U11	At the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on 2 April, the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly discussed changes in the composition of the Estonian delegation on the basis of proposals from the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the Group of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union and the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The proposal of the Social Democratic Party Group is to appoint Jaak Allik as an alternate member of the Estonian delegation of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly and Barbi-Jenny Pilvre-Storgård as an alternate member. The proposal of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Association is to propose that Juhan Parts be proposed as the alternate member of the delegation, and the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party is to propose that Jaanus Tamkivi be proposed as the alternate member of the delegation. The Committee on Foreign Affairs decided to submit a draft decision of the Riigikogu to amend the composition of the Estonian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe by supporting the proposals of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of the Riigikogu, the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. The deadline for amendments was 2 May. a, but they were not submitted. At the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on 5 May, the following was decided by consensus: to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday 13 May, to hold the final vote on the draft and to adopt the draft as a decision. The draft of the Committee on Foreign Affairs at first reading is before you. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U12	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Enn Frontland! Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote of 659. We are preparing for the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I will put to the final vote a draft of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the 'Constitution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe' by the Committee on Foreign Affairs 659. Please take a stand and vote. There are 75 parliamentarians in favour of the decision, no respondents or abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U13	The second item is the first reading of the draft decision of the Committee on the Environment entitled 'Appointing the members of the Supervisory Board of the Environmental Investment Centre' by the Riigikogu. For a presentation, please address the Chair of the Environment Committee, Rainer Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U14	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to present to you the draft decision proposed by the Committee on the Environment entitled 'Appointing the members of the Supervisory Board of the Environmental Investment Centre'. According to § 56 (1) of the Environmental Fees Act, four members are appointed as members of the Supervisory Board of the Environmental Investment Centre of the Foundation by decision of the Riigikogu on the proposal of the Environmental Committee of the Riigikogu. As the members of the Supervisory Board are appointed for a period of three years in accordance with point 4.3 of the Statutes of the Environmental Investment Centre, approved by the Minister of Finance by Order No 8 of 20 January 2011, the mandate of Rein Randver and Tõnis Kõiv, members of the Supervisory Board, is deemed to have expired due to the expiry of the deadline. The mandate of Siim Kabrits as a member of the Supervisory Board has ended with the end of his term of office as a member of the Riigikogu on 26 March 2014. On the basis of the previous decision of the Committee on the Environment of 5 May 2014, the Committee on the Environment will submit a draft decision of the Riigikogu with the proposal to appoint the members of the Riigikogu to the Supervisory Board of the Environmental Investment Centre (KIK). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U15	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you, Rainer Vakra! Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote of 660. We are preparing for the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu entitled'Appointment of the members of the Supervisory Board of the Environmental Investment Centre', tabled by the Committee on the Environment, 660. Please take a stand and vote. 70 members of the Riigikogu voted against, 1 against and 4 abstentions. The draft has therefore been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U16	Today's third item is the second reading of the draft Act amending § 6 of the Estonian Flag Act, initiated by the National Defence Committee. I would like a speech by Väino Linde, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U17	Have a nice morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. No amendments to this draft were received by 30 April. At its meeting on 6 May, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed the preparation of the draft for second reading as a fourth item on the agenda. We decided ourselves, from our wisdom to make one technical amendment to this draft, which was based on this logic, that since the very quick time and flag day in the sense of the draft, the day of the veteran, 23 April, are over, the draft could become applicable in general, i.e. on the 10th day after the publication in the Official Journal of the State, rather than on the day following the publication in the Official Journal of the State according to the original scheme. Our consensual decision was that today could be the fine date for the second reading of this draft. If that is, ladies and gentlemen, the will of your majority, it would be nice if this bill could come to a third reading on 21 May. a. We propose that this bill be adopted as a law. Thanks, it was great!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U18	Thank you. Please, any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call either. There is one amendment to the draft; we will review it. The amendment has been proposed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the proposal of the commission is fully taken into account. The amendments have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 597. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U19	The fourth item is the first reading of the draft law amending the party law and advertising law initiated by the member of the Riigikogu, Valdo Randpere. For a presentation, please address a member of the Riigikogu, Valdo Randpere!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U20	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, I am standing before you with a bill that you can say is not only a very good bill, but also a beautiful one that has been made for a long time. I actually submitted it at the end of September last year, and after that, as you have certainly noticed, it has taken more than seven weeks, which is provided for in the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act to deal with one draft in the committee. In particular, we have coordinated this draft, we have considered it very seriously from a legal point of view, we have met several times with the working group and we have discussed various versions. So there is not much left of the original option, so I am actually before you today, as amended by the draft. When I said in the original draft that the law on the selection of local government should be amended, after reflection, discussion and consultation, I have concluded that it is more appropriate to concentrate and focus on the area of party and advertising law to achieve the objective of the draft. I will say a few words about the content and background of this draft. The drafting of the draft act was due to the need to clarify the rules on electoral agitation and advertising, insofar as there is an increasing number of cases in practice where the restrictions on electoral agitation and advertising are ignored and taxpayers' money is used to organise the campaign. The draft specifies a limitation on the use of public funds and provides that the Commission for the Monitoring of Financing of Political Parties will draw up a separate guide to clarify and clarify the use of public funds used for the electoral campaign or for this purpose. In order to limit unfair advertising, changes are made to the advertising law, which clearly defines that an election campaign can only be carried out at the expense of its own assets. The aim is to achieve a situation where public funds cannot support election advertising and exclude political agitation at the expense of the taxpayer. As has been said, the aim of the law is to prevent advertising campaigns from being organised for public funds and to create a situation where advertising campaigns can only be carried out for their own money. As the use of public money as an electoral campaign is common and repeated action, where good practice is not taken into account, I believe that the legislator must intervene. § 1 of the draft law amends and supplements the party law. The law amending the party law supplemented the party law and provided that the party was prohibited from using public funds to carry out or carry out the electoral campaign of a party or a candidate on its list, with the exception of the national budget allocations paid under this Act. Paragraph 1 (1) of the draft law specifies the wording and states that public funds within the meaning of the party law are all budgetary and other assets of a legal person governed by public or private law. This will cover all assets which are not the own resources of the person exercising political activity. Thus, for example, the local government units, as well as the state companies, foundations established by the local government or the state, as well as all other legal entities, are certainly covered. Paragraph 1 (2) of the draft law obliges the Commission to adopt, by decision, a guide to clarify and clarify the use of public funds used to carry out or carry out the electoral campaign. When preparing the guide, the Political Financing Monitoring Commission will involve experts in the relevant field, such as policy and advertising experts, representatives of NGOs, etc. If the Political Financing Supervisory Commission finds that the requirements of the law have been violated in the financing of advertising, the regulation of prohibited donations will be implemented. This means that advertising is considered as a prohibited donation in its own collection (because the advertising service is financially feasible). In the event that the person benefiting from the advertising does not itself establish that it is an advertising financed by public funds and does not return the amount spent on the advertising service to the person who paid for the advertising or, where appropriate, to the state budget, the Financing Monitoring Commission shall determine the price of the advertising service on the basis of the documents submitted and shall require the person who made the prohibited donation or to transfer the financial contribution to the state budget without delay. § 2 of the Bill supplements the Advertising Act and provides for an additional ban. Advertising of a party, a person who is candidates for the list of parties, an election union, a candidate and an individual candidate who is not funded by the political party's resources, etc., shall be prohibited. According to the wording of the draft act, the advertiser must take an ex ante assessment if he has doubts as to whether the advertisement has been paid from own resources or from public funds. To this end, he or she will have to contact the Political Financing Monitoring Committee. The draft does not contain previously unused terms in the legislation and fully complies with European Union law. I don't have anything else to say about the bill right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U21	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U22	Thank you. Good colleague! In recent years, we are hearing more and more 'no' when we talk about advertising law or party law. Now that political advertising has disappeared from the streets, the result of talking to people is rather surprising. Many do not know that the European Parliament elections will take place on 25 May. Do you not think that by constantly banning us, we will soon arrive at a situation in which only political party members will take part in the elections?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U23	Thank you for a good question. I don't want to confuse you, but I have to say I agree with you in part, to some extent. But in fact, this bill does not deal at all with the area you are dealing with in your question. We can discuss this separately in the future, and then we will certainly discuss how effective it is to implement any prohibitions concerning the form of advertising, publication, time, etc. The aim of the current draft is the principle that advertising should only be carried out at the expense of own resources and that public funds should not be used for this purpose. In the event of a breach of this principle, it is no longer possible to talk about simply a minor ethical error or something like that. In itself, it would be good if there were such a general social rule, which we could agree on and which would be followed by all political parties. In practice, however, it is precisely the party that you represent that has made me stand here on the remote.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U24	Thank you. Please, Rein Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U25	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I think we both know how local government lives seven days a week and 365 days a year. Sometimes the elections come in, and, oh, unfortunately, all the works and things are difficult to plan. As you certainly know very well, there is a very active action in our constituency to live on Earth, and there will also be business fairs and tourist fairs. In autumn there will also be municipal elections. How should the municipality behave to justify its actions? Are these activities a reputational campaign, a public activity of a local government or political advertising?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U26	Thank you, very good question! In fact, the answer to your question is why I am no longer talking about the amendment to the Local Government Election Act, as I did in September, but rather about the amendment to the Advertising Act and the Political Party Act. This area is very complex. On the one hand, it is necessary to define what political advertising is and, on the other hand, to determine the obligation of local government to provide information to the population, but it is difficult to define. Once again, the advantage of this draft is that we no longer set a time limit in the sense that three months before the elections or so. We are simply saying that if the Political Financing Monitoring Commission estimates that the purpose of a campaign is not to invite people to register as residents of the country or Tallinn, but the main objective is to exhibit one of the election candidates, it may propose to this candidate in a soft form or also as a sanction to require that the beneficiary pays the cost of advertising. Basically, I think it would be best if we had a social agreement and everyone kept it. Then there would be no need for sanctions or any way to deal with prohibitions and orders. Unfortunately, practice shows that it is not working.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U27	Thank you. Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U28	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, first of all, thank you for this draft. But I went into the annals of this procedure and I will come back to the first version of the draft. In the past, the problem was that the image campaign is an unfettered concept and it is difficult to define political advertising. I found in the verbatim report a representative of the Government of the Republic in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 11 November that the Chancellor of Justice had been in contact with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications on the issue of political advertising and its definition. Do you have any information on the results of this debate and do you consider it appropriate to define political advertising more precisely?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U29	Thank you for your question. Firstly, no, I do not know the content or the results of this correspondence. Secondly, if defining political advertising were as simple as it seemed from the question, it would probably have been done a long time ago. I wouldn't mind if we could give some kind of waterproof definition, but it seems like an impossible mission.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U30	Thank you. Please, Kalle Jents!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I also remember how the town of Tallinn's reputational campaign fell completely into the pre-local elections. A rather familiar feeling came a few days ago when I happened to see a TV commercial, where I learned again how well and wisely many things have been arranged and problems solved in the city of Tallinn. And as it happens, the campaign will run until May 25th. Some kind of prize was promised. However, the reputation campaign did not mention any candidates for the elections. As far as I can remember, there were no people back there, just the kind of ad that showed how smart and nice everything was going to be. Therefore, I ask if the law that you are fighting for was now in force, whether it was advertising or a reputational campaign in which individual individuals are not promoted, would still be allowed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U32	Thank you for a good question. In principle, apart from a specific candidate, the draft concerns a political party, an electoral alliance, etc. It all depends on what the Political Financing Monitoring Commission decides. In my opinion, in the case of favour of one party or one candidate, it should not be paid by the taxpayer. Sad to say, but once again, I am actually standing here largely because there is a party in Estonia that is grossly violating this practice and good practice, repeatedly and constantly. We have all seen these 'Tallinn helps' campaigns, the content of which in itself costs perhaps 200,000 kroons, but the advertising part is two million kroons. We will certainly remember the action that had been taken when the trees and potatoes rotted on the Freedom Square were transported, which was just before the elections. So he's a pretty crazy story, and unfortunately, it's difficult to block. If people still want to circumvent the law, I believe that this bill will also provide opportunities. But there is little hope that the attention of society and the press and our assessment of all of us will be a little hindered by the enthusiasm of people who are actually stealing public money to gain their favor.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U33	Thank you. Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U34	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I do not believe that this bill will solve anything in practice either, but at least I hope it will contribute to the promotion of political culture. But my question is about the forthcoming elections to the European Parliament. What about this law in case it comes into force? For example, if tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, Edgar Savisaar would present a propaganda speech in Tallinn's television, paid with the money of Tallinn's taxpayers, and on the same day Kaja Kallas would give an interview on the elections to the European Parliament in national broadcasting. How is this bill supposed to deal with these things? Are these comparable cases and should this be dealt with by the electoral committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U35	Thank you. This should be dealt with not by the Electoral Commission, but by the Political Financing Monitoring Commission. At the same time, however, I assume that no one can pay for national broadcasting with their own or foreign money. The ERR has been very neutral over time and has tried to share air time equally among all the candidates, so I don't think we're going to have any problems with that. Tallinn Television, however, is a phenomenon on which I have ever initiated a movement to end it. Unfortunately, it is still ticking at the expense of taxpayers' money and making propaganda for the ruling party in Tallinn.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U36	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U37	Thank you. Dear waitress, I guess there's a variety of campaign elements. Yesterday, we saw one here in the Riigikogu Hall, where it was declared that the Estonian state will do well thanks to the new government coalition, children will be happy with 45 euros, etc. It's no different than the campaign. I ask how to view the funding allocated from the state budget to NPOs as a hidden election campaign. What makes it different from the real campaign?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U38	As I have said before, this draft should be assessed by the Committee on the Monitoring of Financing of Political Parties. This committee will decide whether public money will be used to finance the campaign of a candidate or party. But compare it with the work of the Riigikogu and the decisions to be made here, I don't know. Basically, by that logic, you could stop the government. They should not do anything at all or only take unpopular decisions just before the elections. That's also absurd. Clearly, the government must act and do its business, it has nothing to do with the campaign. The question is, however, specifically that we are being frank about the fact that if the city of Tallinn takes nearly one million kroons from the taxpayers in the run-up to the election of local governments, it will put some penoplasty monsters in the air for this money and do one stupidity after another, which will not bring any benefit to the taxpayers, it seems unfair, unethical and also illegal to me.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U39	Thank you. Please, Väino Linde!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U40	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I understand the necessity and content of this bill. But have you thought about how to make sure that this bill doesn't, figuratively speaking, throw out babies with washing water? How can public communication be carried out outside the campaign period when it is considered to be advertising? In the case of Tallinn, it is quite understandable why all of this is so planned in the draft, but how can we ensure that in a remote rural municipality, the issue of a website continues, where municipal officials comment on adopted legislation, plans, etc.? Have you thought about that in preparation for the draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U41	Thank you. We have thought and considered all these aspects. Well, that's one reason why I'm no longer here with an amendment to the Local Government Election Act, but with an amendment to the Political Party Act and the Advertising Act. But your question also raises the exact same problem. The law can't put all the sneaking holes in it, but some of them still remain on the ethics and consciences of both the subscriber and the publisher. I hope that this draft will help to shift the sense of ethics and values a little into the right direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U42	Thank you. Please, Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U43	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! In the Commission, we spoke briefly about this too, then you did not have an answer, perhaps you have a little more information today. The question is about the role of the Political Financing Supervisory Commission and its role in this law. We all acknowledge that it is quite difficult to regulate this issue with this law. And in this draft law, the Financial Supervision Commission of the Parties is obliged to develop a guide on how it is measured. At the same time, they are also given a fairly wide margin of discretion, which certainly means a lot of disputes, including litigation. Have you had the opportunity to consult with the Political Financing Monitoring Committee itself on such an important task? How do they see and appreciate this situation? Are they capable of doing so, and do they want to do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U44	Thank you. I have not spoken to the Political Financing Monitoring Commission. However, this is a draft that has not become anything yet in principle, so perhaps it would be a little hasty to start talking to them. In the same working group that has worked on this draft, there are a large number of people who are also thoroughly familiar with the work of the monitoring committee and its specifics. The explanatory memorandum to the draft law also states that we foresee certain costs for the state, in particular when drawing up the guide. In fact, we expect and recommend, in fact, that the Commission for the Monitoring of the Financing of Political Parties should draw up a code of conduct involving experts and it will also cost something. But I assume, in itself, that the Commission will have no objection if their status is increased through this draft and they will have more real power.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U45	Thank you. Please, Andrus Ansip!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U46	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! A good colleague, Helir-Valdor Seeder, touched on the subject of Tallinn Television and the question was how this draft law would regulate the interviews given there. My assessment is this: if there is no point in doing something, then there is no point in doing it well. There is no point in giving an interview to an empty room because there are no viewers on this television. But my question is more general. I have understood that the draft law deals with advertising issues, not with media freedom. Am I getting this right?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U47	Good questioner! You've got it perfectly right. Nobody's gonna get caught up in media freedom. My personal position is, unfortunately, there is no law on this, there is only political will and the possibility that, if there were a different power in Tallinn or even a coalition in power, the same Tallinn Television would be closed in its current form and would not allow it to be paralyzed at the expense of Tallinn's taxpayers. But Estonia is also very high on all kinds of world rankings in terms of freedom of the press. So the state will certainly not intervene in this or prohibit local authorities from having any media channel. At the same time, the local authority could decide whether their residents really need it and whether it is really the best place to put money. I recall that Tallinn TV pays Tallinn taxpayers about three or four million euros a year. This is about the same amount of money as the city of Tallinn spent last year repairing roads.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U48	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U49	Thank you. I would like to comment on my answer to the previous question. No one is questioning the work of the Riigikogu, but my idea was that ministers should not make empty statements before the elections. But I am asking you directly whether the country should ban the funds allocated to NGOs in the year of the elections. You certainly remember very well what amounts were received in the state budget before the last reading, purely through non-profit institutions, for the purpose of revitalising local policies.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U50	Since this bill is absolutely not about this issue, I am not quite able to answer what I find or do not find. I think we are talking about the money that the Riigikogu allocates to local governments and their NGOs. This has been done on a regular basis for years and is done by all political parties. Both coalition and opposition parties can do this. It is not just a question of one faction taking the money and advertising it on account of it. It is aimed at supporting specific local activities.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U51	Thank you. Please, Barbi Pilvre!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U52	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, We all know that there are problems with municipal media in Tallinn, that the local district pages, not to mention Tallinn Television, are meant to exhibit the Centre Party. But how does this bill relate to what is happening in small municipalities everywhere else in Estonia? After all, the parish pages are also under the control of the municipality government. In some places, the opposition doesn't get a word at all. I will take the example of Vormsi rural municipality, where there are clearly problems with municipal media at local level. How can we view such situations?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U53	I have a negative view of that. But it is the same question that we cannot begin to decide at national level that we will close one page or another. A little of this bill may help broaden the horizons of people, including the publishers of these papers, but in some ways it remains a question of conscience, and voters decide how they judge it. But I say that, to some extent, the Committee on the Monitoring of Financing of Political Parties can also assess, if a statement is made, the value of the media campaign that one or the other candidate has made. So let him bill this candidate, let him pay for it. In case he does it for his money, good luck, everything's fine. But if he's using public money, local government or state budget money, it's not okay.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U54	Thank you. Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U55	Thank you. First of all, I have a brief comment on your response to Mr Tammele, where you said that, if it were to be absurd, the government could only take unpopular decisions before the elections. In fact, when reading this bill, it becomes clear that the government cannot take unpopular decisions because it is forbidden to communicate with a person who creates a negative image. So it's not possible to do that, so the government couldn't make any decisions at all. But my question is still whether you think it is possible to make an ad in the form of an interview or whether it is not possible to make an ad in the form of an interview.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U56	Certainly, a good Helir-Valdor Seeder, it is possible to make advertising in any form. Indeed, just before the elections, you can give someone a plot of land within the borders of the local government and hope that it will raise the debate. Like I said, we can't keep all the holes in the law, and we can't shove away. This is demonstrated by any legislation, and this is demonstrated by the fact that crime exists. I hope that this bill, however, will take a small step towards improving our political culture, the chances of our candidates being equalised, no one being favored, and no one being able to take doping at the expense of public funds.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U57	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U58	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Your frustration for a very poor result in Tallinn is understandable. But now, if you come back to the bill, what's your bill really about? You're jumping on the subject. Is this law still going to regulate media freedom, even though you have just said that you are not going to do so? For example, when talking about the content of local newspapers, how many times can there be an elder who opens a kindergarten? Could he be on the front page or on the inside of the page? How many times can he exhibit it to kindergarten? Or are we still talking about the ads we ordered and the volumes we ordered? What exactly is your bill about?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U59	Thank you, Mailis! My answers are as bouncing as the questions from this hall. But basically, the bill applies to the ad ordered and paid. We're talking party law, we're talking advertising law. The Political Financing Supervisory Commission is empowered and obliged to write a ready guide on how political advertising should and could be done in Estonia. Once the guide is ready, we can discuss more about whether it is possible to put a price cap on the local government's publication, where it clearly exhibits only itself. It all depends on whether a direct link can be established between taxpayers' money, the cost of issuing a page and the value of this campaign. I don't know how to answer that right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U60	Thank you. Please, Siim Kisler!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U61	Thank you. Good waitress! I very much agree with you that it is difficult to distinguish between informing local government activities and specific political advertising. At the same time, we have many cases in Estonia where one municipality's money is used to advertise in the territory of another municipality and to advertise politicians. Moreover, it also happens that the Tallinn newspaper is distributed free of charge in other cities and that politicians who apply in other cities are advertised there. It's not for information, it's for advertising. Do you think it would be possible to supplement this bill in such a way that cases of this kind are prohibited?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U62	Thank you. That's a good question. I would add that when you think of the newspapers Capital and Stolitsa, they are distributed free of charge not only in other cities, but all over Estonia. You can find this page soaking in the rain, for example, from Võru Maxima. It seems that readers' interest in this page is minimal, but that's what it is. Basically, I agree with you that the bill can certainly be made better than it is now. I would like to call on everyone, including the IRL, to make amendments between the first reading and the second reading, to think about this. So let's make a law together, from which we believe it can really perform its functions. Unfortunately, I'm pretty sure that if we do the best we can, we'll end up with a law we can bypass. At the same time, however, I hope that we will take away some of the possibilities of sneaking away with this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U63	Thank you. Please, Peep Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U64	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Despite everything, even in spite of the bill you have submitted, I ask if you believe that the voter will make a wise and correct decision at the ballot box.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U65	Thank you. I think, in most cases, the voter will make the right decision. However, it cannot be ruled out that the electorate is affected. As long as the influence has been fair, i.e. it has been done with its own resources and through the campaign, I have no objection if the voter does not choose me. I think he's making the wrong choice, but he's made his choice honestly and ethically. I am upset, however, if the voter is misled and influenced by prohibited means, in this case also by public funds. This, in my opinion, is wrong and comparable to the use of doping in sport. So I think we should be able to put a stop to that. Unfortunately, some take doping and thereby ruin the reputation of sport. There is also one party in Estonian politics who does so in principle and systematically. That's why we're trying to make drafts and laws that hold them back somehow.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U66	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U67	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Surely you would also be much more credible to those who are watching this discussion outside the Chamber if you would admit that this is not a problem for one party. It is certainly not possible to talk about any local government that you would say that this is now a good example of political culture, where the newspaper of the parish government equally reflects the opposition and coalition; where there is a clear desire to show the political debate exactly as it is; where no rural government abuses its resources; where no ministry has given money to anyone as it wishes; where there are no political roofs, etc. This debate would be much more credible. My question, good waitress, is this: if we have been debating the regulation of advertising volumes for ten years so far and this has not been done, why do you think that one Commission can do this?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U68	Thank you, good Mailis! In response to your claim that this is a common problem and not a one-party problem, I say that the question is proportional. In my opinion, even before the previous local elections, the Political Financing Monitoring Commission, or they were good electoral guards, carried out an analysis of what kind of advertising has been done in local governments. It was examined who had sinned, who had not. There were indeed few examples of other parties, such more or less bordering, whether or not, and then, of course, one distinct local government and one particular party. This is the city of Tallinn and the Central Party that governs it, which accounted for 99.9% of the use of public money in the entire Estonian campaign. It is therefore not a problem that is equally distributed among political parties. But as for the other side of your question, I've forgotten about that. So if you asked me again, I could answer. What was the question?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U69	Two questions have been answered, we are not starting a discussion right now. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U70	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Since Mailis has already made an introduction, I will continue on this subject. Some things you're wrong about. In fact, a lot of people are watching Tallinn Television, for example in Southeast Estonia. And if you're saying that Maxima's soaked capital leaves are lying in front of her, and no one reads them, I'm saying they do. People are poor, and they take everything they can read. Sometimes it's quite interesting. It's good to know. But Tallinn Tallinn, all over Estonia, there are many small municipalities, where there are also pro rata large ads, so-called hidden ads before the elections. The worst thing I think is that rural governments and state institutions are also making such hidden ads. How do you think this bill is gonna fight them?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U71	Thank you. First of all, in your case, I will try to remember both the statement and the question. As a result of this statement that Tallinn's Television is viewed elsewhere and that the Capital is also read diligently elsewhere, I say that research has been carried out on the visibility of Tallinn's Television, and according to it the viewing is about 0.5%, so it is quite marginal. But I'm sure some people are watching it. As for the capital paper, I didn't make it up myself. When I applied in the area, I even took pictures of these flooded piles of leaves lying around and finally watered them. No one took much interest in them. The question isn't whether anyone reads them or not. The question is why the tax payer in Tallinn should pay for the printing and distribution of this kind of crap throughout Estonia. Once again, why would a Tallinn taxpayer pay for this? With regard to whether the draft will also deal with rural governments and do not know what matters of public authorities, of course. This draft is a very precise one, which is a public instrument within the meaning of party law, which must not be used for advertising purposes. So if some country government had the idea of using money to campaign for its candidate or party, this bill certainly applies to this too.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U72	Thank you. Please, Ken-Marti Vaher!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U73	Thank you very much. Good waitress! I see that you have already submitted this draft on 25 September 2013, already in autumn last year. It's the end of May. Unfortunately, in the run-up to the European Parliament elections, the same practice has continued, which is why you submitted this draft. Tallinn's city power, however, has launched the same, perhaps even a more brutal, campaign in which taxpayers' money is once again used. What, then, has happened in the intervening period that all of this has stretched so much? To be honest, I was hoping that the first reading would be earlier, but it's a good thing it's still going on. Can you explain in a few words why these months have gone by like this? We could have adopted and implemented this law before the European Parliament's electoral campaign.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U74	Thank you, good questioner! It was my hope, too, when I made this bill. I honestly admit that I made this draft as if in an affective state, as local government elections were under way. And I would say that what happened in Tallinn was completely insane if not to use legal terms. But after I'd filed the first bill as usual, how many heads there are, as soon as it got out of my head on paper, there were countercontroversies. These were very argumentative views which showed the weak points of this draft. That's why I set up a working group that had, by the way, been invited by the representatives of the IRL. I can't remember exactly who else was there, Mart Nutt was definitely there and someone else. We met quite a few times, and this bill, which is in front of you now, is actually the fourth version. After the first one, we had two other options. This is the fourth and I believe that this could work now. I also do not rule out what we have been discussing with your party partner, Urmas Reinsalu, after my presence in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, that perhaps it would be worth going back to the first draft option and taking over some points. These could be introduced in the course of the amendments in order to set a stricter time limit and give some definition. Then we must think well about not hindering the day-to-day work of local governments. However, our aim is to limit the stealing of public money for the benefit of the party.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U75	Thank you. Please, Barbi Pilvre, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U76	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I can still see the problem here that the delimitation of what is advertising and what is the content of the media is problematic. Especially in the case of small parish newspapers, where before the elections, the expression of the rural municipality's activities in sunny colours is essentially like advertising. But at the same time, it cannot be said that, for example, opening a sandbox or installing a poetry flower box and taking pictures of a parish elder is somehow a forgery of reality. In the light of this draft law, how are hidden advertising cases that skilled communication people are able to do very professionally? When advertising is distinguished as advertising and, for example, somewhere in the newspaper, everything is clear.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U77	Thank you. I totally agree that this is very complicated. That is why I said before that it is very difficult to define political advertising. But there are still two understandable principles. First, clear transgressions so that public money is used for its own good. I think it is possible to define and identify such violations. Secondly, there is also much for voters to decide, i.e. voters can show by their behaviour and choices in the elections that they do not think it is right. Such disguised advertising and self-reflection at the expense of other opponents or without taking them into account is not okay. It's obvious that there's going to be something like this and maybe a lot. I'd be very happy if they didn't. However, I believe that the feeling of hopelessness that this issue will never be completely regulated should not prevent me from presenting this bill. I still hope that, thanks to this bill, it will get better, certainly not worse.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U78	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U79	Thank you, Inara! As a questioner, you know as well as I do that I don't really know how to answer that. You can't either. It's on people's conscience. If this local government constantly opens up all sorts of things even in the inter-election period, it's like a part of the routine. But when all these things are piled up in pre-election time, voters should make their own choices and decisions. They should wonder if they like the style of government, that every four years, things suddenly start happening, but sometimes they don't do anything. There's a lot of this kind of ethically gray zone where over time, hopefully things will settle down.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U80	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much, Valdo Randpere. Mr Andres Herkel, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, would you like to give a briefing?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U81	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was also special for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, both in terms of content and complexity. It is also special that the first reading was preceded by a long procedure, even too long in law terms. As well as the changes that have finally been made on the initiative of the initiator of the honourable draft, the focus of the draft has changed greatly. Until the original intention was to amend the law on the election of local government, the law on political parties and the law on advertising will now be amended. So the text has completely changed. As rapporteur for the Commission, I consider it my duty to mediate the two debates of the Commission. Firstly, the debate on the original version of the draft, which was on 11 November 2013, the opinions received in the meantime and the Commission's questions and, finally, the extract from our 6 May session on the second draft debate in the Commission. Firstly, on 11 November, unfortunately, the honourable initiator was unable to attend the Commission's meeting. In his place, the purpose of the draft was summed up by Andrei Korobenik, who said that the aim was to prevent situations where local authorities were using taxpayers' money to make political advertising. As a representative of the Government of the Republic, Mr Kristen Kanarik, an official of the Ministry of Justice at the time, was on the Commission, who stated that the Government of the Republic supports the objective of the draft to distinguish more clearly from the normal activities of local government and advertising activities. At the same time, there are problems, such as the concept of a reputational campaign is unfettered, political advertising is difficult to define, etc. Already in the debate at the time, some members of the Riigikogu pointed out that this does not necessarily have to be a draft of a party. If these questions are to be taken up, the misuse of administrative resources should be considered more widely, as Mrs Saar pointed out. In such cases, the reputation of ministries is also very questionable, not only of local governments. Tarmo Tamm pointed to what was discussed here at the time of the questions. His idea is also to ban state budget subsidies for NGOs in the election year, as they may start supporting someone from political forces during the election campaign. The rather unanimous position of the members of the Commission was that the content of the draft should not be limited to municipal elections. It was also mentioned that the elections to the European Parliament are coming, and we are currently late by this law. It was found that opinions were needed first from the Political Financing Monitoring Committee, as well as from the local government associations, as the initial scope of the draft was the playground of the local authorities. Opinions were also received from the political groups of the Riigikogu. After that, these groups were still working together, as I understand it. The IRL Group's response was very brief and supportive. The position of the Social Democratic Party Group is perhaps somewhat more complicated in the sense that the idea was supported, but it also highlighted the shortcomings of the draft, which were mentioned above. However, there was a distinction between the Centre Party Group, whose view was that the new restrictions would create more problems and reduce the rights of local governments. The Association of Estonian Cities and the Association of Estonian Rural Governments also submitted their views. I'm not going to describe them in detail. The opinion of the Municipalities Association is relatively long and argued, and the shortcomings of the original option were also clarified. The Political Financing Supervisory Commission and the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu gave an overview of the restrictions on the electoral campaign in different countries, but their focus, in my opinion, went a little further. There was more talk about the ban on agitation and public opinion surveys, not so much about how to limit advertising. Finally, on 6 May, this draft was back on the Commission's agenda and we received information that the initiator of the draft, in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice's official Mr Kristen Kanarik, has developed a revised text, and the initiator's proposal is to bring the amended text to the first reading, which Mr Randpere then presented to us as thoroughly as today. I would also like to add some of Kristen Kanarik's opinions, particularly as regards the principle that advertising should be prohibited for someone who is not a subject of advertising. Nobody else should be able to pay for the ad. I said that the Nordic countries, in particular Denmark and Norway, are being followed by the legislation on advertising. It is one of the tools to combat corruption. I also asked how the new version would solve the problem of advertisements put forward by the Tallinn City Government before active electoral intervention, which was the original motivation for this draft. These were clearly personal ads, as there were, for example, the leaders of northern Tallinn, who were nominated for the same area in the elections. It was answered that the new text of the draft does not relate at all to an active election campaign or to a candidate. If a person wishes to stand as a candidate in elections and does advertising through the NGO, through the municipality or in any other way before the active campaign period and if the content of the advertisement is a nomination, it is an election campaign. The Commission's Code of Conduct for the Financing of Political Parties should be so comprehensive as to give the Commission a completely legal and irrefutable opportunity to define such things, to say that the duck is indeed a duck. Mr Kanarik also said that if such a rule had been in force at the time, the Political Financing Supervision Commission would have been able to intervene and say that this was a forbidden donation, in this case a donation from the city of Tallinn. Of course, the debate also raised the question of what is the opinion of the Political Financing Monitoring Committee on this whole thing. After all, they are tasked with developing a guide to clarify and clarify the use of public funds for the electoral campaign and its implementation. The draft law gives such a mandate, but if we do not know what the Political Financing Monitoring Commission thinks about it and what exactly comes out of it, we will buy like a pig in a bag. Since it was urgent to bring the draft to first reading for understandable reasons, the deadlines had already passed, we have not had a debate on this subject with the Committee on the Monitoring of Financing of Political Parties. But I think it's definitely between the first reading and the second reading. The completion of the first reading in this form was supported by consensus by the members of the Commission. It was also proposed to appoint here and as rapporteur for the Commission and to set the deadline for amendments at 10 working days, i.e. second reading, on 27 May at 5.15 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U82	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U83	Thank you. Good colleague! Was it not discussed at the committee that local government employees who want to take part in the next elections should go on holiday three months before the elections because they cannot talk about their activities for that long? It is difficult to set an exact limit between your activities and advertising. What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U84	Thank you. By the way, in some countries such restrictions apply in certain cases, but in Estonia I do not consider this to be very useful. If the Political Financing Monitoring Commission really should develop such a code, they will also have sufficient common sense to distinguish between election propaganda and election candidates in the performance of their duties.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U85	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Andres Herkel. Any requests? There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 497. First reading is complete. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft proposal. May 27th, 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U86	Thank you, dear waitress. I understand that public funds must not be used in the election campaign. Now, here's an example. A party that has long been in power in one municipality, for example in a small town in South Estonia, has taken care of a small part of the park, one detail from the city, just before the elections, and is proud to ask all citizens for a big event. There are big balloons, free soup, concerts, etc. Do you think that this is a public election ad, a hidden election ad, or is it really a purely good deed of the municipality?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U87	The next item is the first reading of the Constitutional Committee's draft law on the election of the Riigikogu and the amendment of other laws 617. For the presentation again, Mr Andres Herkel, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U88	Thank you again, Mr President. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! There may be a little less passion around this draft, but it is customary for us to discuss on a regular basis, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, with representatives of the Election Commission of the Republic, the technical bottlenecks that have arisen in the conduct of the elections. And then we will also come up with changes of a technical nature so that the elections in Estonia can take place in an even better way than they have been organised so far. This is why this draft has also been initiated in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The actual assembler of the draft text is the Riigikogu Elections Department, or Advisor Arne Koitmäe, Head of the Elections Department Priit Vinkel and Adviser Mihkel Pilving. Alo Heinsalu, President of the Election Commission of the Republic, also took part in the debate on the preparation of the draft. That's how he got to us. We are of the opinion that these amendments are indeed of such a technical nature that we can amend the Riigikogu Election Act and put these amendments into effect before the next elections in March next year. Now, briefly, an overview of what we are going to specify with the draft. Let me mention the most important points. The first point is to specify the data to be entered on the electoral card. This is just as simple a change, that only the description of the district is added, or, in the case of Tallinn, the part of the city in which the particular polling district is located. It has simply come back that since this 'election district 1' or 'election district 2' may not be sufficiently informative for the voter, it needs to be defined more precisely. The procedure for ordering an electronic voter card is such that it can be ordered via the Estonian information gate and the order will remain valid for the next elections. In this case it is not necessary to send a person a voter card on paper; he or she will receive it by electronic means. One important change concerns the candidates. In the past, two separate documents had to be completed: application form and application form. To date, we have come to the conclusion that a single application with optional fields is sufficient. So far, people have been wondering why some candidates have provided all the data, some have failed to write down something. Let's make all the fields mandatory, but let's make sure there's less of them. The problem that arose most during the debate was that if the job and occupation remain out of the field that must be completed, why is there no education? Several members of the Commission considered that education could be written down. This must certainly be discussed between the two readings whether this issue should be raised. However, I believe that candidates who want to introduce themselves will do everything they can to introduce themselves, and will fill it out. The grounds for non-registration of a candidate shall also be specified. This is also a very technical clarification, because if only one of the lists can be applied for, the regulation must be clearly defined. An important change is that when voting in a foreign country, voters' cards sent on paper are dropped altogether. Unfortunately, voting abroad has been relatively passive, but sending electoral cards on paper is costly. Perhaps in the future we should consider a little bit of how this activity could be increased. One of the most important changes is that voters in hospitals and day care institutions do not have to apply for voting. Upon their arrival at the hospital, the information will go with them and they will be able to vote in the place of residence even if the hospital is not in their place of residence. Prior to the previous Riigikogu elections, I myself encountered a case where a person was hospitalised with a small child when the pre-vote period was over. During the first days of the hospital, he had more important things to think about and do than submit the application, and on the election day he discovered that the application was not submitted and the only way to vote was somehow to go from the hospital to the polling station. He was not carrying an ID card and electronic voting tools. In fact, I think it is very progressive that we can resolve this gap with the amendment. The deadline for examining complaints is also extended from three working days to five in the Regional Election Commission and the Republic Election Commission. Those who do this work feel that it is more appropriate and that these important complaints can be examined professionally. The Government of the Republic has also issued an opinion on the draft. It highlights some technical shortcomings, as well as concerns in the explanatory memorandum. The most important problem encountered at the Commission meeting on 6 May before the first reading of the draft was as follows. Mr Kanarik, an official of the Ministry of Justice, highlighted a point that amends the referendum law and concerns information on the referendum on the voting card. There is no reference to the amendment to the fact that the question put to the referendum or the title of the draft law is also included in the voting card. In the view of the Government, it is unclear whether it should be covered by other information on voting on the electoral card. Alo Heinsalu considered that this comment and other comments could be taken into account during the period between the two readings. The main discussion of the members of the Riigikogu in the committee actually took place before the draft initiative, so I have nothing important to mention here from the Protocol of 6 May. We have a proposal to set the deadline for amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 27 May, i.e. 10 working days, and it is also a proposal to conclude the first reading. The speaker was appointed waitress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U89	Thank you very much. Please, Valeri Korb, question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U90	Thank you. Good colleague! I'll come back to this hospital issue, I'd like to find out. In the past, I was writing a statement, and the election committee is doing everything in its power to vote. Now that I no longer write a statement to the Commission and can not go to the polls myself, how can I choose and what rights I retain?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U91	Thank you. I understand that information about your stay in the hospital is moving with you, and that's where you can vote, just as there is a vote outside of residence in other cases. If I can find a more detailed description of this big pile of paper, I can explain. But I'm sure you can also vote in the hospital, given the condition of the patient. In that case, the voting box and all the necessary information will come to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U92	No further questions. Thank you, Andres Herkel. Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 617. First reading is complete. I shall set draft 617 as the deadline for the submission of amendments. May 27th, 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U93	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I would like a speech by Väino Linde, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U94	Hello again, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! This draft was initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 17 April this year and on 5 May we prepared it for the first reading. But the draft work started a long time ago. If my memory doesn't fool me and probably doesn't fool me, it was last October when the Committee on Constitutional Affairs made that point. It was clear that Riigikogu committees report their work in completely different ways. The protocols aren't drawn up on exactly one basis. There has also been the possible recording of meetings of unregulated committees. Various solutions were also offered by the Riigikogu Board, who prepared a possible draft to clarify the circumstances. The chairmen of the Riigikogu committees, who are known to form a body of elders, met together. Finally, all these original drafts arrived at the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has initiated a draft that you have on your desk today. All of us, ladies and gentlemen, are part of one committee or another, and it is probably our common interest to get to know this draft accurately and, if necessary, to make improvements and changes to its text. I will also say that there were different views in the Commission on one or the other provision, with the gap between the opposition and the coalition at all. Just one provision or another was treated differently. I will also say right away that we have a proposal to conclude the first reading of the draft today. All members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs were in favour of this on 5 May. The deadline for tabling amendments would be ten working days, i.e. 27 May at 5.15 p.m. All members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs were present on this side, too. Now let me talk a little bit about the substance of this bill. Firstly, since its shirt is closest to the body, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs proposed to replace the name 'Constitution Committee' by 'Constitution and Human Rights Committee' in the Riigikogu Act. This proposal is made because in international relations it is very often examined that yes, you have a Constitutional Committee dealing with the Constitution, but who is dealing with human rights in the Riigikogu. It would be good if it were to understand the Commission's name immediately. However, this proposal can certainly be debated. Personally, I think that maybe it would be the opening of Pandora's box, perhaps other Riigikogu committees will also start thinking about supplementing their name. But that's it. The next point we discussed was this concern. The Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu provide for the possibility of setting up special committees and committees of inquiry, which states that if the person invited fails to attend the hearing for a valid reason, it is possible to apply a financial penalty. However, the law does not say who will carry out this procedure and who will ultimately discuss it. We now say that, in such a case, the pre-trial judge is the Police and Border Guard Board and that all this misdemeanour will be resolved by the county court if necessary. The third question relates to the different positions of the various political groups, whether the sittings of the Riigikogu Committee are the working body of the Riigikogu, or whether the meetings of the Riigikogu Committee should be public or closed. This has also been discussed in the media. At the moment, our proposal is that any committee can decide for itself whether its sittings are held in camera or whether they are public. It is clear from the explanatory memorandum that at the beginning of the work of each Riigikogu, a proposal could be made immediately, but it cannot be ruled out that if a good will is done, the committee may decide to carry it out in a different manner than usual before some sittings. As I said, this is a proposal from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but other ideas may be received in the form of amendments. That is our position at the moment. We have a proposal that the Commission meeting be recorded in the minutes. What must the protocol contain? This must reflect the progress of the Commission's meeting and the evolution of the decisions and positions adopted. If any of the members of the Commission so wish, their position must be reflected in greater detail and, if required, the result of the roll-call vote must be recorded. There has been much debate as to whether the meetings of the Commission should be recorded or not. Our bill proposes that the session of the Riigikogu committee be recorded. This shall not be the case where confidential information is handled at a session, such information shall be restricted by access, state secret or external classified information. The audio recording of a closed session shall be considered to be information intended for internal use for which the access restriction shall apply for a period of five years from the date of the recording. After that, it should go to the archives where access options are available in accordance with the Archives Act. It has also been noted that all the other draft documents, drafts, supporting materials, which we use here every day, either in our office, ladies and gentlemen, or in the Commission, are intended for internal use. In our opinion, no one should have a legitimate interest in collecting and investigating them. In general, the work process in Riigikogu committees must primarily be such as to ensure that there is substantial work, not so much the possibility of displaying and performing outside. We have committees that have recorded their sessions. What do you do with those sound recordings? It states that for sound recordings made before the entry into force of this Act, access restrictions apply for five years. Unlike the usual practice, I have brought almost all the provisions of this bill to you here, but I believe that it was worth it too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U95	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. Please, Mati Raidma!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U96	Thank you. Good waitress! Promise me to open up the cover of this Pandora box a little bit. Indeed, a number of Commissions have been discussing changing their name, in my experience for the last seven years. The objection has been that it is a tradition. Today, in your explanatory statement, I read that this is not a tradition, it is a process of fossilization. Am I right to understand that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is now opening this issue before the other committees as well? At the same time, I very little regret that the question came to us through the first reading of this draft, not earlier. Let us then begin by updating the names of the committees and end the petrification that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has fixed in the explanatory memorandum.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U97	Good questioner! I guess with this bill too, happiness is in our own hands. Through the amendments, we can change its provisions in many ways. At its meeting, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed the need to change the name relatively superficially, but in its presentation I did point out that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs would be called the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Human Rights if this law entered into force. So far, we have really had the practice that the names of committees are short and clear, giving a first picture of what one or the other Riigikogu commission is dealing with. More detailed documents should be available. I know the subject of the name has been discussed. If you consider it necessary, my good colleague, that in future we will not have a National Defence Committee, but, for example, a National Defence and External Security Committee, why not, if we follow the logic of this draft. Personally, I even think that perhaps the name 'Committee on Constitutional and Human Rights' will not be enough. In the future, perhaps there could be a Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Human Rights and Public Law; then all areas of work are mentioned. However, whether this is actually reasonable from the point of view of day - to - day work is a question of its own. But we can discuss such matters. Why could the Committee on the Environment not be, for example, the Committee on the Environment and Green Thinking? So there are different ways to think about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U98	Thank you. Please, Siim Kisler!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U99	Thank you. Good waitress! I'm asking the committee about the audio recording of a closed sitting. The bill states that a member of the Riigikogu and an official of the Commission have the right of access to the sound recording for the performance of their duties. Other persons may, with the permission of either the chairman of the committee or the management board of the Riigikogu, consult the sound recording of the closed session of the committee in case of justified interest. If a journalist wishes to write an article on a particular subject, is that a legitimate interest? Is it possible for him to see a sound recording in such a case?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U100	To answer this question, the chairman of the committee concerned will decide whether or not there is a legitimate interest in a particular case. There is no other way to resolve this issue. However, we certainly cannot refuse the public to know what information is contained in the sound recording. However, public interest and public curiosity must be kept separate. With regard to the previous question, however, I would like to say to my good colleague Marko Pomerants, who responded to me in deaf-mute language, that it is difficult to make fun of politics, but I tried to do so in answer to the previous question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U101	Thank you. Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U102	Thank you. My question is a little more general or broader, going beyond the specific rules of procedure of the Riigikogu, but still related to the subject. That's right, sound recordings. Are we not going down the road of overregulation if we try to set it precisely and impose restrictions on access and try to interpret who has the right of access to them? At the same time, mass recordings have become common practice across the country in the public sector and in the exercise of public authority for the preparation of protocols. This is done in ministries, offices, conferences, various councils everywhere, and all of this, as far as I know, is unregulated. Don't you see a more general problem here? Perhaps this recording must be regulated in the country at all, or we must also leave it unregulated, as it is now?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U103	Thank you. The problems are clear when they are raised. As I said in my report, in the activities of the Riigikogu or, more specifically, the committees, it was these problems associated with sound recordings that arose. Today, we have to evaluate them through this bill. One way is to legitimise the use of sound recordings and set out what happens to them in the future. Another option is to make sound recordings as a tool for protocols, but if the Commission considers it necessary, they will then be destroyed. So we have two different options that we can discuss in the future procedure of the draft. As amendments, you can also present your ideas if you have good ideas, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U104	Thank you. Please, Marko Pomerance!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U105	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! I'm definitely one of those people who think that tradition is worth something with names. For example, the Committee on Legal Affairs could be called a Committee on Public Law and Private Law, which does not mean that this competence does not currently exist in this committee. And it makes sense that there is more human rights competence in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs than there is in the Committee on Rural Affairs. Such an approach is certainly welcome. Certainly, it is important that if there is one misdemeanor, there is someone who deals with it. As far as the minutes of the sittings are concerned, there is probably not much difference of opinion in this Chamber that they are voluminous. But your explanatory memorandum says that there will be no extra cost in the event of a change with regard to sound recordings that have a lot to talk about. Do you really think that this can be the case, thinking about the quality they have, plus this whole disclosure process or control in five years' time, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U106	We'll all get a little smarter in time. At the time of drawing up this explanatory memorandum, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs considered that there would be no additional cost. However, in the last sitting of the Commission, when we discussed the issue of sound recordings in more detail, I remember a good colleague, Rein Lang, pointing out that this continued holding of all the sound recordings still entails a certain cost, but it is certainly not significant. The main thing, in my opinion, is to decide whether or not sound recordings will be mandatory on committees and what will happen to them after the official protocol has been drawn up.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U107	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U108	Thank you. Good colleague! I want to come back to the nuance of a sound recording for further details. Such a question: who can propose that we record today's sitting? And could it be, for example, once a quarter or once a half-year, or would each session be recorded? And can only the chairman of the committee or his deputy make a proposal, or can the ordinary member of the Riigikogu do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U109	Yes, a Member of the Commission can certainly propose this at a meeting of the Commission. However, as a general rule, the chairman of the committee shall chair the sitting and such matters shall be decided by him in particular. However, in the end, it is always the will of a majority of the Commission on one or the other matter, and the majority of the Commission decides on both the agenda and other issues. I very much hope that such proposals will, however, be made relatively rarely, and then it will be decided by consensus.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U110	Thank you. Please, Mati Raidma, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U111	Thank you. Today's National Defence Committee, perhaps the future National Defence and Internal Security Commission, also raised the issue of sound recordings. Point one: why did the Commission presidents' proposal not be heard, so that recording could be the decision of the Commission rather than the determination of the law? And point two: the law does talk about access restrictions and the whole process, but what prevents me from eliminating that recording in 24 hours? Our committee is not recording. I see a need for it, perhaps for the sake of record-keeping, but not for the benefit of scouts and home researchers. Maybe if we take the decision that in 24 hours we're going to destroy the recording, can I do it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U112	This bill is today at first reading. When we prepared it for bringing it here to the Riigikogu Hall, by 5 May, the single understanding of the members of the Riigikogu committees on the issue of sound recordings had not reached us. We have now presented this draft as such, because it was supported by a majority in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. However, as I said, amendments can change the draft, and if this option is retained, it will also have the power of law. I personally also support the fact that this recording is a matter for every committee to decide not to over-regulate. But the odds are different.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U113	Thank you. Please, Rait Maruse!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U114	Thank you. Good waitress! Do you agree that the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures is a special law that regulates only the work of the Riigikogu? At the same time, we are also subject to the Public Information Act. This innovation, which is being produced and worked on here, is subject to the Public Information Act. Do you think it is appropriate and necessary to regulate the status of the recordings as well? The status of the recordings has become the subject of a case against the Riigikogu. We have the status of recordings not exactly defined in the Rules of Procedure and this should be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U115	Of course, I agree that a matter as important as the possible recording of sound in the Commission's activities must be decided by law. Does this law have to be allowed or forbidden in the future? I think that's the next step. At present, the draft text states that the sound recording is intended for internal use and that the rules concerning public documents do not apply. But I agree with what you said.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U116	Thank you. Please, Siim Kisler, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U117	Thank you. Good waitress! The explanatory memorandum states that the main purpose of the draft is to harmonise the practice of the committees of the Riigikogu with regard to the content of the minutes of committee meetings and the obligation to record committee sessions. Why is it necessary to harmonise the content of the protocols and the audio recording obligation? What's gonna happen if this bill doesn't turn into a law? I still don't get it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U118	Of course, a good questioner, the sun still rises, and it gets dark in the evening when it's not midsummer time. But the laws adopted by the Riigikogu sometimes reach the Supreme Court, for example, its Constitutional Review College. Sometimes there are disputes which the legislator, when adopting one law or another, wondered why it voted in precisely such provisions. And then the Supreme Court requires the initial material on the draft, including the minutes of the Riigikogu committees and possible verbatim reports. In practice, there have also been cases that one or another official has appeared at a meeting of the Riigikogu Committee and his views have been recorded, but after reading the minutes, the official has claimed that, for God's sake, he has not said so. This has happened twice in one of the Commissions during the current term of office, and then the sound recording has been interrogated with this official. After that, the official had no choice but to accept that yes, this time he said so, but he assured me that he thought differently. Such problems have arisen beyond what has been pointed out here by a good colleague, Rait Maruste. That is why we want to regulate all this.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U119	Thank you. Please, Andrus Ansip!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U120	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The draft you submitted concerns the development of the minutes of the committees and the recording of the committee meetings. Have you also thought about what to do to get more public attention from these audio recordings and protocols?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U121	If you just answer me, I think we're all here to get along relatively well. I remember saying one of the foreign Estonians who was interested in politics, he knows very well how political disputes are going on in Britain, that it is as interesting to follow parliamentary disputes in Estonia as watching paint dry. We could conclude from this that the political debate should be more dynamic and more effective. However, the most important thing is, of course, the content of the dispute, not its form.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U122	Thank you. Please, Peter Laurson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U123	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Could this bill also include the regulation of the recordings of the meetings of the Government of the Republic?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U124	No, as this is an amendment to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U125	Thank you. Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U126	Thank you. Honourable waitress! For a good child, several names, I'll come back to the committee's names. It has indeed been under discussion over time whether to change the names of the committees. So far, it has been based on the principle that if one or the other name has traditionally been, let it be. We do not currently have the Committee on Education, for example, and the Committee on Culture is dealing with this issue. There are a number of areas that are not included in the names. In fact, the content should be dealt with at all, and perhaps some committees should be joined together. For example, the Committee on Rural and Environmental Affairs would register as one committee in terms of the content of the work. But this is not the subject of this bill. My question is as follows. On the basis of the draft tabled, could I, as a Member of the Commission, record the sound? It is stated here in an impersonal form that the session of the Riigikogu committee will be recorded, and the requirements will be further listed. If I keep this recording, do I have the right to record it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U127	Thank you. A king of France said, "The state is me. 'I don't think you, good questioner, you're the whole commission. We are still dealing here with the record of the Commission's work and the recording of the Commission's sitting, which is organised by Commission officials, not by you. Your actions are not covered by this bill. In the same way, you can take a picture on the phone here in the Riigikogu Hall and on the Commission, which we do not regulate by law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U128	Thank you. Please, Jaanus Tamkivi!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U129	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, The way things happen to big organisations is that from time to time they become very eager to deal with themselves. I would like to ask you, as a member of the Riigikogu with long and extensive experience, whether there is anything in the work of the Riigikogu other than those topics that are reflected in this bill that need to be adjusted.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U130	Good questioner! I believe that if we take a good look around and think, there will always be something that can be made better and clearer. But the more we deal with the Riigikogu's own issues, the less time we have to deal with problems that need to be resolved in the interests of a better, large picture.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U131	Thank you. Please, Andrus Ansip, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U132	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I will continue with Helir's question again. If one of the Members of the Commission wishes to record what has been said at the meeting of the Commission and the other Members consent, is the Member of the Commission entitled to a personal record?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U133	Yes, a member of the Commission has the right to a personal record. However, we do not regard this as a document in the sense of this bill, which should ultimately lead to the completion of the protocol.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U134	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Väino Linde! Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 651. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 651 amendments. May 27th, 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U135	Our seventh item on the agenda today is the first reading of the Act amending the Law on the Home and Working Procedures of the Riigikogu, initiated by Andres Herkel, member of the Riigikogu. I would like to present a speech chair with Andres Herkel, member of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U136	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I myself started this draft law on supplementing home and working arrangements with very short content on 25 March. This was motivated by the fact that the time limit for the procedure for the first reading of one draft had obviously expired in the Commission, but it was not intended to inform the author of the draft. To clarify so much for my fellow Members that at that time I was not a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, so I myself could not directly monitor the progress of the draft. This was my bill. There have been others to see that the attitude towards procedural deadlines in the committees has become somewhat relaxed. The content of the draft is very simple: once the deadline has passed, the Riigikogu Board must intervene and appoint the draft on the agenda of the plenary assembly on its own initiative without the Commission's proposal, but this is provided that the commission has the opportunity to conduct the discussion of the draft and to take decisions relating to the first reading at its regular or extraordinary session. This topic is dealt with quite thoroughly in the executive edition of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, especially on pages 292-293, where it appears that the responsibility for meeting the procedural deadline rests entirely with the leading committee. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu is currently not empowered to place the draft itself on the plenary agenda; however, the Executive Board must, if necessary, require the commission to comply with the procedural deadline. By the way, however, there is a wide-ranging overview of what this regulation has been like throughout history in the various variants of our home and work arrangements. In 2003, the time limit for proceedings was extended from six weeks to seven weeks. All exceptions to previous regulations have been omitted, i.e. an extension of the deadline in coordination with the initiator and the different procedural deadlines that once applied to the drafts submitted by the Government of the Republic and the drafts submitted by members and political groups of the Riigikogu. In the present case, this deadline is very clear, it is seven working weeks, and the initiator of the draft does not think it should be changed. It's long enough. It is also important to know, perhaps, what followed the initiation of the draft. In fact, I was contacted by the newly elected President of the Riigikogu, Mr Nestor, who announced that on behalf of the management board he had approached the chairmen of the Riigikogu committees with a request to strictly respect the deadlines. The Board of the Riigikogu also received an overview of the cases in which this has not been done. I have this review here today. I would point out that, in the case of one of the drafts, we have just solved this problem, one of the long-standing drafts has just passed the first reading. Two drafts from 2012 which have not passed the first reading and one from 2013 have now remained in the proceedings of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. There are three such drafts in the Committee on Economic Affairs, but they are all this year and their deadline has been relatively low. I would refer here to the political members of the Riigikogu, Inara Luigas, Lembit Kaljuvee, Kalle Laanet, Deniss Borodichi and Rainer Vakra, who have apparently completely forgotten the draft law supplementing the Penal Code into the procedure of the Constitutional Committee. Previously, it was said that if amendments to party law were adopted, this bill would be withdrawn. But it has not been done and the first reading has not been passed, it would certainly have been correct to do it. It's a surprise for me today. The rest of the bill, which is overdue, I was familiar with it before. In order to prevent such problems and to protect the rights of a certain minority in the Riigikogu, it is probably reasonable for the Bureau to send such drafts on the agenda of this House. Then there is a very simple choice before us: whether the draft passes through first reading and remains in the process or not. There is obviously no point in dragging ahead of the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U137	Thank you. Please, Andrus Ansip!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U138	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Of the cases listed by you, where the Commission has not been able to bring the draft to the big hall within seven weeks, I can conclude that these are still rare, exceptional cases. Shouldn't your bill be treated as a rule of one exception?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U139	First of all, I would say that when it comes to six draft laws pending before the Riigikogu, and a few months ago there were even more, this is not quite exceptional. There's a lot of these drafts. I admit that they can be treated differently. In some cases, a small delay is due to the so-called force majesty, whether a waitress can't be present or something like that, but somehow it has been agreed with the drafter. I think that this is going to be bad if the postponement is not coordinated with the author of the draft, and in cases where we really see a delay that dates back to the years. It's not correct. Are these exceptions? I hope so, but there should be no such exceptions in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U140	Thank you. Please, Andrus Ansip, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U141	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! The number of your bill is 629 and you mentioned six drafts for which the deadline of seven weeks has not been respected. I do not know what is behind these drafts, but I am quite convinced that there is a particular reason why he has not reached the big hall in seven weeks. The last draft belonging to this group did not reach the large hall within seven weeks because of the change of coalition. Six out of 629 are these exceptions, or are they already such a weighty set that the rules need to be changed?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U142	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject draft 629 at first reading. We have to vote on this. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft proposal of the commission 629 to be rejected at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 38 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 20 against and 2 abstentions. The proposal of the lead committee was supported, the draft has been rejected at first reading. Ladies and gentlemen, our sitting today is closed. I wish everyone a nice day. See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 12.21 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U143	First of all, these 629 include a number of drafts that have been adopted a long time ago and which may have been among those who have exceeded the time limit. So it's not right to take six out of 629. I can't quite tell you exactly how many drafts there are in the Riigikogu proceedings right now. This 629 is the total number, both adopted and rejected. My bill number is really 629 and it fits in seven weeks. Looking back from here, which no longer fits in there, the next one is 618, 613 and 591. These are all drafts this year, and I believe that the Committee on Economic Affairs and the political groups, such as the Social Democratic Party Group, which has moved from opposition to coalition, have convincing reasons for delaying them. But you can't stall forever. Sometime you have to decide whether to withdraw the bill or send it to the hall. Why is the first reading on the list of non-executed persons with the number 239 of the draft law supplementing the Penal Code, initiated by five independent members of the Riigikogu in May 2012, two years ago, draft 342 initiated by the Central Party Group and draft 541, initiated by Mr Maruse, is not quite understandable.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U144	Thank you. Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U145	Thank you. I basically support the approach of this bill, but I do have one question. Is it not reasonable to stick to greater flexibility and to allow that the time limit can still be exceeded in agreement with the originator? In some cases, it might be wise. It would be very unreasonable for the legislator itself to accept these exceptions so that we simply, by agreement, leave the draft to stand and thus break the law. Why don't you leave a flexible option in the law? Today, if I understood correctly, Valdo Randpere, in writing his bill, said that seven weeks were exceeded, but this was done in agreement with the initiator. So he was aware of it. Such real needs can arise in life.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U146	I pointed out that seven weeks is a long enough deadline without this flexibility. But in previous regulations, I think it's been an opportunity once. This is an issue that can be raised between the first reading and the second reading by tabling amendments. In this case, my proposal would be to set six weeks as the main deadline and, in agreement with the initiator, to give either one or two additional weeks, rather than add them to seven more. It'll take too long. Basically, I don't mind going this way.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U147	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Andres Herkel! I would like to speak with Väino Linde, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U148	Honourable Riigikogu! Honourable President! Good colleagues! The Committee on Constitutional Affairs understood the concerns of the initiator of the draft, but whether the option he proposed was a sensible solution, the majority of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs quite seriously doubted that. And he did so on 5 May at his meeting, where the initiator of the draft and the members of the committee exchanged views on the content of the draft. Today, on behalf of the Commission, I propose that you reject the draft. Of the 8 members of the Commission, 5 were in favour and 3 opposed. What were the reasons? The initiator of the draft act also presented his views here today to all of us. To comment on them, I would first of all like to say that the draft can be sent to the first reading once it is prepared for the first reading. The subject must be discussed in substance in the Commission. The drafts are very different in size and content, and some drafts can also be dealt with by the Commission in a way that it prepares for its first reading at quite a number of meetings of the Commission, and for good reason. Only then will it be possible to discuss the draft at first reading in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. If there is now a law that the governing board of the Riigikogu can, at its discretion, quickly direct a draft to the Chamber of the Riigikogu, leaving the committee only time for an immediate or extraordinary sitting, then we will certainly not achieve any proper quality regarding the content of the drafts, regardless of who has submitted the draft either a coalition, an opposition or a highly respected member of the Riigikogu alone. A nuance should also be taken into account that if there is no consensus on the board, the issue will be discussed in the plenary session of the Riigikogu. This means, however, that the other members of the Riigikogu, who do not belong to one committee or another, would have the right to vote at first reading on a draft 'foreign commission', which they may not feel well in essence. Nor do they know the specifics of the work of the commission. We could not support this bill for these reasons. As has already been said here, this departure from the seven-week rule is indeed an extreme exception to the current composition of the Riigikogu. I dare say that it used to be somewhat more, but then other instruments were used, which have been very effective. The public raising of the question, which was also done by the initiator of today's draft in the Estonian media, was very effective. He achieved that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs quickly began to process his draft. So there are opportunities like this right now. The Riigikogu Board can also be asked why one or the other commission has not been able to send the draft to the first reading in seven weeks. You can also contact the management of the lead commission directly. Such opportunities exist and, on the basis of my experience, I can say that they work very well, without suffering from discussing the substance of the draft law. These were briefly the reasons why, as I said, the Commission decided not to support this draft and to propose that you reject it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U149	Thank you. Please, Siim Kisler, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U150	Thank you. Good waitress, let's be a little more sincere. Do you really believe that these drafts, which were read by the initiator and which have exceeded the limit of seven working weeks, have not reached the first reading because their quality is being refined? You don't believe that either. What are the real reasons, and what are the drafts that cannot be discussed in the Commission within seven working weeks? In addition, I would point out that if the initiator does not agree to introduce changes, nor can the Commission do so before the first reading. It's still about bringing the bill to this hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U151	Good questioner, don't be so narrow-minded! Let us remember that we do not only make the law one, two, three, four, or I do not know for the further processing of a number of already pending drafts. If we turn today's draft into a law, it will come into effect, and it will be regulated by all future drafts, which are certainly of different content and quality, but all of which must be prepared for the first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U152	Thank you. Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U153	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Mr Linde is the previous chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and I can appreciate the frankness with which he acknowledges that this has unfortunately occurred before. At the same time, I apologise, but it seems to me that the decision of the Reform Party to reject this draft is rather linked to the Commission's current and former President's uniform. I will now ask whether it is also known to you that it is possible to interrupt the draft at second reading. This offers the Commission a great deal of opportunity to deal with the draft at length and in depth.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U154	Thank you. I don't think this has anything to do with anyone or something uniform, much less protecting it. What's been has been, and what's coming, it's coming. However, the position you have now outlined has not been addressed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs when discussing this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U155	Thank you. Please, Siim Kisler, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U156	Thank you. I'm still gonna ask you that. If the initiator does not agree to make any changes before the first reading, what can the Commission say within seven weeks and beyond, the Commission would be able to extend this period even further?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-13_U157	A good young member of the Riigikogu! I guess it's right for me to talk to you about this after you've been in the Riigikogu a little longer. Live and look, you will see what is done in the Commission.
