ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-10_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the Monday session of the eighth working week of the VIIIth plenary session. First, you can deliver drafts and inquiries. Heili Tõnisson as representative of the Government of the Republic, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-10_U2	Mr. Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching three draft laws today. First, the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and other laws. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Andres Anvelt, Minister of Justice, when dealing with the bill. Secondly, the draft law amending the General Part of the Environmental Code Act and, in this connection, the amendment of other laws. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of the Environment in the proceedings of the draft law. And thirdly, the draft law on defense. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Defence Sven Mikser in the proceedings of the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-10_U3	Margus Tsahkna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-10_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! According to the census, one in four Estonian children lives with a single parent and a large part of these children have limited economic opportunities, as a separate parent does not fulfil the maintenance obligation imposed on it. Over the years, the number of people who avoid paying a living allowance has increased. The courts make more than 1,000 decisions each year on the maintenance, a large part of which goes to bailiffs because the parents do not pay for the maintenance. A large number of maintenance claims cannot be recovered by bailiffs. At the beginning of this year, there were more than 12,000 maintenance claims in enforcement proceedings, with a total debt of more than EUR 10 million. And that's the money these kids are actually missing. That is why the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union is launching an initiative today and will submit a draft decision of the Riigikogu to the Government of the Republic proposing to the Government of the Republic to develop and implement a system of guaranteeing maintenance payments by 1 January 2016, which would ensure that child maintenance payments are received on time. Under the proposal, a public maintenance fund would be set up to pay the minimum maintenance allowance that the parent raising the child has been granted on time and to recover it from the parent who is obliged to pay the child. A similar initiative has been taken by the Social Democratic Party Group, but at the beginning of this year, although it had been sent to this Chamber for discussion, they withdrew their draft. The IRL Group has also proposed amendments to the draft State Budget Act for the following year to provide money for the Government of the Republic for the drafting and implementation of the relevant draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-10_U5	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-10_U6	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu! The incorporation of the Estonian Defence Forces into party politics and the use of the Estonian Defence Forces in the electoral campaign must be excluded. According to today's Estonian Päevaleht, the politician of the Reform Party Ants Laaneots at the political meeting of the Reform Party has appointed the Chief of the Defence Forces as the political puppet of Major General Riho Terrast IRL and has claimed that the current national defence development plan is stupid. This is a rather unprecedented statement in Estonia's political culture as well as from the point of view of European democratic civil control. After all, especially in the current security situation, we need to look for a common element that unites us, especially in implementing the long-term objectives of defence. This is the moment in which the Prime Minister in office must state clearly, firstly, what his assessment of the accusations aimed at pulling the Defence Forces and its leader into the party-political electoral battle and, secondly, what he thinks of the assessment that the military part of the current national defence development plan is stupid. We must maintain this common element, which has been cross-party policy in different years and in different elections. The opposition politicians of the Riigikogu are asking the Prime Minister a question where we want clear answers. I express my support for the unambiguous and clear distancing of the Minister of Defence in office from these political statements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-10_U7	I have adopted four drafts and one inquiry, and the Bureau acts with them in accordance with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Now, please, let's do a sit-in check! There are 86 members of the Riigikogu, no 15. Next, clarification and approval of the agenda. Honourable Riigikogu! On 7 October, an inquiry was submitted concerning an agreement on the location of embassies, which became number 436 but was withdrawn by the performers. So this question falls off the agenda of the week. Kaia Iva, is there a problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-10_U8	Thank you. The Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union has a proposal to change the agenda a little. There are two such items on the Wednesday agenda, No 7 and No 8, for which a great many questions remain. One of these drafts is the Act on Social Welfare, the Act on Employment Services and Benefits and the Act on the Amendment of Other Laws 693 and the other draft Act on Employment Capacity Allowance initiated by the Government of the Republic 678. We admit that the purpose of the drafts is good and right, but they are obviously not yet ready to be dealt with in their current form. After all, this was also evident from the debate that took place last week in the big Chamber. Our proposal is to remove the seventh and eighth items from the Wednesday agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-10_U9	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-10_U10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There can be no agreement with this statement! This is a long-awaited and developed fundamental reform that should be discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-10_U11	On the basis of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, I shall vote on the agenda for the eighth working week of the 8th plenary session of the Riigikogu, specifying that no Monday's inquiry is made. Please take a stand and vote. There are 52 members of the Riigikogu in favour of approving the agenda, 35 against and no abstentions. The agenda is confirmed. With regard to the lack of an enquiry on the agenda, today we only intend to have a free microphone that can be registered after a hammer hit.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-10_U12	Let's start a free microphone round. Maimu Berg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-10_U13	Thank you very much to the President-in-Office and to the honourable leavers.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-10_U14	One moment, please, Maimu Berg! [[There's noise in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-10_U15	I will start by quoting one of the Tallinners who writes today that soon, I think, the whole of Estonia will be living in Tallinn. Yeah, but the greater the responsibility of this town. The Tallinn City Government wants to start cooking its soup in one corner of the boiler again. Instead of coming to the capital with a well-thought-out and considered alcohol policy, which would be very welcome and become an example for the whole of Estonia, just as it is the capital's duty to set an example for the whole of Estonia, all the municipalities, another populist step was taken, which was not preceded by any research or any preparation at all. Just, seeing the people supporting the amendment of the law allowing alcohol consumption in public places and now it is going to change, Tallinn City Government's central party gray brain cells started working, finding that the issue of alcohol is once again an opportunity to profit from populist profit and earn the people's love (read: voters' votes). Sadly, in spite of any twisting, I am reminded here by Mrs. Deputy Mayor's monologue 'Ringview', it is clear that such a head-on decision does not recommend protecting the health of tallinians and the entire Estonian people, and especially young people, as Mrs. Deputy Mayor stressed with dull persistence, insofar as it is more likely to give a hooveshop to small shops or, in most cases, a death-hop. But these shops, good friends, are far from serving drunkards, but also such a lovely and spoiled electorate for the Centre Party, the elderly, who find it difficult to get into large shopping centres. In this hall, in a short time, I have heard a variety of wailings from the Central Party for the protection of the so-called small people. But friends, you don't seem consistent in this moaning at all, because even the owners and buyers of small stores are your little people. Alcohol policy is one subtle thing at all, certainly no less subtle than the so-called 'big policy'. It has been dealt with for years, decades, you can say, even hundreds of years. No really good solution has been found so far; all prohibitions and restrictions in contact with reality have, in most cases, suffered severe setbacks. In my long career, I myself have led several international seminars, conferences and debates on alcoholism and restrictions, particularly in Finland and Estonia. While the performers have had appalling and increasingly scary examples of what alcohol does to humans, very few ideas have been suggested about how to improve things. At the same time, I believe that much more could be done in our anti-drinking movement than has been done so far. I hope that Tallinn will continue to support the abstinence movement, for example, by organising design contests to reduce drinking and drug addiction more effectively throughout Estonia. Research on this, as I said, has been done quite a lot. There is an opportunity to learn from the mistakes of others and not to do theirs. As far as young people are concerned, let us give greater support to their circles of interest, sports circles, theatrical visits. It is possible to improve the treatment of those addicted to alcohol and other substances. And if Tallinn cares and helps so badly, this treatment could be much more accessible to the Tallinn people than it is now and why not to all the people living in Estonia who have this problem. It would have been expected that a round table of experts would be convened before making such important decisions, and there would not have been much to invite representatives of merchants. It's a shame when little shops disappear because of it. But they disappear unless the city authorities plan to support these groceries when one source of revenue, alcohol, is taken out of them. For those who have believed that Tallinn cares and cares, the belief remains that it cares, that it cares, and that it also cares about people who cannot go to large shopping centres and need small shops. The belief remains that Tallinn as the capital will serve as an example for the entire country, Estonia as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-10_U16	Cameron Maruse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-10_U17	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Colleagues! Riigikogu employees! I would like to inform you that today the Committee on Constitutional Affairs unanimously adopted the decision to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that the large flag of the Republic of Estonia be placed in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, as well as the flag of the European Union. In making this decision, the Commission took into account the constitutional parliamentary organisation of Estonia, considering the importance of the meaning and appreciation of national symbols and the common parliamentary practices in other countries. We have discussed this subject many times, but we have not been able to get anywhere. So we are still in a unique situation where there is no great flag of the country on whose behalf decisions are made. Nor is there the flag of the institution to which we have wanted to belong with the referendum decision, where we belong culturally and politically, and where an important part of our legislative decisions comes from. It is more than strange when it is explained by the understanding that the flag of the Estonian state is not suitable for the Estonian parliament or that we do not have this historical practice. The first argument is deeply incomprehensible; the second is that there are pictures of the same hall where the flag of the state is in its dignified place. I have, like most of you, colleagues, visited the Chambers of many national parliaments. These are mostly magnificent, historic buildings and rooms. Despite the historical value and meaning of these rooms, the national symbolism has been presented in a dignified form everywhere. In addition to respect for the symbols of his country, this visual image is also transmitted to the wider world through mass media. It's the only reason we don't. What are we afraid of? What's stopping us? In order to put an end to this incomprehensible situation, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs made such a proposal and hopes that the Bureau will react to the proposal by implementing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-10_U18	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-10_U19	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It is quite interesting to see social democrats struggle to have more and more small, cornered basement shops, where alcohol is sold and where minors and other young people mainly get it. You don't sell it to them in big stores. It's really interesting that they're fighting to reduce these stores. At the same time, we know that in Finland, for example, there are many times fewer shops selling alcohol than we have here. So I do think that instead of always tarring the city of Tallinn, you might be able to deal with something else and consider, for example, whether it is really right on Wednesday to bring in draft laws on the reform of the working capacity of the hall, which are more than inadequate. I'd like to talk about it. Perhaps not everyone saw this transmission of Tallinn Television here, this public discussion of a matter of national importance, where representatives of disabled people were at last also on this platform, although at first both representatives of the Reform Party and the Social Democrats voted against it. I am simply recalling the most important points in this debate. Tiia Sihver, of course, said that she couldn't get the remote on this remote control, but said, sitting in a wheelchair, that they had a last chance to intervene in this reform. They've done everything they can. Nothing's helped. They have visited the Prime Minister with a proposal to stop this reform, which is intended to be correct, but which form and level of readiness are completely crude. They've held all-Estonian meetings, they've already been to Toompea in spring with wheelchairs and crutches. They have also collected these signatures to discuss this issue here. And when really this issue began to be discussed in this Chamber, they said, after the Minister's speech, that dear delegates, do you really know that this is not really a concept for the biggest reform of the decade? They have no development plan. In a very interesting way, the explanatory memorandum states in black in white that there has been no time to develop the underlying documents, as the draft procedure is urgent. Imagine three years of all this being done, but it's still urgent, so there's no time to even make a plan! After all, the package does not consist of one or two laws, but of much more. Mr Sihver asked what this debate was all about. It is known that ministers Helmen Kütt and Urmas Kruuse as well as Heljo Pikhof as chairman of the committee have said that the laws will be passed in November. So, what are we gonna do today? Do we blow off steam again, play blindness, talk, yawn, let's allow the third sector to blow off steam and write down a little tick that there's been another high-level involvement, and then we'll go out and make laws? That's exactly what it is right now. Already on the coming Wednesday, the second reading will be done, and the third will come soon as well. Unfortunately, we are adopting faulty laws, the consequences of which will become apparent when they have entered into force, will not be known until years later. All these families are devastated. We were given an example of a rehabilitation system that was developed during the Juhan Parts government ten years ago and continues until now. Its mistakes have not been corrected. In this sense, I do not understand the IRL's game with this reform, as if they were special protectors for people with disabilities. They themselves were in the previous government that prepared this reform. Hanno Pevkur was a minister, Taavi Rõivas was a minister, and the Social Affairs Committee was chaired by an IRL representative. It is clear that neither this reform nor the goodwill agreement will work. All of this is simply intended to silence people with disabilities, but they do not agree with it. I say once again that we should not play a roller and adopt these laws here in the Riigikogu right now. We don't know what the consequences are. These laws will change the lives of many people in Estonia for decades, and they will change the lives of more than 100,000 people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-10_U20	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-10_U21	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, My subject today is the same as I've been talking about this remote control many times. I would like to talk again about waiting areas at border crossing points. I have repeatedly spoken on this issue on various committees, I have raised the issue in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, I have made inquiries. But this problem doesn't want to solve at all. The point is that the law clearly states that waiting allowances must not be taken when a vehicle passes through a waiting area without using its services. However, until today, all drivers of vehicles entering the waiting area pay a waiting period. Just recently, more has been asked me how this problem can be solved. I have also raised this issue several times recently, most recently in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, when the Minister of the Interior visited us to present his share of the state budget. We've been looking into the solution of charging the waiting allowances. I have also addressed the chancellor in writing with a proposal to bring together all those people who are competent on this subject and to decide not to have to pay the waiting fee for the owners of passenger cars. In general, the law is that leaving Estonia is free of charge for everyone, yet the situation at both the border inspection post of Koidula and Luhamaa is such that all passenger cars entering the border inspection post are sent to the border crossing just through the waiting area. All road signs indicate that it is not possible to use the national road directly without passing through the waiting area. There have, of course, been cases where a car travels directly to the national border without entering the waiting area, but the border guards send the car back just to get the waiting fee. I have repeatedly made inquiries and also sent a written question to the Chancellor of Justice, and the Chancellor of Justice has said many years ago that in order to organise the entry of vehicles at the border crossing point at Luhamaa and Koidula, § 83 (4) of the State Border Act is being violated, according to which no fee should be charged for the use of a waiting area if the vehicle is aimed at a waiting area for border crossing, but does not actually use the waiting area service for border crossings and is directed immediately to the border crossing point. Such a violation of the law is still ongoing. I was looking at the line in the waiting area before I came to this hall. It turns out that today a very small number of vehicles of categories A and B have passed the waiting area and crossed the border. At the moment, there were no vehicles living or in all order. However, even if a reservation is available, all passenger cars, including occasional cars, will have to pay this waiting fee. And waiting area charges have increased, currently the waiting area fee is EUR 5 and the booking fee is EUR 1.3. Figuratively speaking, this situation persists where it is impossible for the citizens of the Republic of Estonia to leave Estonia without paying this fee to the private sector. The Chancellor of Justice has proposed to eliminate this violation: stop charging drivers of any category of vehicles for the use of a waiting area at the border inspection post of Koidula and Luhamaa, subject to certain conditions. These conditions are that the vehicle is booked and paid for in the electronic border queue environment and that the only service is waiting area transit. It also proposes to revise all administrative contracts and, if necessary, to amend the national border law. The Social Democrats are keeping an eye on this issue, and we believe that such illegal charging must be stopped as a matter of urgency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-10_U22	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-10_U23	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, On Friday, 7 November, the conference hall of the Riigikogu held a representative Energy Forum 'Estonia's new energy policy'. A lot was said about the future of Estonian energy and, in this context, oil shale. Of course, the situation did not pass either now and in the near future. The topic for the intriguing discussion was the topic of whether an energy policy improving Estonia's competitiveness and people's quality of life is possible. In this regard, I will look at the circumstances that came out of the conference reports. Before the transition to the open electricity market, i.e. before 2013, the price of electricity was spooked by a sharp rise and all kinds of ghosts were drawn on the wall, one scarier than the other. In fact, there was no significant increase in prices. There are whole periods where the free market price of electricity has been considerably lower than the fixed price of Eesti Energia. There are, of course, examples to the contrary. Now, go on. Our government probably thought that because people are prepared for a great price increase and, if you could say so, used to price increases, it should be exploited. Thus, excise duty was immediately introduced, which is 4.5 times higher than that allowed in the European Union. Since 2009, transmission network charges have been raised by 42%, currently one of the highest in the European Union (EU) of EUR 10.8 per megawatt-hour. By comparison, it is EUR 7 in Finland, EUR 2 in Sweden and as much as EUR 1 per megawatt-hour in Germany. Of course, this was accompanied by grave reasons. The Soviet core network has been demolished; connections with Finland EstLink 1 and EstLink 2 need to be built, in case of unexpected interruptions, a reserve station must be built. It is now open for Kiisa and EstLink 1 and EstLink 2. Retoire also made promises that when big investments were made, the fees would decrease. We all tended to believe that, real things, if necessary, must be done. Having now seen that the 2015 draft state budget provides for the withdrawal of 20 million euros of dividends from Elering, it is clear that a large part of rhetoric was wrong. At least the talk of network charges being reduced after major investments. It appears that this much is no longer needed for investment, and now we have a pump of budget holes from all the network charges we pay. When we look at our electricity bill, we see that network charges significantly exceed the price of electricity, with excise duties, renewable energy charges and VAT. Thus, the question raised can be answered in such a way that an energy policy that improves Estonia's competitiveness and people's quality of life is possible if the state stops robbing in broad daylight. If this does not stop, companies will continue to close their businesses in Estonia, just as Fazer did, where there was energy-intensive production. I thought the breadmaking was electric. And closing performance is likely to continue, because our energy prices are not exactly competitive due to the state's added network charges, excise duties and other charges. So, above all, it would not be necessary to cry about the price of electricity; instead, the state should think about how to change the charges that it imposes so that producers are competitive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-10_U24	Etti Kagarov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-10_U25	Good chairman of the sitting! Good listeners! The new Child Protection Act aims to guarantee the rights and well-being of children. To this end, the draft Child Protection Act states that the natural growth environment for the development and growth of a child is a family and that the primary responsibility for ensuring the rights and well-being of the child lies with the parent or other person raising the child. The state and local government must support the parent in this. The field of child protection has responded actively to society. Children must be a priority in society, not only on Child Welfare Day, but every day and every decision. The current Estonian Child Protection Act dates from 1993. Much has changed since then in Estonia, for example, in 1995 the family law came into force. There have also been many reproaches in this Chamber of the Riigikogu that there are many children living in poverty in Estonia, and that is true. However, the Child Protection Act is not a magic wand that eliminates poverty with one stroke. However, child poverty needs to be addressed and child support will increase from €19 to €45 from January 2015. The growth in child support will also not eradicate poverty, but will provide relief for many families. I do not agree with the argument that the distribution of child support money is the sowing of money from an airplane. This is a great help for many families, including families where both parents work but have to cope with the minimum wage. We have a new word that has gone into circulation, which is inherently controversial, and that word is 'poverty on wages'. However, the following measures are already needed here so that people can manage their wages and also get out of the minimum wage. In addition, KredEx measures have been launched to improve living conditions for families with many children, using which a large number of local authorities have given large families the opportunity to improve their living conditions and apply for support. Many letters express fear that children will now be separated from the family. No, I'm not! There is no basis for this fear. Upon the entry into force of the Child Protection Act, the protection of family and private life will increase, not decrease. The draft imposes obligations on the state, as well as on the local government, to support parents and other persons raising children. Contrary to some people's fear, statistics show that separating children from the family in Estonia is increasingly rare. Article 12 of the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights states that no one's family and private life should be involved arbitrarily. According to Article 8 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, every child has the right to maintain his or her family relationship and must not be involved illegally. These rights are guaranteed in the Estonian legal area and the Child Welfare Act does not make any changes here. The natural environment for child development and growth is family. In 2013, 5556 children were born from the registered marriage, 7975 children were born outside the marriage. Children also grow in substitute homes, care families, custody families, etc. The Child Welfare Act does not just have to protect children who live with their mother and father. All children are valuable to society and all their rights need protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-10_U26	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-10_U27	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Estonian farmer has been hit one after another this year. In August, the Russian Federation introduced a ban on imports of our food products. This decision was made because of the political game, which resulted in a strong blow to the Estonian dairy sector. The price of milk has now fallen to such a low level that farms barely make ends meet. I believe that none of us would like to see a situation more than ten years ago where farmers were forced to carry nearly 30,000 dairy cows to a slaughterhouse because of the so-called Russian crisis. This year, by the end of August, it was clear that Estonian agriculture was in crisis, yet in no way led to action by the garment government, nor was it able to provide additional support, as Latvia and Lithuania did. The Estonian Government does the opposite and raise taxes on farmers. According to the draft law on state fees currently pending in Parliament, state fees in the field of organic farming will increase one to two times, in the field of seed certification three to eight times and in the field of plant variety rights nearly three times. This shows very clearly the reckless and condescending attitude of the government to the state of Estonian agriculture. At the beginning of autumn, the fact that a highly contagious viral disease has reached Estonia, an African swine fever, was officially confirmed. Many pig farmers describe their sad situation as a constant living on the coals. Businesses and farmers, with their own costs and letters, are doing all possible preventive work to prevent the swine plague from reaching their pigs. Hunters also wonder how to limit the spread of the plague among wild boars. Unfortunately, the government is increasingly giving the impression that they should be in the role of spectator. By the way, in the mid-20th century there was a similar plague in Spain and Portugal, and it took 20 years for it to disappear. I believe that we do not want a similar fate for Estonia. The drafting of the state budget is, as we know, a matter of priorities. The state budget reflects exactly what the coalition considers important. The current government has left Estonian farmers in the state budget for next year without additional support. Since the Centre Party stands firm for farmers in Estonia, we have proposed to add 23 million euros to the state budget line that our farmers desperately need. Estonian agriculture is in crisis, but instead of coming to the aid of farmers and paying them additional payments, as Latvia and Lithuania do, the Clothing Government wants to tax farmers even more seriously. Think about it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-10_U28	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-10_U29	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd talk about alcohol policy and start from the very beginning. In February 2011, just before the previous elections, an important decision was taken in the Riigikogu: a law of order was established. This law abolished the absolute ban on alcohol consumption in public places. By the way, I would point out that at that time the Social Democratic Party was the only party from which the draft was not voted in favour. The authorisation of alcohol consumption in public places came into force on 1 July 2014 and, as we know, it has caused people a lot of resentment. It is now good to talk about the fact that on the coming Wednesday, the Riigikogu will have a draft law amending the Law Enforcement Act initiated by the Government of the Republic at first reading. Its aim is to re-establish a ban on alcohol consumption in public places. Obviously, the change that came into force in July was too steep, too liberal. It turned out that some of the people were rushing to use public space as their drinking place, a city street, a parking lot, or a park. The draft initiated by the Government of the Republic aims to restore the general ban on drinking in public places. However, the draft also respects the right of local authorities to decide for themselves and allows local authorities to determine the places where alcohol consumption might be permitted. At the same time, the draft provides that such authorisation may not be granted if it is close to the premises of the child institution. By banning alcohol consumption in public, we hope to make our public space safer. However, it is important to respect the right of municipalities, towns and municipalities, to either tighten the arrangements or to alleviate them in some respects. Finally, local people know best how to behave on the ground. However, some principles must apply uniformly across the country, and one such principle is the ban on drinking in public places. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-10_U30	There's no more calls. The sitting is adjourned. I'll see you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 3.45 p.m.
