ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. Prime Minister! Good guests! We will begin the session of the seventh working week of the 8th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please, Thomas Tõniste!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U2	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of ten members of the Riigikogu, I have an inquiry to report to the Minister of Culture Urve Tiidu. The inquiry concerns the financing of sports federations. It is good practice in sport to play according to commonly agreed game rules. In order to ensure that the funding of sport does not remain in the hands of political attractions and is transparent, the decree of the Minister of Culture lays down a procedure for allocating resources from the state budget to the Ministry of Culture in support of sport, on the basis of which grants are paid to sports federations. Common criteria have been established for the allocation of grants, namely the number of sports enthusiasts in sports clubs, the number of coached coaches, sporting achievements in international title competitions, the presence of Olympic sports athletes in the last Olympic Games and the observance of good governance in the sports association. In this regard, we have four questions. Why did the grants allocated to sports federations in 2014 not comply with the rules laid down by the Minister of Culture's Regulation? On the basis of the 2013 results, what was the ranking for the allocation of grants for sport federations? Which sports sector received more support, and which sports sector lost and how much? What is the Ministry of Culture planning to do to ensure that the grants for 2015 correspond to the results of the sports federations in 2014 and to the rules established by the Minister of Culture Regulation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U3	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Before Mikhail Stalnukhin comes to the speaker's desk, please be a little quieter in the hall! Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U4	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, I will hand over the draft law amending § 2 of the Holidays and Holidays Act to the proceedings of the Riigikogu. With this, we propose that the list of public holidays be supplemented. Although according to Eurostat, only 16% of the population in Estonia are religious, the Ministry of the Interior, which has an overview of our churches, congregations and their members, claims that the number of believers is twice as high, or more than 400,000. Half of them are Orthodox, and you, ladies and gentlemen, are a good opportunity to show your solidarity and tolerance and also to make Orthodox Christmas a public holiday. And as it is said that not to rise twice, we propose that the list of public holidays be supplemented with the second holiday of Easter that has already been through the hall once.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U5	Thank you. On behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one draft and the Management Board decides to adopt it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. I have also accepted an inquiry. If it complies with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu shall forward it to the addressee without delay. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check! Would Marika Tuus-Laul like to ask a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U6	Thank you. I have a question about the Thursday agenda. We have an important national issue on the agenda on the reform of working capacity and the situation of people with disabilities, but this very important point does not involve television transmission. For example, today, when the Government of the Republic reports on the implementation of the European Union's policy, a transfer is made. Can you tell us why there is no transmission from a public session on Thursday, where the situation of disabled people is being discussed as a matter of national importance, just as the disabled themselves wanted, so that people can see what is happening here?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U7	We have confirmed this week's agenda as it is on your tables. It's confirmed yesterday. Your current question does not concern the procedure of today's sitting. We're going to the agenda today. Please, let's do the presence check! 87 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, 14 are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U8	We're going to the agenda today. The first item is an overview of the activities of the Government of the Republic in the implementation of European Union policy. Before we go to this item on the agenda, I will present you with the procedure for dealing with it. First, the presentation of Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas will be up to 30 minutes. The Chair of the Committee on European Union Affairs, Kalle Palling, will then give a presentation for up to 20 minutes. For information, any member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to any rapporteur. Subsequent negotiations involving representatives of the political groups will take the floor. The Riigikogu will not take a decision to close the discussion. I'm asking for a presentation from the Prime Minister of the Chair... Please, Kadri Simson, a procedural question! I thought you were already in line to ask the Prime Minister a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U9	No, I'm taking advantage of the opportunity to ask you a question. You did not answer Mr Tuus-Laul's question before, which obviously concerned the procedure for conducting this debate. I will put the question of Marika Tuus-Laul briefly and simply again. Today's debate is being broadcast in cooperation with national broadcasting, and there will be no Thursday's debate on the reform of working capacity. Whose decision is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U10	Thank you very much. I don't know what to say about television transmissions. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu does not organise television broadcasts on one or the other agenda item. The television itself either wants to come from certain things to make a transfer or doesn't want to. In any case, there has been no debate on this particular issue and there has been no pro- and counter-decision at the board level of the Riigikogu. Can we go on now? Heimar Leng also has a procedural question, I understand. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U11	I just said that the Estonian Television has not addressed the Board of the Riigikogu. The Estonian Television can make a transmission from the sitting of the Riigikogu whenever it wishes to. We haven't issued separate permits to anyone. Estonian Television can come and all other televisions can come exactly when they want to. We're going to the first report now. I would like to present the speech chair to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U12	I wanted to ask when the Estonian Television turned to you and who replied that a transfer from today's sitting could be made. Do you know that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U13	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Parliament, This year Estonia passed ten years both in the European Union and NATO. The fact that we are twice as wealthy as in 2004 alone shows that we are well-developed. We are certainly much more free and secure than we were a decade ago. As the former Head of the European Union Affairs Commission and now Prime Minister, I can assure you that the key to the success of Estonia's European policy has always been openness, accountability and accountability. Estonia is a reliable partner. Next spring, the policy document 'Estonia's European policy for 2011/2015' will end in life, and I have the honour to give you another overview. I stress that this is Estonia's European Union policy, because Estonia's views on European Union matters are the joint opinion of the government and the Riigikogu. The things of the European Union are Estonia. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! We could imagine ourselves back to 2011, the beginning of this document when both the new Riigikogu and the government started. The emergence of the euro in Estonia on 1 January 2011 significantly increased the credibility of the Estonian economy. Our accession was also a well-timed political commitment to the viability of the single currency. Shortly thereafter, some euro area Member States experienced serious difficulties, thereby also threatening the euro area as a whole. In 2010, Chancellor Angela Merkel before the Bundestag said memorable words: 'If the euro is lost, Europe will disappear. ' In 2012, the well-known finance column, Nouriel Roubini, announced that the euro would fall apart in the course of the year when Greece and Portugal left the euro area. Like many others, Roubin underestimated the strength of the reciprocal economic and political threads of the euro area countries and the willingness of the Member States and institutions to do whatever is necessary to save the euro. The situation at the time was very serious and, fortunately, we do not know whether the internal market would have survived without the euro or whether the countries would have chosen protectionism, customs and devaluation. It is therefore understandable that developments to stabilise the euro area have been the most stormy. The euro area Member States, the European Central Bank and the stability mechanisms of the euro area helped both to sustain the euro and to reform the many Member States in difficulty. Almost all legislation has now been adopted that strengthens national budgetary surveillance and is necessary to enforce the European Union's single financial supervision and banking union. In this context, I am pleased that the banks operating in Estonia passed the tolerance test for joining the Banking Union brilliantly. Although economic growth in the euro area is still recovering, we have already established a solid foundation to prevent the next crisis. I believe that the foundation of the euro area has also been strengthened by the expansion of this area. As the euro also marks the closest political and economic integration in Europe, the enlargement of the euro area has been in Estonia's strategic interest. Estonia joined the euro without any discounts, Latvia joined after us and Lithuania joins in the beginning of 2015 and hopefully a few other Central European countries will join soon. It is reasonable to hope that, with the support of the newly harmonised budgetary rules and the requirements for the use of European Union funds, all countries of the European Union will meet the Maastricht criteria by 2020 at the latest. I continue to believe that relaxing the rules agreed in the Treaty is not the solution. The call for greater fiscal flexibility does not make the deficit less dangerous. Thanks to the fact that we have kept the public finances in order in Estonia, Estonia has recovered faster than many other European countries from the crisis. A stable monetary union is the basis for the growth of prosperity in Europe, and the word of Estonia is important in these matters. Dear Riigikogu! What if Ukraine had chosen the same path as Estonia two decades ago or if Estonia had stayed where Ukraine is? In 2013 Estonia's GDP per capita in current prices was more than four times higher than in Ukraine (Estonia was 19031 dollars and Ukraine was less than 3919 dollars). According to the UN Human Development Index, Estonia and Ukraine are 33rd and 83rd respectively, 29th and 76th in the World Economic Forum Competitiveness Index. This is the result of making or not making choices, and as American President Barack Obama said in Tallinn, development is neither fast nor easy. We started with the same offers, but the message stick for democracy and reform was not passed on in Ukraine. Corruption and authoritarianism overshadowed the dream of freedom. With it, reforms, security, freedoms and prosperity were forgotten. Nearly a year ago, on the evening of November 21, Euromaidan began, which hopefully awakened the Ukrainians from the poisonous sleep of the shadows of the past. Euromaidan was launched to support Ukraine's efforts for a better future in Europe and to express it through a strong contractual relationship. The situation was somewhat unfamiliar for Europeans, because for the first time, not only was the European flag expressing its mind, but life was also at stake. It was the will of a people with a symbolic meaning. I myself visited Kiev after taking office, and I am pleased that a year after Euromaidan, the whole nation has democratically confirmed this declaration of intent many times, choosing freedom, choosing Europe, choosing reforms, rule of law and peace. This is not a one-sided act of will for deaf ears. We must support Ukraine and other countries in the neighbourhood policy. This is not just a question of Ukraine, because it is European policies and partnerships that are unheard of for the first time facing weapons. Vahur Made put this situation in Postimees on 19 October as follows: "The question is no longer merely that Europeans have a pleasant, safe and caring European Union. It is also increasingly a question of those forces in world politics that want to weaken the European Union, challenge it existentially, see that Europeans are strong, eroding and able to defend their interests and institutions. ' What do we conclude from this conflict? Firstly, keeping Europe and the rest of the Western world united is the most important thing. Only in this way will we be able to influence the rest of the world, as the European Union and the United States have proven in cooperation with Russia on sanctions. In a situation where work is obviously continuing to freeze the conflict, it is unnecessary to discuss the relaxation of sanctions. This is not a civil war, just as some districts in Donetsk and Lugansk had no democratic elections on Saturday. If the Minsk agreements are not complied with and if a new frozen conflict is created on European soil, we must consider further sanctions. Secondly, Ukraine needs to be helped both by resolving the conflict and supporting reforms, as well as by providing material assistance. War damage to infrastructure alone is estimated to be more than $8 billion. The proposal for a Marshall Plan for Ukraine published by Anders Åslund in the Financial Times of 22 October is worth considering. I have spoken with both President Poroshenko and Prime Minister Yatsenjuk about the need for reforms, including the implementation of the trade agreement and association agreement with the European Union. The leaders of Ukraine have assured me that Estonia's reform experience on its way to the European Union is of high value to Ukraine. If white vans are dragged out of the conflict area what is still valuable there, then Europe cannot have whatever happens next. Thirdly, Ukraine is and wants to be a European country to which the European door must be open. The process of integrating associated countries must continue. In 2011, we wanted the ENP countries to have as deep a trade and political relationship as possible with Europe, and we have now come a long way from the contractual basis. In order for the four fundamental freedoms of the European Union to be even more within reach in 2019, the agreements and reforms concluded must also be implemented. At the Eastern Partnership Riga Summit in May next year, we should be able to welcome the fulfilment by both Ukraine and Georgia of the conditions for visa-free movement. Fourthly, the security of our continent is not self-evident. We must increase our common understanding of the new security situation and harmonise threat assessments. NATO's 2% defence expenditure criterion is met by only three European Union countries: Greece, Great Britain and, of course, Estonia. Battlegroups created to improve the EU's rapid response capability have not yet been used, but the creation of missions has been arduous and time-consuming. It is obvious that you cannot stand up for your own interests and values if the defence sector is not covered by sufficient capabilities. Cooperation between the European Union and NATO is more important than ever. The reduction of the defence costs of the allies in the European Union and NATO must stop because of the new security situation. At this point, I would paraphrase Mr Draghi that not only the euro, but also the European defence, must do everything that is necessary. Honourable Riigikogu! The European Union's single market has now become the home market for our businesses. In August 2014, 72% of the nature of Estonian people and businesses went to the single market both directly and through value chains. This could, of course, be even more, and what goes on could have even more added value. It is therefore vital for Estonia that the single market works smoothly and with the lowest possible transaction costs. This means that access to the market, concluding transactions and enforcing agreements must be as simple, quick, efficient and secure as possible for Estonian entrepreneurs. We therefore still believe that our ultimate objective could be a single European civil code. We have recently moved significantly forward in the area of civil law and I hope that the Single European Sales Law initiative, as well as the cross-border movement of companies, will remain at the heart of the attention of the new Commission. However, in areas where we have achieved too little over the last five years, these are the free movement of services and the single digital market. Five years have passed since the entry into force of the Services Directive, and we are still talking about the potential for its implementation, which, according to the Commission itself, represents a total of 2.6% of the European Union's GDP. To date, we have only achieved 0.8% of this. We should therefore implement the directive as much as possible, but at the same time open up new opportunities. In doing so, we should, of course, focus on the services sectors and the removal of bottlenecks, which have more important cross-border economic potential and economic impact, such as the abolition of restrictions on establishment. When the Barroso II Commission set up the position of Commissioner for Digital, Vice-President for Digital Affairs, the necessity of this place remained incomprehensible to many and was linked, above all, to communications and roaming charges. True, the decrease in voice and mobile roaming charges is directly perceived by all people. In addition to roaming charges, the regulation on digital signatures and trust services, supported by Estonia and approved in September, can also be regarded as one outstanding change. This will create a framework for mutual recognition of European-wide digital signatures and a market for digital trust services. I really hope that Estonian companies, which are at the top of the world in this area, will make the most of this potential and it is possible in 2020 that at least 20% of European citizens will use digital signatures every day. I would just think, this is something that the people of Estonia have known for 15 years. However, as early as 2010, my predecessor proposed the creation of a digital single market by 2015. We must recognise that the legislation necessary for this is only partially presented and adopted, we realise that Europe is lagging behind in this area. "Digital" is not just a matter of communication regulation. Today, and more so tomorrow, all areas of life will be digitally amplified throughout. Data and consumer protection law, copyright and many other areas must go hand in hand with technological progress. There is therefore no reason to speak separately from the internal market and the digital market; we need an action plan similar to that of Jacques Delors and Mario Monti's internal market initiatives, with concrete measures. Let us call this action plan the Digital Single Market Act, which must be adopted by allowing safe cross-border movement of data, services and goods. The EUR 300 billion investment package proposed by the new President of the European Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker, which is still being prepared, must also be considered as a priority for the development of cross-border digital infrastructure. I sincerely hope that Europe's new leaders will listen to the call from Google's CEO, Eric Schmidt, for Europe to embrace the digital revolution. If Moore's law on technological development, referred to in the President's anniversary speech, continues to apply, the calculation performance of the Estonian Presidency in the first half of 2018 has increased four times compared to the current one. Dear Riigikogu! As a country on the margins of the European Union, the 'network industries' - energy, transport and communication links - and the development of the internal market in this area - are of particular importance to us. In 2013, our transition period was completed when the electricity market was opened. To enable the development of the energy market, the second subsea cable link connecting Estonia to Finland was completed in 2013 with the support of European funds. Last week, Elering opened an emergency power plant supporting external connections in Kiisal, which allows us to respond to unexpected power shortages in the Estonian electricity system in just ten minutes. In addition, last week the European Commission allocated EUR 112 million to the construction of a third power line with Latvia. The link with Latvia is expected to be completed by 2020. With the support of the next European Union budget, we must also be able to unify ourselves once and for all from the energy system in North-West Russia. Last week, the European Council established a new climate-energy package when we decided to establish a European Energy Union by 2030. In 2012, we adopted amendments to the Natural Gas Act in the Riigikogu on the basis of the European Union energy package III. As a result of the changes, the gas transmission service provider and the dominant gas provider must soon be separated and the market opened up to alternative sources. Today, Estonia is obviously still too vulnerable, as confirmed by the recent sectoral tolerance of the European Commission. The development of the gas market is necessary, above all, to increase regional security of supply, improve energy security, but also to reduce prices. As early as 2005, we started talking about the Estonian-Finnish pipeline connection and the construction of the regional LNG terminal supplying the Baltic region has been discussed in 2009. Since it was impossible to find a solution between the various projects at the time and the companies did not communicate, in May 2013, we asked the European Commission to help broker negotiations. With the help of the Commission, we reached the conclusion in February of an agreement on common intentions, according to which the companies concerned had to propose by May 2014 a plan on how to jointly establish a regional gas terminal. However, it was already clear in June that there was no common solution, which would also be accepted by the European Commission. The European Commission has now said that it has done its utmost to find a solution and that the ball is back at the national gates. The creation of a market with both pipeline connections and terminals has meant dealing with two sides of the same coin. We are in a position where it is impossible for us to say with any certainty that the Community and, therefore, the regional gas market will emerge. It's not a very good situation. Therefore, in cooperation with the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, I have held consultations with the Finnish Prime Minister to find a solution, and I believe that an agreement is still possible. In order to find a regional solution, a pipe must first be set up, which is a priority for the market and security of supply. The European Union remains ready to co-finance up to 75%. It is then necessary to invest in gas connections with Latvia and to build LNG terminals that satisfy the needs of both Finland and Estonia and other Baltic countries. It is quite possible that terminal investments will only be against the market after interconnection. We know that the European Commission has been prepared to provide financial support to the terminals rather symbolically. In any case, it is clear that this is an issue that we must move forward intensively. The current state of gas security in Estonia certainly does not satisfy us. In the outermost regions of the continent, we are located not only in terms of the energy system, but also in terms of missing transport connections. It is therefore very important that, on 28 October, the Baltic Transport Ministers signed the agreement to establish the Rail Baltic Joint Undertaking in Riga. In 2011, when preparing our European policy document, Rail Baltic was not yet a light blue wagon, but was more like a light blue dream. It is now one of the most important transport projects in the European Union. Together with the other Baltic countries, we will continue our efforts to submit a joint investment request in 2015. We have come close to a goal where turning the project back is almost unthinkable, and connecting Estonia, the other Baltic States and Finland with European centres can be achieved with a decade. I would like to bow deeply to the Commissioner for Transport, Mr Kallas, for this achievement. Following the 2015 and 2019 Riigikogu elections, the Riigikogu and the government will have to complete this project successfully. We already need to start working to attract transport, logistics and industry to a new community. However, in terms of the new work programme of the European institutions, I would like to emphasise another important development, namely the need for a broad-based trade agreement with the United States. In the 21st century, we need a new standard to combine the trade rules of our era on the basis of the largest markets and purchasing power. We will then call it a new standard among ourselves for those countries that love to live and trade in a world economy based on rules and free competition. If developments in the global negotiations get stuck again, I believe that other countries that think and share the same values, especially OECD countries, will later join this model. The special interests of Europe and America should not undermine the prospect of an agreement in the coming years. We have a great deal to gain from this agreement in Estonia, Europe and the United States. In summary, Estonia is satisfied with the new work programme of the President of the European Commission as well as the organisation of work. Our expectations and views coincide to quite a large extent and are reflected in the programming documents. I hope that the Members of the European Commission who took office last Saturday will reach the parliaments of all the countries of the European Union at least once during their term of office, including here. As the new European Commission has already started its work, I would like to thank the President, José Manuel Barroso, and the President of the Council, Herman Van Rompuy, who will conclude in November, and their teams for their effective cooperation and also for their successful crisis management. Honourable Riigikogu! It is already common for Estonia to be delivered to the European Union on the basis of the views of Estonia, which are discussed and confirmed by the Riigikogu. At the same time, in the spirit of the recommendations of the OECD country report, we have implemented a model of European Union governance based on central coordination, openness and involvement, and factual and early intervention. Today and tomorrow, we will also present a new procedure for dealing with the European Union to coordinate the implementation of the government's regulation through the information system. The new rules of procedure are based on the assumption set out in the legislative development plan approved by the Riigikogu until 2018 that the decisions of the European Union are also Estonia's decisions and must be decided on a domestic basis as is customary in the Estonian state. Recent examples of effective cooperation between us in defending Estonia's positions have been discussed in the Chamber of the Riigikogu on the European Neighbourhood Policy and political support for concluding agreements with neighbouring countries. I very much hope that the association agreements with Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova will still be ratified by the Riigikogu today. I would also highlight the recent strong support of ELAK for the discussions on regional fish quotas, as well as the meeting of the leaders of the Baltic States and Poland in the week before, during which the Estonian oil shale industry was introduced. Estonia has the image of a reliable, inclusive, but also innovative and pro-European Member State, thanks to cooperation between and beyond. We have always been able to rely on the assumption that agreements must be honoured. This is why, above all, thanks to the work of the Riigikogu, we are also constantly a Member State with one of the lowest rates of breach of European law. Our understanding is based not on the desire to follow the European guidelines with German precision, but on our overall legal culture. It remains convinced that the agreements will be honoured, and their execution will in turn open up more opportunities for the people and entrepreneurs of Estonia in Europe. A good example of our cooperation is the appointment of a Commissioner-designate in spring. Given the Commissioner's international weight, this is certainly an important matter of national importance to be discussed before the Riigikogu plenary. Only the best candidates can represent Estonia in this weighty position, and it is a great recognition that yesterday, former Prime Minister Andrus Ansip began working as Vice-President of the digital field. The mandate of both the government and the Riigikogu, as well as the mandate of the people in elections to the European Parliament, support the mandate of the new Vice-President to implement one of the European Commission's main priorities, which is the establishment of a digital internal market without any doubt. The government that takes office after the next elections will play an even more important role in European Union policy. The next Riigikogu will be the Estonian Presidency in 2018. Anyone who takes up the duties of a member of the Government of the Republic after the elections must be prepared to chair the whole of the European Union in his field. It is also of little importance to lead the search for complex compromises at the Council of the European Union meetings, where the working language is English. The responsibility of the next Prime Minister is to set up a team so that the Estonian Presidency is a success story. In view of Estonia's development, I am pleased that we have the courage to decide and the will to act at important moments. The determination of Estonians, as well as the willingness to compromise and the European spirit, will help us. Over the decade, we have realised that Europe can only move forward by contributing itself to Europe's development. All pre- and post-accession governments and Riigikogu formations, as well as the numerous working groups, have made a major contribution to this and deserve gratitude and full recognition for it. Together we made Estonia bigger! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U14	Thank you very much. We'll get to the questions. Please, Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U15	Thank you. Thank you, Prime Minister, for a meaningful report. Ten years after the European Union's largest enlargement circle, the new and old arrivals, the East and the West, as much as the North and the South, will no longer be spoken of. My question is about your assessment. Have the scissors between north and south become bigger lately? We see that, unfortunately, after a long crisis, budget agreements are still not being respected, structural reforms are not being carried out. It is thus very difficult to see how the European Union as a whole could develop, how the European Union economy as a whole could be better off. What is your assessment of whether this crisis will last long and the gap between north and south will deepen?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U16	Thank you. There are actually examples of both sides, but I dare say that if I had to choose whether or not the positions were drawn apart, I would rather be contributing to the approach. Yes, there are still countries that are trying to find a justification for this, calling the greater budget deficit flexibility, who continue to look for economic growth in the form of higher public debt, where I do not think it can be found in any way. However, there are also countries that seemed to be in a desperate position for many in this Chamber a few years ago, and who have now come out of this step by step, not only in their own country, but also more broadly in the hope that the stability mechanisms created in Europe, including the ESM, have achieved their goal at least in part. So it is difficult to give a very single answer, whether it is getting better or worse, but if it were to be chosen, I would say that, despite everything, positions have rather approached. Estonia, which has itself been a timer for a very responsible fiscal policy, must continue to speak in its own polite and balanced way how keeping budgetary expenditure under control has led to unemployment falling much faster than in the European Union and well below the European average, how rapid response to the crisis and constructive fiscal policy contributed to the economic revival of growth. In general, this is well known and therefore Estonia's words have a considerable weight on these issues in the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U17	Thank you. Please, Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U18	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I will continue with the previous question. How do you assess the state of play in implementing the new budget rules and the European semester? The current information is that, as an example of success, it is precisely those countries that have left the status of their country of programme, Portugal and Ireland, which are good examples. There are gaps, however, in those countries that are of great importance in terms of the weight of their economies, but who fail to comply with the agreed rules and thereby undermine the prospects for the future and exit from the crisis of the euro area as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U19	Thank you. In order for all the countries of the European Union to move towards meeting the criteria with their own budget deficits, the Council's table is still making a very serious effort. It is true that, in seeking justification for the deficit, it is said, for example, that investment must be made to turn the economy into growth. However, I dare say that the vast majority of the Member States of the European Union are of the opinion that growth must be sought in order to increase competitiveness, rather than in terms of a better functioning common internal market, rather than in terms of greater debt. I think we agree with the respected questioner that if you look for growth with a higher debt, you can find it in the very short term, but then the growth opportunities will be closed for a long time. I am pleased that Estonia's previous governments and parliamentary formations have not gone this way to look for growth through debt. This has been a wise choice from the point of view of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U20	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallemets!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U21	Prime Minister! The concern of the Estonian people for security and Ukraine is so important that over 10,000 people have donated more than 250,000 euros to various organisations in support of Ukraine, mainly the NGO Vaba Ukraine. Unfortunately, the European Union's long-term financial plan was drawn up before the Russian Federation had shown its true face in Ukraine. Do you agree with the position expressed by Mr Paet when we had a European security situation discussion here so that the resources allocated to foreign policy in the long term could be reviewed and increased if possible? The European Union's foreign policy would then be better funded and thus stronger.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U22	Thank you. As far as it can be reviewed, I believe that this is fully justified. Estonia itself has also made significant changes in its development cooperation and assistance funds this year so that we can support Ukraine more. In previous years, Afghanistan has been the destination country for our development assistance. I do not dare say yet (the year is not over), but it is potentially very possible that Ukraine will become a priority already this year. The Estonian state supports Ukraine with its limited resources, which we have for development aid, as much as possible. In addition, of course, to the various partnership agreements under which we help, for example, with treatment and specific equipment. So there are various formats in which the European Union can provide financial support. In my speech, I also referred to the fact that a larger package of financial assistance could be considered very seriously. This Marshall plan for Ukraine, which was written about in the Financial Times, is perhaps still quite fresh, but thoughts are moving in this direction, and I believe there is a reason for such solidarity.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U23	Thank you. Please, Marko Mihkelson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U24	Thank you. Prime Minister, thank you for your overview of the government's activities in implementing European Union policy. In your speech you mentioned that Estonia will have a Presidency in 2018. Just before us, the British Presidency should be held. In recent days, the question has been raised as to whether and how Britain will continue in the Community. I am very interested in how the Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia feels about this issue, which concerns the positions, attitudes and possible departure from the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U25	Thank you for your question. Of course, I support Britain's continuing membership of the European Union. I think this is very important for Estonia. Great Britain has the same views on quite a number of issues as Estonia, for example in security matters, but also in many others. The fact that the British Presidency is just before us also means that David Cameron is already sitting at the Council table on my left hand and we have a great deal of opportunity to talk to him about European and British politics as well as Estonia. I see that our views are similar to those of many subjects. There are questions where we argue, but mostly our views are similar. Regardless of this, Britain is, in any case, a very important Member State in Europe, a very important one. I would not like to think of a perspective that would be the case if Britain were not a member of the European Union. My answer to your quite specific question is that I unequivocally support the continuation of Britain as a Member State of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U26	Thank you. Please, Margus Hanson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U27	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Since Russia's aggressive behaviour towards Ukraine's territorial sovereignty has not diminished but, on the contrary, Russia has been even more aggressive in recent days, it is quite reasonable to raise the issue of imposing additional sanctions on Russia or at least renewing existing ones. In your speech, you also mentioned that we need to consider further sanctions for Russia. As Prime Minister, what do you appreciate your colleagues' willingness to discuss this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U28	Thank you. All these decisions on sanctions will be taken by consensus in Europe, both at Council level and in the Council at large. This feeling that all the conditions that were in this peace plan have not been met is, in my opinion, prevalent among the Member States of the European Union. Is and when will this feeling lead to the following sanctions? It's difficult to say. In most cases, sanctions are reviewed during the Councils. So this question should be discussed according to the graph. It will be a while before the next Council, the last one. At the last Council, last week we did not decide to impose any new sanctions. It's a specific situation. But this issue, of course, is worrying, because there were actually 12 points in this truce plan. It was not only that there were no direct military attacks on each other during the duration of the plan. The part of this plan was also to enable Ukraine to gain control of its eastern border, for example. There were several other points which, unfortunately, as sad as it may be, have not been met. Therefore, we cannot say that the truce is fully in force, just as it was recorded in this 12 point. For the European Union, sanctions are not an end in themselves. Sanctions have always been imposed with the idea of making aggression against another European country as difficult as possible to make reconsideration. If this is the case, the final result has not yet been achieved by sanctions, which in turn does not mean that fewer sanctions are needed, but may also mean that more sanctions are needed. But, as has been said, these things are discussed by 28 people in the European Union Council, plus the chairman of the meeting, and when a decision is reached, then always consensually. Europe is very united on these issues, regardless of what the public is sometimes trying to express. Even theoretically, these decisions cannot be made in a nonconsensual manner.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U29	Thank you. Please, Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U30	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! The new Vice-President of the European Commission, Andrus Ansip, has said in his beliefs that the success of the single European digital market begins with the creation of trust in the provision of services, and that, in turn, the safe identification of both service providers and consumers. Here, countries have different lengths of journeys to go. In your presentation, you have already mentioned the regulation on digital signatures and trust services, but Estonia has also come up with another initiative, namely e-residency. What feedback has it received from your colleagues in Europe, and do you see that it also has the potential to grow to Europe?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U31	Thank you. Andrus Ansip is facing a very difficult field of work. But if he has endured your difficult questions for nine years in this Chamber, he will probably also succeed in meeting the challenge he faces at European Union level. Let us be honest, most of the decisions that need to be taken are not technological; in all technological matters, most of the countries of the European Union are very advanced. The question is political. The challenge facing European Commission Vice-President Andrus Ansip is to persuade national prime ministers and economic ministers to take political decisions to create the prerequisites for digital services that were created in Estonia 15 years ago. Fifteen years ago! It is actually incredible how foresighted the Estonian people were, the government in 1999, when the prerequisites for digital services were created in Estonia. I remember that time pretty well. I remember that we didn't really have a very accurate overview of which services could be used with an ID card. There wasn't quite a plan for a digital prescription, a patient portal, and an election. The elections came as early as 2000, the idea of the elections, but first this foundation was created and then services were created there. All countries are looking at our example. I, too, have visited the house of Stenbock by the leaders of many countries, and everyone says that oh, though you have developed in this area, what if we did this pretty much 15 years ago, but that they still have some reasons why they can't go there. In the lion's part, these reasons are political. Andrus Ansip's task, of course, will also remain on his nine-year example, which is always a good prerequisite; he knows what he is talking about, he has been Prime Minister in Europe's most successful digital state for nine years to persuade European leaders to make political decisions similar to those of Estonia, at least in the same direction. Is this an easy task? Not by a long shot. As far as the e-resident plan is concerned, it is, I would say, a parallel or, in some ways, an intermediate phase. I do, however, believe and hope that in the future there will be many among European countries who create digital identity for themselves, their citizens. But since we're realists and we can see that this isn't happening very quickly, we're going to give them a hand, we're going to give them a chance. And what's to deny is that there's a little interest in it. This is likely to be of interest to the Estonian system in very distant countries. The first feedback, to be said, has been very positive. Now, of course, we also have a huge responsibility to implement this successfully. I very much hope that we can manage this successfully and that being an e-resident will be put into practice to the extent that has already been proposed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U32	Thank you. Please, Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U33	Thank you. Prime Minister! School brother Margus stole my question, but as a free ambassador who has not found a suitable group, I can ask you anything. [[Prime Minister Laughs.]] What is the government's current position on the financial services tax?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U34	Thank you. First of all, let me recommend joining the Reform Party Group. You will discover a lot of people in this group who think very much like you and who respect you very much as a human being. But the question of a financial transaction tax is a question of a paradoxically better known to the questioner than to the respondent. Our position has been and continues to be constructive. We are not those who have been overly enthusiastic or forceful in this process, but we are not those who would have slowed it down either. This is perhaps a pretty good example of Estonia's European Union policy. We understand that some countries attach great importance to this issue, and we will help them. We may not feel that we have much to gain from it, rather, on the contrary, maybe it would even be politically unpopular. But in general we are not afraid to think along and discuss these issues, which we do not directly benefit directly from. The fact that we have been able to act constructively on this subject for five and a half years has been our spokesperson, the honourable questioner, the fact that we have managed to maintain such a constructive line, has created important additional political capital for Estonia and has certainly increased our constructive and weight. I'm happy for that. I thank the questioner for keeping this line!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U35	Please, Kalvi Tough!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U36	Thank you, President of the sitting. Prime Minister! We know that the European Union's common agricultural policy plays a major role in European Union policy. We also know the position or position of Estonia there. Our direct payments are one of the smallest in the European Union, but we are moving towards averages, but this rate is not actually satisfying us. However, the disputes have been held for the new financial period, and we are still here following the battle with our fists. I'm asking about the current situation. We know how difficult our dairy producers are with the disappearance of the Russian market. The previous Commissioner for Agriculture, Ciolos, gave a very clear message to Finland and the Baltic States that the European Union will come to the aid of our milk producers and take mitigating measures. But now there's a new Commission. How will you assess how quickly and when the new Commission will take a decision so that our sector can move forward with its life?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U37	Thank you. There were several aspects to this issue. First of all, despite the fact that direct payments are lower in Estonia than in several other European countries, an agreement was reached on the allocation of funds for the new budget period that they would grow rapidly in Estonia. This is, in my opinion, a very important victory for the previous government and personally for Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, who held the last round of negotiations. As regards helping dairy producers, as well as other food producers and farmers, to cope successfully with the acute crisis caused by Russia, there are two sides. On the one hand, it is, of course, joint solidarity between the European Union, on which it is a little early to say, because I honestly admit that I have not yet had time to speak personally with the new Commissioner for Agriculture on this matter. I hope that our Minister for Agriculture will establish this contact as soon as possible. The relevant Council will probably come together soon, and it will be possible to take this matter forward there. But we can also act on our own. It depends on us, not on anyone else, how quickly we will be able to open up funds from the European Union's Structural Funds, including investment grants, a number of measures that will significantly improve the situation of both farmers and industries. I know the sector is looking forward to it. So here we have a lot of work to do in the government. The sooner we get these measures open, the sooner we can mobilise the European Union's money at all, the better our agricultural sector will be. In addition, of course, close cooperation between the Minister for Agriculture and the Minister for Enterprise in order to find new markets. It is not easy for ministers to go and try to negotiate with companies, but I am pleased that two members of the government have taken joint action on this issue. I really hope that these efforts will also succeed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U38	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U39	Thank you, Madam President. Highly esteemed Prime Minister! This office has made you a great expert on international issues, so I would like to ask you. The constitutions usually state who declares war, or war situation. The war requires an aggressor. If there is no declaration of a military situation, then there is no war, and if there is no war, there is no aggressor. Why do you think President Poroshenko doesn't declare war or a war situation, if you say there is a war, there is an aggressor, etc., all the rhetoric that we hear basically?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U40	Thank you. It is still amazing how much your rhetoric on this matter is similar to the rhetoric of one of our neighbours' presidents whose speech on the same subject I was able to hear at the recent European Union-Asia Summit in Milan. Vladimir Putin also says that there is a civil war in Ukraine or something similar, that legitimate elections took place in Crimea and that this is a declaration of the free will of the people. I would disagree on these issues. I believe that we feel the same way about international justice in the European Union. Several representatives of the Member States of the European Union, as I said in Milan, unequivocally, said that the people in Crimea have not had the legitimate opportunity to exercise their right to self-determination, as is imagined in democratic countries. I have very little to add to that at the moment. I cannot imagine what it would be like not to call aggression when foreign troops are on the territory of another country, when there is a real conflict of war. Then what do you call it? Let's think about it together.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U41	Thank you. Please, Jüri Morozov!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U42	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! The Estonian state in the European Union has become a pretty impressive donor both before and after accession, just like the other countries of the European Union. One idea of these grants is to reduce regional disparities, not only national differences, but also national differences. How do you assess the activities of governments in this area during this period? Has EU support been sufficient to ensure that governments' decisions to implement support measures have been correct and appropriate? After all, we can see not only in Estonia but at all that regional differences are getting worse.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U43	Thank you. Estonia has certainly won a great deal from the fact that, with the support of the European Union's structural funds, we have been able to develop more quickly. After all, the main purpose of using the European Union's Structural Funds is that Estonia can develop from the post-Soviet occupation into a modern European country faster than we would be able to do with our taxes. From this point of view, these instruments have certainly been justified, and I would say that Estonia has been one of the countries that have made the best use of these funds for the development of society. I could certainly find a few examples where European Union money has not been used as efficiently as it could have been over the last seven years or longer. I'm sure he will. We consider that this has still been the sum of billions of euros, and there are always even better solutions, especially when it comes to ex post evaluation. But if we look at the whole picture, the strategic spheres of life, infrastructure, health, economic competitiveness, there are so many things that we have been able to do in this seven years. By walking around Estonia and looking around anywhere with open eyes, we can see that the European Union has helped to take Estonia's life forward. So, no doubt, a lot has been done. It is the responsibility of our government to adopt the legislation that sets out the distribution of European Union funds over the next seven years, and that is a very, very big responsibility. This decision depends on whether we use these billions to make the most of society or whether money has been spent well, but the result is not enough. We also have specific focus on where we want to contribute. While a great deal of investment was spent in the last period and precisely to cover the backwards, people's qualifications and people in the broadest places are now much higher, including social services for people, health services, for example in the form of family medical care. So there are quite a few places where we can bring Estonia's life back to a new level. It depends on all our ministers and officials how wisely or unwisely we do so. It's a big responsibility, but I'm absolutely sure we're gonna make it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U44	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U45	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! You spoke in your speech about energy security and the development of the gas market. Recently, you and your Finnish brother agreed that the LNG terminal would come to Finland. We know who is organising the gas market in Finland, it is no secret to us. Where does this energy security come from, and how do you see the security of the gas market and the opening of the market? As we know, Estonian environmentalists have basically opposed the installation of a pipe in the Gulf of Finland. Has the views of Estonian environmentalists changed and is it possible to install Balticconnector here? Do they have an assessment?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U46	Thank you. The Finnish gas core network is managed by a company called Gasum. The majority of Gasum's shares are moving to the ownership of the Finnish state. There was public news yesterday, and I believe that this news is true. Secondly, let us look at this from the Estonian point of view. At the moment, the only alternative to gas supply is the gas coming from Latvia. Geographically speaking, it is coming from Latvia, but yet we know that it is a gas from a single source. We don't have any other alternatives, no real chance of a gas coming from that direction. What do we want to achieve? We want to achieve one big market, so that Estonia, the whole of the Baltic States, is not a separate energy island, but is connected to Finland, as well as to Poland and, more generally, to the whole of Europe. If the whole of Europe is connected to a gas network, it will not be possible for anyone for any reason to switch off a single country or a single region from a separate gas network. This is a very important security knowledge. Without the gas pipeline between Finland and Estonia, it is very difficult to imagine how to connect Finland, Estonia and the Baltics as a whole as a single market. So this gas pipeline, although I understand that environmental activists have their own interests, is in any case of strategic importance for Estonia. What's the status quo? The current situation is that in February Alexela, the then Minister of Economic Affairs, the project developer of Estonia, gave a fairly broad mandate to negotiate with the Finnish company and reach an agreement between the two countries, because if there is an agreement, it is possible that the European Commission will support this undertaking financially. Unfortunately, as I said in the speech, at the moment, the companies that negotiated with each other did not reach an agreement and we do not have an agreement on the location of the terminal or on the pipe. This is a very bad situation. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications also asked me to speak to the Finnish Prime Minister as to whether it is possible politically to pick up the so-called fallen ball and try to reach an agreement together. I believe that this agreement is still possible, but it is certainly not yet concluded. This information, which you had, that the agreement has already been concluded, is not true, but I hope that the agreement will be done and done in such a way that both Estonia and Finland can benefit from it. The current situation, I repeat, is that two companies from two sides of the Gulf of Finland have negotiated and tried to find a solution, but they have not found a solution. Now we are in a situation where we have no confidence that a solution is coming, so we must try to find it again. Well, life will tell us if we can come to a solution. I think it is very important from the point of view of Estonia that we find this solution. I do not like the fact that we are dependent on one specific gas supplier.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U47	Thank you. Please, Rait Maruse!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U48	Thank you! Good Prime Minister! We are discussing Estonia's European Union policy today and are pleased to note that the government has a realistic, positive and ambitious plan to work with the European Union in the interests of Estonia. You were asked, a few moments ago, about terminology in connection with the events in Ukraine, what rhetoric one country or another uses there. Do you also consider this to be part of the policy of the Estonian European Union, i.e. should we discuss in this Chamber what expressions are used or evaluated by a country outside the European Union about another country outside the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U49	Thank you. It's like that and it's like that. The attitude of aggression in Ukraine will certainly also be discussed at the Council's table. Here, the countries of the European Union need to shape a common position, consensus and consensus. The countries of the European Union believe that this is not a civil war, that there has not been a democratic self-determination of the people in Crimea. So, in this context, it is a part of European policy. On the other hand, on this issue, which was asked of course, it is also reflected that not all Estonian political parties have the same sense of security and understanding of those things that may not be bad to bring out in Parliament. It is probably good for the public to know more about the attitudes of the various parties to the events in Ukraine, and I see nothing wrong with the question being asked. My role is to answer all the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U50	Thank you. Please, Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U51	Thank you, Madam President. Good Prime Minister! I must say, in the interests of the truth, that the Centre Party does not have a common position on Ukraine. Mikhail Stalnukhin, for example, does indeed have a position; others have a position. I just came from Ukraine to observe the elections. I have seen with my own eyes that Ukraine has taken the path towards Europe and would like more integration with the European Union. Of course, this aggression by Russia and annexation by Crimea must stop, the sooner, the better. But I didn't want to ask about it. I would like to ask whether the government already has a plan by the time all the fine tools that we have received from Europe over these years end. We know that by 2020 we will indeed have quite a lot of resources, but at some point these resources will end and we will start paying the common fund rather than getting it from there. Have any preparations been made by then?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U52	Thank you. First of all, to the first part of this question. The chairman of the Centre Party has also repeatedly spoken on these issues. It must be said, however, that his views on these matters are more similar to those of Mr Stalnukhin than to yours. This is also one reason why I have publicly stated that as long as the Centre Party is led by Edgar Savisaar, as long as the Centre Party has such views on security, I cannot imagine being in the same government as the Centre Party or cooperating at government level in Estonian politics. That's one of the reasons I feel that way. I am pleased that your position is different from that of this party. Now to the other part of the question. It has been said that the Structural Funds of the European Union are going to end once and for how long. Some people said before the 2011 elections that we would not get that much money out of there in this period. What really became clear? The resources have even increased. There is no European Union country that does not receive any money from the European Union's joint programmes. This single budget is that everyone pays in and everyone gets something in return. This equilibrium point is changing. Estonia, which is now a net recipient, will become a net payer when our society's prosperity is sufficient. And believe it or not, that's actually good news. If we achieve this point, where we pay more to the European Union budget than we receive from there, then it actually means that our economy has developed so much in the meantime that Estonia belongs to the so-called better-performing countries of Europe. I think we should work hard to get there. Not that becoming a net payer is a separate goal, but to achieve such a level of prosperity that Estonia becomes a net payer is certainly an end in itself. As regards whether we have an exit strategy from these specific measures, of course we do. Both the European Commission and the Ministry of Finance have made it an absolute presumption that, if, for example, the Ministry of Social Affairs is to take some measure in which social services for disabled persons are to be provided in specific municipalities for the next seven-year period, they must also indicate how this service is to be financed in the eighth, ninth and tenth years. It's an elementary assumption and everyone's working on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U53	Please, Liisa-Ly Pakosta!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U54	Thank you. The last European Council reached an agreement on the climate energy package, as expected, but for the first time with the recognition that it could be reviewed in Paris after the 2015 global climate conference. How likely do you think that Estonia will make changes to its targets from 2015 onwards? Does Estonia have a plan B and should it even have a plan B?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U55	Thank you. That we need to plan some major changes now, I do not see, because this climate agreement was acceptable from Estonia's point of view. This is rather ambitious, although there are countries that say that it could be even more ambitious. It also takes into account our interest in this area, i.e. the possibility of achieving environmental protection in the oil shale sector, so that the added value of oil shale will grow several times. I mean that it will enable Estonia to produce oil shale diesel in the future, and it will reduce environmental pollution about twice and will also increase added value several times. So, in every way, very positive development. Therefore, I do not see that Estonia should impose in any way that Europe's views on this matter should change. The climate agreement certainly did not come easily, but I am very pleased that this agreement came. Europe must be a frontrunner on these issues. Europe is, in a sense, expected to play a global leading role. And the fact that the European countries, which are in very different situations, reached an agreement on this issue is, in my opinion, positive in any case. I think this went very well from Estonia's point of view.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U56	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U57	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! All you're saying is very right and very nice. But I would like to hear more about what people get from working with the European Union. Have you not thought, for example, about harmonising the social package in the European Union? People across Europe could, for example, receive a more equal pension, and social insurance could be much more equal. Haven't you thought about moving in that direction? And if you are, I would like to know what specific priorities you have in this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U58	Thank you. When we spoke earlier about the benefits for Estonia that have been gained from membership of the European Union over the last ten years, perhaps too much attention was paid to specific structural funds and immediate financial benefits. I believe that the greatest impact is, in fact, elsewhere. Not that I want to underestimate the structural funds in any way, but it has had a much greater impact that Estonia has become an integral part of Europe in these ten years. It is about values, it is about freedoms. In economic terms, too, if we look well at the practically every euro, we have had an internal market, because the lion's share of our trade involves trade with the European Union, much more beneficial than the European Union's structural funds. It is not quite a coincidence that Estonia's GDP has increased very rapidly during this period, that the wages of Estonian people have increased very rapidly during this period. Trade with the European Union, the economic convergence with the European Union's economy, has played a very important role in this. With regard to the costs that the state makes of its state budget, each country must look at what its options are. I know that in a neighbouring country of Latvia a few months ago, it was demanded that the salaries of Latvian teachers be at the same level as those of Estonian teachers. At the same time, we realise that although Latvia is definitely moving in that direction, so that they too will start to grow rapidly, just as they have grown very quickly in Estonia, this cannot be done by order. This still depends on the size of the economy of one country or another, the level of wages that can be paid in the private sector, and that in turn depends on the productivity of companies. I therefore believe that it would not be right for these issues to be resolved by order at European level. However, the membership of the European Union has created a very big prerequisite for the Estonian economy to continue to grow. As long as we have economic growth, wages can rise and social benefits can also increase.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U59	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U60	Thank you. Prime Minister! My question relates to the question of Mr Olga Soldier. But I am not asking what will happen to the Estonian state once the European Union's Structural Funds have already been used. I'm gonna ask you what we're gonna do tomorrow, what happens tomorrow. Yesterday, the National Audit Office published its report and pointed out such sad data that over the last five years Latvia and Lithuania have made significant progress beyond Estonia. We are in the process of working capacity reform and so on. What reforms should we start tomorrow in order to be a successful country by the time the Structural Funds come to an end and, as you mentioned, that we are no longer a recipient country, but a giver country?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U61	Thank you. That's a good question. I am pleased that the National Audit Office supports the reforms undertaken by the Government, including the work capacity reform you have mentioned. Work capacity reform is not only helping people, not only humanly important in the sense that people with special needs would be welcome to work groups much more than they are now, but also economically efficient, because more people will be involved in the labour market and there will be more people who can contribute themselves. It is certainly justified that the National Audit Office supports this reform, and a number of European institutions have also expressed their support. For example, the European Commission has repeatedly stressed with Estonia that this is a very important structural step forward, which will certainly also lead to economic growth. In addition, both the recommendations of external experts and our own wisdom have led to the continued importance of reducing labour taxes, which we have done jointly. This is one of the basic prerequisites for growth. It can be pointed out in particular that the business climate as a whole must be kept in constant positive development. Businesses need to feel that the best business environment in our region is here, that it makes sense to create jobs with high added value. If we do these things and invest enough in education, then I think that our growth expectations are very good. If Latvia and Lithuania are doing well, we should also be pleased. Latvia and Lithuania are important trading partners for us. The better Latvia and Lithuania, the better Finland and Sweden, the better Estonia will actually do. I would rather not feel jealous if they were doing well, on the contrary, we support them in everything. For example, when Latvia joined the euro, it was good news for us. The fact that Lithuania is joining the euro is very good news for us too. They will do so a little later than we do, but they will do so with determination, and we will support them in this endeavour.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U62	No further questions for the Prime Minister. Thank you very much, Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. Next, I would like to ask the co-rapporteur of the chair, Kalle Palling, Chairman of the Committee on European Union Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U63	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister! Honourable guests! Ladies and gentlemen, I have had the honour of chairing the Committee on European Union Affairs since July this year. I dare say that this has been a very busy and interesting period of work. This has been a time that can be called a breaking point in the cycle of political leadership in the European Union. We have a new European Parliament and now a new College of Commissioners of the European Commission. However, the European Union was just recovering from the financial crisis when it came to the heart of a deep geopolitical crisis. Jean-Claude Juncker, President of the European Commission, has rightly said in his role as President of the Eurogroup during the search for solutions to the financial crisis: 'We all, as politicians, know what needs to be done, but we do not know how to become re-elected after that. ' It seems to me that we have learned from the financial crisis and that we are now better able to explain to the public why it is necessary to take decisions at European Union level in the current geopolitical crisis. But has it been enough? Political analyst Fareed Zakaria has expressed the idea that a politician must not only be a seismographer who responds to vibrations in public opinion. Instead of following, it is our responsibility to lead. All the more so since our responsibility lies with the future of the European Union's Eastern Partnership countries, our responsibility is to ensure that the European Union's taxpayers' money allocated to Estonia is used responsibly and our task is to ensure energy security in Europe. These are issues that I would like to dwell on at length. Good Europeans! A year ago, we were looking forward to an ambitious Eastern Partnership summit in Vilnius, which was to be a major geopolitical event last autumn. This was to mark the beginning of a new period of relations between the European Union and its eastern partners. Unfortunately, it was different. There were no agreements with Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova. The desire of these countries to have a European cultural, economic and value space was said by the corrupt Ukrainian rulers no. A protest was fired on Maidan. Fortunately, those Ukrainian men and women who wanted to share in the progress and prosperity of the rest of Europe were sick of such a regime and dared to resist. The conflict was not resolved peacefully, and Russia decided to intervene militarily. Many countries in the European Union took too long to realise that this is not a civil war. News of green men, masked men, unmarked military equipment, and flagless soldiers who snuck across the border in full arms did not bring this knowledge. Violence, hundreds of people who died and thousands who had to flee their homes did not make the European Union react quickly enough. A plane shot down over Ukraine with almost 300 innocent people on board opened its eyes. President Barack Obama said in his speech on 3 September in Tallinn: 'Eastern Ukraine was not destabilised by the government in Kiev; it is Russian-minded separatists who are encouraged by Russia, funded by Russia, trained by Russia, supplied by Russia and armed by Russia. Nor have the Russian troops now moved to Ukraine on a humanitarian or peacekeeping mission. It's Russian armed forces carrying Russian weapons in Russian tanks. So, these are the facts. They're verifiable. They are not disputed. ' It is also a proven fact that the parliamentary elections in Ukraine on 26 October were triumphed by pro-European reformists. Upon Parliament's completion, the Ukrainian people gave strong and irreversible support to Ukraine's path to Europe. The same cannot be said, unfortunately, of the elections held last Sunday, 2 November in Eastern Ukraine, where the separatist leaders of Donetsk and the Lugansk People's Republic organised illegal elections, which are an obstacle to the peaceful settlement of the conflict. If we want Ukraine to succeed, we must ensure pressure on Russia. Ukraine lacks this capacity. It is therefore important to continue with the sanctions of the European Union in its current form in parallel with the process of finding a political solution. Sanctions support efforts to find a lasting political solution. Sanctions are also a way of putting pressure on Russia to take responsibility as a party to the conflict. We must not repeat the mistake that has often been made in resolution: if a ceasefire is achieved, political attention will be lost and the status quo will tend to be accepted. I would like to quote here the politician and the philosopher Edmund Burke, who has said that the triumph of evil requires nothing more than the inaction of good people. The current situation is not acceptable. Russia wants to create more and more frozen conflicts that have an impact on the security of the European Union as a whole. The European Union as a whole must therefore participate in the search for a political solution to the conflict. The delegation of the Riigikogu Committee on European Union Affairs visited Georgia and Moldova in the last week of October to support the integration of both countries towards the European Union. Moldova has done a lot to integrate with the European Union. Visa liberalisation, which entered into force in April this year, is a recognition and support of the European Union's trust in Moldova. We greatly appreciate the efforts of the Moldovan Government. On 30 November, there will be parliamentary elections where the people will decide whether to continue European integration or to intensify cooperation with Russia. Georgia can be proud of its strong support for integration with the European Union. It's a sure sign of the direction Georgia wants to move in. At the same time, the Georgian people need to see that their efforts bear fruit. It is therefore important that the negotiations between Georgia and the European Union on visa liberalisation already take place at the Riga Summit. The draft law ratifying the Association Agreement between the European Union and Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia is in the final vote in the Riigikogu today. This is an important step in developing political and economic relations between the European Union and these countries. The Committee on European Union Affairs supports the ratification of free trade and association agreements and hopes that other Member States, too, will rapidly complete the process of ratification of these agreements. Good friends! Jean-Claude Juncker, speaking before his appointment to the European Parliament, called for an end to the investment gap. Juncker said: 'I do not believe in miracles: in Brussels there is no miracle cure or growth button to press. Structural reforms, fiscal credibility and investment at national and European level must go hand in hand. ' 'Estonia needs bold decisions to kick-start the economy, to bring competitiveness to new foundations and to reconstitute Estonia's success story,' the Estonian employers write in their latest manifesto. Adding that the main aim of using European Union Structural Funds in Estonia is to move up the value chain of Estonian companies and increase export capacity. We have spent a lot of energy on negotiating the new budget period of the European Union and planning the use of European Union subsidies during this parliamentary term. I would remind you that Estonia will receive a total of EUR 5.9 billion in grants from the European Union between 2014 and 2020. With the support of the euro money so far, we have managed a large part of the basic infrastructure of the Estonian state - roads, buildings and pipes. The investments made will enable us to continue what we started in infrastructure projects in the next budgetary period. For example, for EUR 447 million, the transport funding is intended to continue the construction of the four-line road in Tartu, but also to expand Tallinn Airport. Still so we can get bigger planes and more passengers. We will continue to develop regional competence centres to encourage people to use know-how and develop cooperation. Successful examples are the competence centre for recreational craft in Kuressaare and the competence centre for health promotion and rehabilitation in Haapsalu. The operational business development programme is planned to target €75 million, the start-up programme for young innovative companies €7 million and start-up grants for companies €5 million. It is reasonable to support active companies that have shown themselves to be exporters on the market. The Ministry of the Environment manages the amount of grants in the coming period is around 385 million euros, allowing companies to adopt smarter solutions to achieve energy and resource savings. Over the next five years, more than 300 Estonian companies will be supported in development activities aimed at reducing waste. About €137 million will be invested in eco-friendly entrepreneurship. In addition, investments in the environment will continue in the construction of public water supply, which concerns tens of thousands of people, as well as in the construction of waste recycling. Nearly 146 million investments are planned to be made in improving farm performance and 170 million in support of environmentally friendly management. In the new budget period, we must focus our investments on smart growth as a priority, but also on improving people's well-being, improving work and quality of life. That is why we have planned to channel a third of the euro payments into education, employment and social security. A major investment goes to the development of competence centres at North-Estonian Regional Hospital and the University of Tartu Hospital, where 46 million euros are planned. We have planned EUR 85 million to modernise the primary health centres and to invest in the networking of hospitals. Still, to make health care more accessible and health care money used more efficiently. The Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund is expected to receive 121 million euros to provide active labour market services to people with reduced working capacity. However, it is planned to allocate EUR 38 million to the Social Insurance Institution to provide sheltered work and aid to people with reduced working capacity. I am talking about investments that should contribute to the success of the operational capacity reform. We have taken Jean-Claude Juncker's call for investment to be seriously linked to reforms. This is the only way we can ensure that the European Union's taxpayers' money is used fairly. Good listeners! The key to the security of gas and electricity supply for the future of Estonian consumers is Estonia's strong integration with European gas and electricity networks and markets. By launching EstLink 2, Estonia has become part of the Nordic electricity market at the beginning of this year. With the help of the new Community, our consumers will be able to benefit from better electricity prices in the Nordic countries without restrictions, and our electricity producers will have the opportunity to sell the electricity produced there. The benefits taken into account in the construction have also proven the work of the Community for the first six months. Thanks to EstLink 2, Estonia's market-based electricity price has been lower than it would have been under closed market conditions. For a large part of this year, we have been able to consume electricity at a price of EUR 30 to 35 per megawatt-hour. The regulated electricity price would probably have been around EUR 40 given the price level of carbon dioxide (CO2). In order to ensure security of supply through cross-border electricity connections, Elering opened a 250-megawatt emergency power plant in Kisal last week. Knowing that connections are as reliable in terms of consumer security as power plants in Estonia does not mean that Estonia should be a country importing electricity. On the contrary, from a broader economic development point of view, it would be ideal if exports of electricity were to be an important engine for economic development here. This cannot, however, be done on the basis of subsidies and at the expense of the environment. The production capacities to be built must be competitive in the emerging European Union's single internal energy market. The decisions taken by the Council at the end of October show that the European Union is moving towards more climate-friendly and sustainable energy production and consumption. The following objectives of the EU 2030 climate and energy framework have been agreed: to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 40%, to increase the share of renewable energy by 27% and to increase energy efficiency by 27%. I would like to thank the politicians and officials who have been actively involved in the work of the Council of the European Union on behalf of the European Commission for the result of these negotiations. I note that we also discussed the above issues with our Baltic and Polish colleagues in Narva, where our partners expressed their willingness to cooperate on energy security in the region. Skeptics believe that the oil shale electricity that enlightened us for years now falls out of competition. That assumption is wrong. The clause on the quality of diesel fuels contained in this agreement on the climate and energy framework provides a great opportunity to increase the competitiveness of oil shale electricity. It called for the rapid adoption of a draft directive on fossil fuels and greenhouse gas emissions for transport in order to maintain the competitiveness of oil shale diesel. According to the plans of the oil shale producers, the oil production of oil shale to be extracted throughout the year will be used as early as 2025. This opens the way for electricity to be produced from the by-product of oil production from ewe gas, creating opportunities to export electricity in the future. In view of the future, harnessing the potential of local liquid fuel production is also very important in the context of Estonia's energy security. The disengagement of the Baltic electricity systems from the North-West Russian electricity system has been discussed for a long time. We have now set the goal of realising this through the realisation of new investments and separating it from the Northwest Russian network. I believe that we will be able to operate in such a way that, from 1 January 2025, the Baltic electricity systems have been synchronised with the continental European electricity system. Cooperation between the Baltic States, Finland and the European Commission must launch a regional gas market. This requires the addition of one or more alternative sources of gas, the implementation of interconnected infrastructure projects and the harmonisation of market regulation. The choice of a particular project should be determined by the independence of the terminal operator from the current incumbent gas supplier, the completion of the project as soon as possible and the business model for which minimum public funding, including through a consumer tariff, would be preferred. As the Prime Minister mentioned in his speech, there is an active approach to reaching an agreement between Estonia and Finland to enable the necessary investments to be made in gas infrastructure in the Gulf of Finland before 2020. Our southern neighbours have done half the work for us, an investment request has been made for the establishment of a natural gas interconnection between Poland and Lithuania (GIPL) and on 27 November the floating LNG terminal Independence was opened in Lithuania. Prime Minister and Members of Parliament. The cooperation between the government and the parliament has been excellent during the working hours of the Riigikogu. Compared to previous years, as a country, we provide inputs in the European Union's negotiations at an early stage, often already in the consultation phase. The government must be commended for the fact that the background materials in Estonia's positions have become more meaningful, including more in-depth impact analyses, as well as information on the involvement of NGOs and interest groups. The government's work in preparing the Estonian Presidency of the European Union is noteworthy. This is an historic opportunity for Estonia to take the lead in the European Union for six months in 2018. That is why much force must be put into preparing the Presidency now. However, the Riigikogu has also been very active in European Union affairs during this period of work. In particular, Parliament's activity is characterised by the passing of debates during the financial crisis from the European Union Affairs Committee to the public space here, the Chamber of the Riigikogu. The Riigikogu has constructively intervened in shaping Estonian positions prepared in the government and has made changes, additions and emphasis. The government has also recognised and taken into account this work in Parliament. This is where I want to thank the government and the government administration for their friendly and very professional cooperation. I would also like to thank all the sectoral committees of the Riigikogu and their officials. It is on the basis of your work that we have shaped the positions of the Riigikogu in the Committee on European Union Affairs. As Chairman of the Committee on European Union Affairs, I am very pleased to say thank you to my members. Members of the Committee on European Union Affairs often have a double workload compared to others. We have had a lot of debate over these years, but in the end, decisions have largely been adopted by consensus. In summary, I will remind you of what Senior Research Fellow of the European Council on Foreign Relations Kadri Liik said during the Postimees opinion lunch in March of this year from Estonia. 'History has given us great responsibilities and we have succeeded in fulfilling them well. It has given us a certain sense of sober self-esteem based on great vigour, creativity and self-confidence,' said Kadri Liik. I was reminded of the position of Kadri Species when I listened to the speech by former President of the European Commission, José Manuel Barroso, about leaving the European Parliament. Mr Barroso called the current attitude in Europe the intellectual fascination of pessimism for the future of the European Union, which is very fashionable. Kadri Liik found in March that now that some try patronizingly to ask about Estonia, where Estonia is, he thinks and says he does not say where Estonia is, because Estonia is too good. I would like to do the same to keep us from becoming so modernly intellectual pessimists in European Union affairs. I have a very proud feeling that this same post-WWII Monnet vigor for European cooperation still exists here. And I am convinced that if necessary, we will be able to rekindle others. To this end, I would like to wish you all a sober and vigorous idealism on European Union issues and a successful electoral struggle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U64	Thank you. For the sake of the record, I would point out that, on the proposal of the President, the speaking time was extended by two minutes. That was to make sure that no one asked questions afterwards. Now questions for the waitress. Kalev Kallemets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U65	Dear waitress, You have just been wailing Moldova and Georgia, where there are frozen conflicts. This did not prevent these countries from signing association agreements. On 26 October, the elections in Ukraine won the political forces that will take as their coalition agreement the Association Agreement that we are going to vote on today. Political parties have also made it clear that they want to see Ukraine as a member of the European Union in the future. Can the conflicts frozen in Ukraine, Georgia and also Ukraine, according to your knowledge, prevent these countries from applying for the status of candidate for membership of the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U66	Thank you for your question. First of all, it is extremely regrettable that Russia's policy is what creates these frozen conflicts and is likely to increasingly seek to create them. However, I do not believe that these conflicts would in any way be an obstacle to granting candidate status in the near future, hopefully.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U67	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U68	The last question goes on. It seems pretty subjective. Will these new candidates still be subject to the Maastricht criteria? What are the prospects for them to cope with and for many years?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U69	Firstly, it is necessary to ratify the association agreements with Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia here in the Riigikogu shortly after the second reading, and only as a next step will these countries be given the prospect of accession. Today, it is certainly not the right place or the right time to make a subjective use of this word in your own question, too, to assess these possibilities. However, in view of the wishes of these countries, the sincere desire of the people of these countries and their faith in a better future in the European Union, I believe that their accession to the future cannot necessarily remain behind any condition.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U70	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much, Kalle Palling. I'm opening negotiations. First, I would like to ask for a speech chair as representative of the Group of Marko Mihkelson Isamaa and Res Publica Union. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U71	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! Colleagues! As the time is short, I will address the group's presentation on two very important issues: our competitiveness and security, and gas in terms of security. I fully agree with all those who say that over the course of more than ten years Estonia has become an active and visible Member State of the European Union. Although we still need partner support for many years to grow faster, Estonia is already able to offer future-oriented solutions to the European Union and to inject innovative thinking into policy making. I hope that digital Commissioner Andrus Ansip will also be able to help the new European Commission, which has started working these days, to make the Community more innovative and economically dynamic. There is much to be done here, as, for example, according to the latest analysis of the World Economic Forum, the best European company in the world is only the 15th most innovative company in the world. Just as international competitiveness is important for the European Union as a whole, it is very important for Estonia, especially at a time when our economy urgently needs a new impetus. In the opinion of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, it is precisely those activities or priorities that should be at the heart of our future European policy that would contribute to the faster development of the Estonian economy, but also to the creation of a capacity independent of European resources. All of this is possible if, first, our long-term security is guaranteed. Therefore, Estonia must be actively among those countries that maintain and strengthen unity based on Europe's fundamental values. Only a united and active European Union that addresses international challenges can provide its Member States with a secure and growth-oriented development environment. In the opinion of the IRL, Estonia should be among the leading countries in today's Europe to develop a new Community security strategy and to pursue a more active aid and support policy towards the Eastern Partnership countries. Today, the Riigikogu ratifies the Association Agreements between the European Union and Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova. This is a major step forward in their integration into the European legal and economic space. However, all of them still face very serious challenges, and success depends first and foremost on their own will and efforts. Estonia has been an active donor to all three countries over the long term, especially Ukraine in the last year. There is no doubt that the success of these countries in establishing a sovereign democratic rule of law is also our success. We remember very well how difficult our path to the European Union was and what we had to do to get there. But we knew that a successful reform policy could result in our membership of the European Union. Ukraine and Moldova currently lack a clear European perspective. Of course, this would be a long way for these three countries, but the objective recognised by the European Union would also contribute better to the implementation of complex reforms. In my opinion, Estonia should be here among those of the European partners who are much more active in this policy. The membership of the European Union has considerably increased the energy security of both Estonia and the Baltic region as a whole over the last decade. A few years ago, in our energy system, we were all connected to Russia. The Baltic Energy Connecting Plan, supported by the European Union, is a positive initiative that has promised to move forward and strengthen cooperation in the development of the electricity and gas markets. In this way, electricity connections to the electricity systems of other European neighbours have been created or created in the region, with the creation of the necessary prerequisites for a gas market which is of consumer interest. This is what IRL estimates that one of Estonia's most current issues is also related to, which needs to be resolved carefully and through the broadest possible discussion. In the opinion of the IRL, the Prime Minister of the Republic does not have a reasoned mandate to enter into binding agreements with the northern neighbour on the LNG terminal, regardless of Estonia's interests. I'll explain. It is a pity that neighbouring countries such as Estonia and Finland, which are as close and of common interest, have not yet been able to find a good compromise in the development of the regional gas market. It should not be forgotten that the European Union is also ready to play its part in supporting large investments. The construction of a LNG terminal may be supported by up to 35% and the construction of a gas pipeline linking Estonia and Finland up to 75%. Several factors, including gas agreements with Gazprom, have so far hampered agreement. In particular, the location of the LNG regional terminal has given rise to major differences in investment in the development of the gas market. I would remind you that Estonia has always been based on the position to support the best project. According to all estimates and analyses carried out, the best Estonian project has been so far, according to which the terminal would be in Paldiski. Work to develop it has come so far that the terminal can be completed by the end of this decade. At the same time, there is uncertainty on the Finnish side due to pragmatic considerations, and the best forecast is that the Finnish terminal that is expected to become much more expensive than the terminal designed for Estonia could only be completed by the middle of the coming decade. In view of this, there is no point in focusing on the pipeline, as without a functioning LNG terminal, there is no actual gas market. IRL is of the opinion that the Estonian Government should work to ensure that LNG regional terminal and the investment made for this purpose would come to Estonia. Let us not forget that this is important not only for energy security, but also for increasing the attractiveness of the economic environment. We want to see that the Estonian Government is fighting for new investments, not acting incomprehensiblely indulgence. IRL considers it important that the Riigikogu discuss this issue as a matter of national importance before concluding a binding agreement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U72	Barbi Pilvre, please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U73	Good manager! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Sometimes we do not realize that as a nation, we belong to a very exclusive club in the world, where access cannot be bought with a thick wallet, but requires the recognition of certain principles and values. This 28-member club is the European Union. A number of countries and nations, just now, Ukraine, Moldova, Georgia, are making an effort to get their foot in the door. Luckily, we're in good and dignified company. We became a member of the European Union ten years ago, and today it has become a daily day in our lives. Unfortunately, the image of the European Union is not always positive among the people. The European Union may often seem, in terms of values, even to us, to be an outsider. This came out, for example, in the context of the adoption of the Cohabitation Act. Eurobureaucracy is also often associated in common consciousness with pronouncements and depths of life, meaningless standards and tedious text masses, where the point is hidden. At the same time, we take for granted that European money flows will ensure life in many peripheral areas where, given market logic, it would have long been lost: proud buildings in remote rural areas and necessary for work in social margins, such as teaching social sciences at universities. We are in good company and, in fact, we should be aware every day of the value of this membership ticket. It is our duty now to help others in their endeavours to Ukraine, Moldova, Georgia. Estonia is also increasingly eloquent in the various bodies of the European Union, as demonstrated by the successful election of the Commissioner to the European Commission. We follow with interest the actions of Britain and the statements of leading politicians. As Eastern Europeans, Prime Minister Cameron's words matter a lot. Is Europe an equal membership organisation, or is there a clear distinction between the older members of the club and the new members? What will the European Union be like when the United Kingdom starts to block the free movement of labour and when a referendum on EU membership is held in the UK? What could that possibly lead to? Europe is a small, relatively secure oasis in the troubled world, despite the conflicts between Ukraine and Russia. In many parts of the world, there are Islamic regions in the neighbourhood whose uneasy developments lead to the pressure of refugees, such as in the Mediterranean, or Islamic radicalisation threatens us with a terrorist threat through so-called foreign fighters who, when returned from armed conflict areas, bring about a non-European attitude and a different attitude to the value of human life. Refugees on the southern border of Italy are also our concern, as far away as it would appear from just miles. Today's European Union, as an organisation, deals with a wide range of practical issues every day. We cannot pass climate and energy policies, so that Member States use their energy resources in a sustainable way that guarantees security. In Estonia, the topic is related to oil shale and the conflict of interest that broke out around it. I hope there's plenty of cold heads and common sense here. Anyone who looks at the big political plan expects the members of the European Union to show consensus in the attitude towards the conflict between Ukraine and Russia, which will give the background to our region's day-to-day lives for years to come. Can Ukraine pursue Europe in peace, or will Russia make its interests pay with an iron fist, while each Member State individually meditates on its own benefits and costs? The current common interest of the European Union is, in any case, the humanitarian situation and how people who are left with political ambition and violence can continue to live their daily lives in dignity. At first, the conflict that causes the troubles cannot be eradicated, but the consequences can be softened. That's good. We are better aware here in Estonia of the impact of the Russian import ban on the European Union's agricultural and fisheries sectors, because here we have a lot to lose directly and immediately. Countries like Estonia, Finland and Poland are facing particular pressure on the Russian market. The European Union should act as a single family here, supporting the largest beneficiaries of the import ban.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U74	Is the waitress asking for more time? Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U75	At the same time, our farmers and fishermen should also consider that we are members of the club and that this is the price of peace efforts. In order to pressure Russia to end the aggression in Ukraine, import bans are necessary. A topical issue requiring unanimous action within the European Union is the prevention of the spread of the Ebola virus. Our borders are open, but as a principle, free movement of noble people also means dangers. Peace mission soldiers in Africa are not the only ones potentially threatened, planes fly, and the world is open to everyone today. To sum it up. As Estonians, we could feel more like subjects in Europe, on the inside. It is not the case that when someone goes to the European Parliament, he goes, like in a play, to the left, to Europe. Estonia is in Europe, we are Europeans. If we do not identify ourselves in this way, it will also be difficult to demand it from the parents of the European Union as a club, and we will have the mark of a savage who has recently escaped from the post-Sovet for a long time. On behalf of the Socialist Group in the Riigikogu, I assure you that this is us, the European Union. But to keep it that way, you have to work all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U76	Mr Lang, on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U77	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! Some other colleagues left in the Chamber! It would be strange and would, of course, exceed the news threshold if I, on behalf of the Reform Party Group, said that I was talking about something other than our Prime Minister and the Chairman of the ELAK, who are both reform parties. That's not gonna happen, though. I would like to congratulate both rapporteurs and say that the views of the Group of the Reform Party are consistent with those of the aforementioned gentlemen's report, but some observations do, however. When Estonia had agreed to join the European Union in 2003, the support of the Estonian population for this accession was negative and neutral rather than positive. The Reform Party was then one of the spokespersons for joining the European Union. Today, 11 years later, we can safely say that we were absolutely right in most of the points. Estonia has won enormously from membership of the European Union both materially and spiritually. But we also have to admit, of course, that the European Union is no longer the same European Union as it was in 2004. Certainly, the Reform Party and the Reform Party Group in the Riigikogu are very pleased that Estonia has fought and won its place in the European Union, where it is not just a recipient and a follow-up speaker, but still a very clear front speaker. I think the main reason for this is that Estonia is a state, and hopefully it will remain such a state, which not only drives its national interests narrowly, but can see the whole, can see the common interests and can be the spokesperson for these common interests, even if it can be difficult in domestic policy. This is, in fact, one of the most important values of our European policy, which should certainly be maintained. It is certainly to be welcomed that the mechanism agreed in 2003 and 2004 in the decision-making process of European policies has endured very well in the past. There is Marko Mihkelson in this Chamber, with whom we have created this parliamentary mechanism in our time. I guess we both have to admit it's been pretty good with the time test. It was good to hear from the presentations today that the government intends to simplify the bureaucratic side of the decision-making process, make it even more transparent and democratic, which is certainly extremely positive. What, then, would reform parties in Parliament expect from European Union policy in addition to the positions that have already been voiced today? We certainly expect the competitiveness of the European Union to grow in an open economy throughout the world. The need to conclude a free trade agreement with the United States as a matter of urgency has been stressed here today. I would go even further, I think it would be reasonable to conclude free trade agreements with all the economic powers of the world. The United States of America is undoubtedly priority 1 here. That's what we're all gonna win. Of course, it could also be said that the Services Directive must be opened and made more liberal than today, because it is no secret to anyone that it is the free movement of services that does not really exist, of European fundamental freedoms. There are completely incomprehensible limitations that prejudice and all sorts of other suspicious things have left for us to date. We are certainly looking forward to concrete results in creating a single energy market. It is precisely the market in which there would be real economic free competition and no country or company in that country could be politically or corruptly manipulated by European energy companies. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U78	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U79	This is not only about investment, but also about judicial cooperation to prevent the spread of corruption from the east to Western Europe. We also expect the European Union to ensure that Estonia is connected not only to Europe politically, but also to transport connections, so that Tallinn can easily and quickly become Berlin, both by plane, train and car. We clearly expect the European Union to have a common foreign policy, unity, unity to oppose all forms of aggression, wherever they come from. But we also expect a single consular service from the European Union. We certainly expect the European Union to support the Ukrainian people in their fight for a better tomorrow. At this point, we call on the government to act on this issue. Neither the European Union nor the Estonian Government can remain passive here, just as the European Union remained passive in 2005. Kalle Palling, the current chairman of ELAK, spoke very well about this. The European Union is not the hardest competitive player in the world economy today and therefore the European Union needs to change its fiscal and economic policies. In this respect, Estonia has a specific success story in the form of its tax system. What do we expect here from the real government of the Republic? That he can explain the advantages of the Estonian tax system to our partners in the European Union. The exemption of investments from income tax has made the Estonian economy extremely dynamic, with many jobs created here. The transition to the same system could be a small magic wand and grass for those countries that are currently groaning at the expense of unemployment. It would be good if we could adequately explain these advantages to our partners. Otherwise, it seems that Estonia is doing quite well with European policy and its implementation in the European Union. So we want the power of the government for all the future! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U80	Mikhail Korb, on behalf of the Central Party Group, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U81	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister! First of all, I would like to thank Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas and Chairman of the European Union Affairs Committee Kalle Palling for his long speech of praise, which once again tried to show us how successful Estonia has been towards the European Union. Unfortunately, there is not so much time for me to talk and to give out the details, but I would like to say here that we are a good small country, but it is time to start talking about things as they are. Let's not sugarcoat things! Let's not make it look like we don't have a problem if we actually do. We are also talking about our concerns, discussing them and trying to solve them better and faster with the help of the European Union. It was only when it became clear that, with the approval of the government, data on the Estonian poor have been presented to the European aid funds, distorting the reality. The number of beneficiaries of income support was taken as the basis, which is several times lower than the actual number of poor people, as not all those in need are asking for support. Therefore, in the next seven years, the people of Estonia will receive less aid from the European Fund for Aid to the Most Deprived than would have been possible. Let me give you another example. In Europe, there is a European Globalisation Adjustment Fund, which provides assistance to large companies who are in difficulties due to changes in the international economy and are forced to lay off their employees. It is a fund that provides help to retrain unemployed people and helps unemployed people find a job or start their own business. Between 2007 and 2013, the European Union allocated more than EUR 400 million to this fund and 20 Member States received aid. The money was received by Polish companies, among others, and by Lithuanian companies, for example. It is strange that Estonia has never applied for money from this fund, despite the high unemployment and financial crisis in which Estonian entrepreneurs suffered a great deal. In the European Union, Estonia is trying to look like a faucet and to give the impression that the country is well. It has only recently become clear that, although we have a responsibility to protect the external borders of the European Union, it is not okay. There are not enough border guards to protect the border, and the border has grown to a large extent. The result is illegal border crossings, which culminated in the kidnapping of the Eston Suitcase. It is unclear why enough money has still not been allocated to build the border. The government should first make it clear to itself what is going on at the border and give the European Union an adequate overview of it, because, in cooperation with the European Union, we will certainly be able to secure borders better than we alone read cents from the state budget. Finally, I would like to highlight our problems in agriculture, to which the government has still not paid attention. Estonia is known to be covered by the European common agricultural policy. However, we know that the Estonian farmer is in a very poor position compared to other farmers in the European Union. The State does not pay farmers the additional EUR 23 million that the European Union has promised to pay as transitional aid. Farmers are in a difficult situation. On the one hand, they are left without additional support by the State, and on the other hand they are affected by the sanctions caused by the Ukrainian crisis. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U82	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U83	It is important to understand that the Estonian farmer competes primarily with other farmers in the European Union. In order to remain competitive, the payments paid to our farmers must be equivalent to those paid by other countries. So let us not embellish ourselves in front of the European Union, but also speak openly about our problems. This is not a matter of whining, as the ruling parties are trying to show. This is a criticism that we ourselves will win when we talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U84	Thank you. Kalle Palling, is it a procedural problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U85	Thank you. Mr President, absolutely not procedural. Since my name was mentioned in the previous speech, I take this opportunity to speak on the subject. Mr. Korb said nicely that we can't sugarcoat things and we have to talk about things the way they are. I have an appeal here to the members of the Central Party Group as well as to the Estonian public and to many journalists: let's call things right! There is no civil war in Ukraine, it has never been there. Let us say things with the right names, let us not try to embellish the situation with speeches and distract attention by using even a brushed border or saying that agricultural payments will decrease if they actually increase. Make things clear and talk about things the way they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U86	In addition to the presentation, Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas has expressed his wish to make a statement on this item. On the basis of § 71 of the Home and Working Procedures Act, I give it an opportunity. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U87	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I came back here to thank everyone who played their part in this debate, both by asking questions and by speaking on behalf of the political groups. It was especially heartwarming to see that four out of the six who went to this panel today were chairmen of the Committee on European Union Affairs, three former and one present. Its consistency, and partly the consistency of positions, is welcomed. To a very large extent, Estonia's European Union policy has been consistent and it has also been our firm strength. As a matter of fact, it is difficult for me to accept the views expressed by the representative of the Centre Party Group. There were reasons and consequences here for quite a number of topics, let's say, in a creative connection. That's why I wouldn't stop at it for long. However, it is important to know that when it comes to the proper construction of the border, work has already started on this. I have a good feeling that the Reform Party Group will support both the Prime Minister and the Chair of the European Union Affairs Committee. My views coincide with those of the Group. So I wouldn't stop at it any longer. I welcome the fact that very correct emphasis on Barbi Pilvre actually complemented my presentation and Kalle Palling's presentation, emphasising the unity and values of the European Union, which are very important. We also need to give even more priority to the role of the European Parliament. It is actually very important who are the six people who represent Estonia there. The position that Barbi Pilvre had on this issue is quite clearly consistent with my views. I agree with much of what Marko Mihkelson said on behalf of the IRL Group. Creating and improving the prerequisites for the growth of the Estonian economy is certainly part of our European Union policy, but also of politics in general. The importance of security in Estonia's own policies as well as at the table of the European Union and, of course, at the NATO Summit, the very important emphasis. What I cannot fully agree with is what are our real choices at this point in time for connecting the gas market. The second government in a row is the official view that the gas pipeline is the most important thing for us when it comes to connecting markets. This formal position is supported by the European Commission's position. The European Commission has made it very clear that they are prepared to provide 75% financial support to the associations. In the case of a regional terminal, they have spoken of symbolic support, it is early to talk about a specific percentage, they have not said how much this percentage is. The main talk has been about support for the regional LNG terminal of 5 to 10%. The largest number I have heard in person is about one third of the cost of this terminal, certainly not 75% as in the case of a pipe. But that's it. Nor can this terminal itself arise unless we have a pipe connection. We have to take into account that Paldiski is still about 40 to 50 kilometres from the Estonian gas transmission networks, and without having to connect to it, this terminal makes little sense. The regional-sized terminal also makes very little sense when there is no connection to Finland, i.e. a larger market. This aspect simply needs to be taken into account. The previous Minister for Economic Affairs gave a fairly broad mandate to a private company, Alexela, either to enter into an agreement or at least to agree on a common solution between the two countries. Today, unfortunately, we are in such a state that this agreement was not born, and we must assess our circumstances and situation from this point of view. We do not currently have any agreement that would apply to this matter or that would satisfy us to the end. We must be guided by this aspect. Of course, if the Prime Minister or the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, or any other representative of the State, is to enter into any agreement on this matter, it is important that he has clear support. I have no objection to this issue being discussed in Parliament as a matter of national importance. But I have a suggestion to avoid, say, excessive passions because, in fact, we need a tangible result, not a fight between us here, which is the right thing to do in Estonia. I believe that this tangible result is achievable, although it is not easy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U88	Thank you. I will close this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U89	Our next item is the second reading of draft Act 714 on the ratification of the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and Ukraine, of the other part, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Marko Mihkelson, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U90	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think I am exaggerating by saying that our Parliament is coming to very important decisions. This also applies to the draft ratification law on the ratification document on the basis of which we give our approval to the entry into force of the Association Agreement between the European Union and Ukraine. I would remind you that the Riigikogu held draft 714 at first reading. a 15 October. We asked colleagues and political groups for amendments, but they were not received by 17 October. However, the text of the draft has been subject to technical corrections on the basis of a proposal from the language editor. The Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed the preparation of the draft for the final vote on 21 October. At the meeting of the Commission on that day, the members of the Commission focused on one issue in which to admit that Ukraine's association agreement with the European Union is somewhat different from the agreements that will be concluded with Georgia and Moldova. I am thinking of postponing the implementation of part of the free trade agreement until the end of next year. In order to obtain more precise information on how and under what conditions the parts of the free trade agreement will apply, as I emphasised, the European Union market will be open to Ukrainian operators from 1 November, and European Union companies will receive the same right on the Ukrainian market hopefully from 1 January 2016, an additional meeting was held by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. On 3 November, the representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs presented the facts to us, and I believe that the members of the Commission received exhaustive answers to all the questions. Of course, during this debate, the issue of the ratification process was raised. As of today, if we hold this debate here and prepare for the final vote on the ratification of the Treaty, seven of the 31 parties have given their approval. In addition to the 28 countries of the European Union, the Ukrainian Parliament and the European Parliament and the European Atom Agency must say yes. Estonia would be the eighth ratificationer. At the meeting of the Commission, representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs were given the heart of Estonia to take an active role in further discussions and in the implementation of the Association Agreement among the countries of the European Union, as well as in its bilateral relations with Ukraine, in order to find steps that could help us to implement the reform foreseen in the Association Agreement in Ukraine as soon as possible. At its meeting on 21 October, the Committee on Foreign Affairs made the following procedural decisions by consensus: to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft 714 be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for a second reading on 4 November, to close the second reading, to put the draft to a final vote and to adopt it as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U91	There are questions for the waitress. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U92	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, At the beginning of September, a truce was signed in Minsk, leading to the end of the war in Eastern Ukraine. It's just such a relative ending, and after that, 500 people have died, but it was a truce. A few days ago, President Poroshenko withdrew the signature given by ex-President Kravchuk on behalf of the Ukrainian state in Minsk. How can this withdrawal be interpreted?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U93	Thank you for your question. I must say that during the process of the Association Agreement, we did not address this issue in the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu. But it is true that Ukraine faces very serious challenges. Apart from fulfilling its contractual obligations, it is necessary to protect the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the state, which is undoubtedly a very difficult task. I believe that the main objective of all interested parties is that the war that claimed thousands of lives in Ukraine should end. As you yourself pointed out in your question, dozens, if not hundreds, of people have been killed in gunfire in different parts of Eastern Ukraine in the last two months. It cannot be interpreted in any way as a truce. Unfortunately, the so-called elections in Eastern Ukraine that took place on the weekend, 2 November, are in complete contradiction with the agreements reached in Minsk. I think that the main objective of the President of Ukraine and, hopefully, the new government that will be in office soon, is to protect the lives of its citizens and the territorial integrity of the country. But their very important task is also to start implementing reforms as soon as possible to help Ukraine overcome both economic and other problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U94	No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has proposed a final vote on draft 714. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on draft Act 714 on ratification of the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and Ukraine, of the other part, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. There were 65 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft, 1 member of the Riigikogu against, no abstentions. The Act on the ratification of the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and Ukraine, of the other part has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U95	Our next item is the second reading of draft Act 705 on the ratification of the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and Georgia, of the other part, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Margus Hanson will report on behalf of the Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U96	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Let me remind you that the first reading of Bill 705 was completed. 15 October 2005 and the deadline for submitting amendments was Friday 17 October at 16 a.m. No amendments were tabled at that time. The text of the draft act contains a technical amendment to the standard proposed by the language editor, namely a reference to the document of the Official Journal of the European Union is included in the text of the draft act. At its meeting on 21 October, the Committee on Foreign Affairs decided to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that this draft be placed on the agenda for the second reading of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on 4 November. Secondly, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has a proposal to conclude the second reading, to hold a final vote and to adopt the draft as a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U97	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. The Commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft 705. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on draft Act 705 on ratification of the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and Georgia, of the other part, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. There were 66 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the bill 705 and there were no respondents or abstentions. The Act on the ratification of the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and Georgia, of the other part, has been adopted. Honourable Riigikogu, the European Union Affairs Committee has proposed to extend the plenary session of the Riigikogu, if necessary, until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. We need to vote on this proposal. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the European Union Affairs Committee to extend the plenary session of the Riigikogu until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote. There are 58 members of the Riigikogu in favour of this proposal, 5 against, no abstentions. Working hours have been extended until 14:00.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U98	Our next item is the second reading of the draft Act on the ratification of the Association Agreement between the European Union and the Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Moldova, of the other part, initiated by the Government of the Republic of the Republic. The rapporteur is Enn Eesmaa, Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U99	Ladies and gentlemen, In this Chamber we read this bill for the first time on 15 October and finished reading it. No proposals were tabled by the deadline of Friday 17 October at 4 p.m. The text of the draft proposal contains a technical amendment to the standard proposed by the language editor. At the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we decided to propose to the Executive Board of the Riigikogu that this draft be placed on the agenda for the second reading of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on 4 November. The proposal of the Committee on Foreign Affairs is to conclude the second reading of the draft, conclude the final vote and adopt it as a law. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U100	Any questions for the waitress? Please, Kalev Kallemets!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U101	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Article 5 of the Association Agreement also provides for political dialogue forums on foreign and security policy issues, regular ministerial summits, regular meetings of the Political and Security Committees and experts. Do you think that this would create better preconditions for the completion of the Istanbul agreement that the Russian Federation should remove its 15th army of 1500 troops from the disputed territory of Transnistria?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U102	Of course that's hope. However, there is little hope alone, efforts must be made constantly, and the European Union is quite united in these demands. As you know, there will be parliamentary elections in Moldova at the end of this month, on 30 November. A very large part of the explanation work relates to their future consultations. You have also certainly noticed the irritation of the Russian President when it comes to talking about Moldova, that there may be parallels to the events in Ukraine. These are serious issues, but hopefully Moldova's future will be democratic.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U103	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U104	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, The title of the draft act mentions three parties: the European Union, Moldova and the European Atomic Energy Community. As far as I know, there is no nuclear power plant in Moldova, there is no production related to nuclear-related materials. In Georgia, for example, serious negotiations were held with France in 2006 and 2007 on the construction of a nuclear power plant and some have even been designed, but there has never been anything like this in Moldova. Please explain why this connection has been singled out here! That should mean something very important.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U105	That is quite an important question. It is indeed relatively difficult to talk about Atomic Energy in Moldova, but this point is very important for energy. Euratom remains an independent legal entity, although the Member States are the same as the European Union and the institutions of the European Union administer the Community. The Agreement covers matters falling within the competence of the European Atomic Energy Community as set out in, please see for more details, Article 77 (i) of the Agreement, which states that 'cooperation in the field of nuclear safety and security and radiation protection may also be carried out in accordance with the principles of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and relevant international agreements and conventions concluded within the framework thereof, as well as with the Treaty establishing the European Atomic Energy Community, where applicable. ' That's the explanation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U106	Thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. The commission has proposed that the draft be put to the final vote on 706. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Act on the ratification of the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Moldova, of the other part, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 706. Please take a stand and vote. There were 62 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the 706 prelude, and no one was against or impartial. The Act on the ratification of the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Moldova, of the other part, has been adopted. We also welcome the Georgian and Moldovan ambassadors on the balcony. Congratulations and good luck to your people! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U107	Our next item is the first reading of the Act amending the Emergency Act, the Emergency Act and the Law on the Organisation of the Defence Forces, initiated by the National Defence Committee. Innar Mäesalu, Member of the National Defence Commission, please present the speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U108	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, It is my great pleasure and honour to stand before you here to present my first draft report. This concerns the first reading of bill 719. According to the National Defence Commission s. On 16 September, the Commission initiated a draft Act amending the Emergency Act, the Emergency Act and the Order of the Defence Forces Act. The purpose of the draft is to close the gaps created by the Law amending and implementing the Law on Law Enforcement Act, which entered into force on 1 July 2014, concerning the use of the Defence Forces and the Defence Union during an emergency and emergency situation, and the implementation of direct coercion by the latter. The law on the organisation of the Defence Forces will be specified accordingly. The provisions on the application of direct coercion are from s. a 1 July in the Law Enforcement Act and not in the Police and Border Guard Act, which is why the draft amends the relevant provisions of the Emergency Act, the Emergency Act and the Order of the Defence Forces Act. Under current law, the rights of the Defence Forces and the Defence League will not be increased. The draft also introduces a few technical amendments. The Emergency Act changes the name of the Defence Forces as a state institution throughout, as from 1 April 2013 it will be written with a capital letter instead of a small initial letter. In addition, the Emergency Act harmonises the use of the same meaning of the terms "Defence and Defence League" and "Defence Forces." The draft under discussion was dealt with by the National Defence Committee at its meeting on 21 October before being presented to the first reading. At this meeting, the Commission decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft law be included on the agenda of the plenary session on 4 November for the first reading. A speaker was appointed to serve as a waitress for the National Defence Committee. The Commission also decided by consensus to propose the completion of the first reading of the draft. On the basis of § 99 (1) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs Act, the Commission decided by consensus to propose to the Chairman of the Riigikogu that the deadline for submitting amendments be set. a 11 November at 12 noon Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U109	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 719 be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments in s. a on November 11, at 12 noon.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U110	Our next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the law on restrictions on the acquisition of immovable property initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group. The initiating waitress is Mikhail Stalnukhin. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U111	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, § 10 of the current Law on the restriction of the acquisition of immovable property provides for national defence restrictions on the acquisition of immovable property. A natural person who is not a citizen of a Contracting State of the European Economic Area or a legal person not established in a Contracting State of the European Economic Area shall be prohibited from acquiring immovable property on the islands of the sea, in Narva, in Narva-Jõesuu, in the city of Sillamäe and in some other municipalities. The purpose of this draft is to enable a person who is not a citizen of a Contracting State of the European Economic Area but who lives in Estonia on the basis of a long-term resident's residence permit to acquire up to 0.2 hectares of immovable property, which gives him the opportunity to buy land in gardening cooperatives. I don't want to offend you with the idea that you don't remember what you're talking about. It is likely that the draft amendment to this law could be called the draft of the century. When the Commission had its last debate, the advisers could not recall whether it had been discussed seven to eight or ten to eleven times since 1999. I have only seen once in this Chamber of the Riigikogu how the draft is being recalled from third reading, and that was precisely because of this amendment. I can only add that the Socialist Group has initiated a similar bill, which means that if it is voted on today, tomorrow the Central Party Group will hand over its draft again. Let's try to work together, maybe by joining forces, we'll get to the goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U112	Any questions for the waitress? Meelis Mälberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U113	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Russia has unilaterally, without any agreement with the Republic of Estonia, marked out the control line between the two countries. This control line divides Setumaa and has left the homes of many setus on the other side of the control line. In the light of this bill, what do you say to these citizens of the Republic of Estonia? I stress: citizens of the Republic of Estonia who cannot use and dispose of their property, their land and their forests.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U114	Very nice question, very understandable question. The objective is clear: to steer the talk away from a specific problem. If you use the same technique, I should tell you now, for example, about the war between Paraguay and Uruguay or something similar, and find something smart there. Look, colleague, you've been working on this law for a long time. You know perfectly well that these are people who are long-term residents of Estonia who are born here. Figuratively speaking, there are two people who have some real estate in a gardening cooperative, but one of them can drink tap water with glass, and the other one has to use a spoon. It's abnormal. Why would such a thing politicize? It's a purely political tantrum. These are specific people who live in Estonia, who do not intend to go anywhere, who pay taxes, whether they work here or are retired. I just don't get it. For God's sake, I am not going to comment on anything outside the context of this question so that there is no wrong idea that this is something greater than a purchase-sale permit for a person who lives in Estonia continuously and legally.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U115	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U116	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, You're not here for the first time with this bill. Can you imagine why this very sensible and simple draft would find such a jealous opposition from a human perspective? Is it feared that people who belong to a gardening cooperative will hold separatist elections after that, or what is the point of not being able to meet people with such a simple change?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U117	Thank you, dear colleague. It's a huge question for me, too. I don't understand it. In our time, when we started in this composition, we did everything very thoroughly, and since it was safe to fear that there were some national defence threats, we asked the Ministry of Defence to give us an opinion as to whether these plots of 0.2 hectares were hiding any danger to Estonian statehood. The Department of Defense is now of the opinion that they do not see any danger in this. If I have said something wrong, the co-rapporteur will certainly explain how they formulated their position. Just roll the ball to the next person who says the opposite, in this case, it's the Home Office. I cannot help but say this, because it was really very funny in the last meeting of the Commission to hear the explanation that if one grandmother buys 0.2 hectares on the other, it creates prerequisites for separatist moods and perhaps allows them to separate 0.2 hectares from Estonian territory. You know, I've heard all kinds of talk in this Riigikogu, but the kind of crap that a representative of the Ministry of the Interior spoke at the last meeting of the Commission, never. It must be insane or completely wiped out with the brain, that in a commission where the dumbest Estonian people are not sitting, we can talk this shit. So I think, Mr Kallo, that this is a political tantrum. You remember how IX or X sounded in the Riigikogu with such a specific voice: 'This is our political will. " It is our political will, someone said, and that is it. That's all there is. There's just no other explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U118	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U119	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! When we first came up with such a proposal some time ago, the draft came to second reading and there was a vote. At that time, too, the argument came from our security institutions that it was a security issue and that it was all decided. That was the main argument why the bill had to be voted on at the time. I was not satisfied with your emotional reference to the argument put forward by the Home Office. It's like you can't think of it as an argument. Can you tell us what the specific arguments were, which is why this bill cannot be processed further?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U120	These arguments I say in the second half of the answer. First of all, I say that we are probably all about the same level of education. I think everyone here has read the books 'Yes, Minister' and 'Yes, Prime Minister'. There, Sir Humphrey explains so I guess his name was five ways of denying anything to his minister, but there's no need to explain why you're doing this. If I remember correctly, the fourth option was to point out that these are security risks. If you're referring to security risks, that's all there is to explain. Fortunately, our committee has gone further and even ordered an analysis, if I am not mistaken, from the Ministry of Defence. They promised us this year in May, but they didn't. It was later said that, from the point of view of protection, these risks do not exist. Now it's the Home Office. Look, here's the situation. I've told you this once before. We'll take Narva City. Small private homes are about 15 miles [1.5 km] from the border. If you're not from Narva, you're passing by and you don't even realize that they're not Narva houses anymore, the gardening cooperative has already begun. These houses are the same, the size of the plot is the same. The difference is, one house can be bought with the six-hundredths of land there, but a house that stands 20 meters away cannot be purchased. There's some kind of security risk within 20 meters. When we thought about what these risks might be, we fantasized about it, not at this committee meeting, but at a few meetings of the Commission back, that it may be possible that in this border zone with exactly the same houses and six centuries of land, there is a soil from which, at a great moment, a tank or a grid or a helicopter comes out, or there are some other mysterious assumptions to start some kind of military operation. What is the security risk? I'd like to know that myself, I don't really know that. I know that the kapo has even written a letter on this subject to me, and it was quoted to me that Narva should be shut down on the shore. The European project has now been carried out there, opening tomorrow is fantastic! By taking advantage of the opportunity, I invite everyone to see how wonderful our Narva River has become because of this project. The question is that on the shore there was also a question of security risk: perhaps there should be barbed wire, concrete, border, border lock. Luckily, it didn't work. Fortunately, the European Union's money went into operation and it was done on the shore. On one occasion, talking about security risks doesn't hold up, on the other, for some reason. I tried to fantasize in vain, figure out the risk associated with this 0.2 hectare. Actually, I've told you about a hundred and fifty acres, but there's no such land in gardening cooperatives. During the Soviet era, six centuries of land was given, after eight, later 12. And that was the maximum they gave you. I just can't figure out what kind of security risks might be there. But it doesn't play a role. The people on whom decision-making depends either way, in most cases there is no hall. They haven't heard any argument, even if it's been here 12 times. They don't give a shit, they're told that if it's a draft from the Centre Party Group, we have to vote against it, and that's it. So if there are security risks involved, and if there are, what they are, it's a big, big secret. We here are discussing something quite different, and this is a matter of political will.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U121	Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U122	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, For many, maybe it's worth a visit there, so they'll understand how absurd this is. But I just wanted to ask if there's any idea what the neighbors are like. As far as I know, there is no such absurd situation anywhere else. Or am I wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U123	This is a case in which I have no desire to speculate on any examples from other parts of the world and talk about how matters are regulated in Finland and how they are in Latvia. I am trying to make it clear that these are simple people who, for their long and health-damaging work in Kreenholm's Manufacturing, where they produced the added value that we benefited from in our time, and suffered all the reforms that followed, once received eight or six centuries' worth of land. They got those plots for doing this job. Today, some of them would like to sell this land because there is no more health and can't go there. Unfortunately, the 40% of the population that are potential buyers in our area are not Estonian citizens. Otherwise, there'll be plenty of buyers. I don't want to go away with my examples, I want you to see this particular person who needs your help. There is no ideology or politics in it. This is a specific, practical, economic issue. I'd stop at that.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U124	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U125	Dear waitress, I would like to clarify one example in your reply. You said you could buy in Narva City, but you can't buy 20 meters away. But the city of Narva is also in the border zone. Did I just not understand, or were you wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U126	A lot of people don't get it. You can't understand it, just like you can't understand one other thing. You know very well that Estonia is ranked 17th in the table of Business Freedom Indexes. We're very high up, and I can start my own business in about half an hour. That's right, isn't it? It can be done by any person. And any foreigner who lives here could buy the same gardening cooperative through his own company. No one understands why one person can buy such land as a legal person, but not as a natural person. There are many such incomprehensible regulations, including border misunderstandings. In order to talk about everything, you need to live at the border, but then you will understand how much there is now, not too much, but there is still no understanding.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U127	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U128	Thank you, manager. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking you to educate yourself. Does this prohibition apply only in one particular section, where the land of the gardening caverns is present, or does it apply throughout the eastern border?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U129	The border zone is clearly running along the border. The border zone is the kind of thing that I think is supposed to be a closed zone. But I assure you, there's a place like joaorg in Narva where you're walking along a river so close that I don't think I can throw a stone there right now, like 70 meters, but in my youth, I'd throw it across the river. There's a place where I'm standing 20 meters from the border and a border guard shows up two to three times a day, even in winter. In the morning, you go for a walk with the dog and there's fresh white snow on the ground where all the tracks should be seen. But the night it was snowing, you'd go for a walk in the morning and there'd be no tracks. It's like no one's been in Joaor's territory all night, no car, no pedestrian. Such a misunderstanding. Our project, designed to clean up the shore and joaoru, covers the same border zone area. I mean, it's not forbidden to be there day or night. Fishermen are standing there on two shores, on our shores and on the Russian shores, with these medium-long lines, and they throw a line across the border. Everyone thinks the neighbor has a fish fatter, doesn't she? That's normal. There's nothing unusual about it, even though it's a border zone. And that's the background why not all people can live humanly there. That's the point. This whole border zone and everything that concerns it, especially in Narva and near Narva, is a big question for me. From the railway bridge to the reservoir, there's a completely closed area where you can't joke if you're not a fisherman. And a fisherman doesn't have much to do with it either. At the same time, there are areas that are absolutely open; we have several projects there to make people happy. In some other similar places, however, people are not allowed to do anything.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U130	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U131	Thank you. Good colleague! You said that a lot of people are already out of control to keep that 0,2 acres of land, especially those with a retirement age in their hands. How do you figure out what's going to happen to those plots near the border that we're talking about today? If we continue to wait on these drafts and, let's say, ten more years we will be discussing this issue here, what then?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U132	Thank you. A very good question, to see immediately that the former mayor and the chairman of the council, who is concerned about the economic side. But it's all very sad. It's very sad. Thank God, there are stables who buy our cottages, but they are usually bought in such rich gardening cooperatives as Cherry and Health Plus. However, there are also those that were founded in the '80s and have not been very advanced, these are such dead zones. There's a neighbor disappears at the beginning, then another neighbor just doesn't show up, the house is either unbuilt or so sloppy that it collapses. But the land tax must still be paid by the gardening cooperative and this is an economic blow to everyone else who still uses the land. They don't find the owner, or if they do, he says I don't pay, I don't go there, I can't sell, I don't pay! So what's left with the cooperative? He needs to pay for those quitters. In gardening cooperatives with more abandoned plots that cannot easily be sold to another simple person, the economic situation is much more difficult than in a cooperative where everyone is still delivering. Imagine some kind of power line project being made. Usually, the city costs half and half of the gardening cooperative. Everyone wants electricity. There are 200 or 20 houses in the gardening cooperative, all of them want electricity, except that, with the same length of the line, this line in the cooperative, where there are many abandoned land apps, costs a lot more for people who go to the garden and use the land. So the economic side is also very important. By the way, the problem is not raised to give one person the right to sell or buy a border plot. This initiative is on the agenda from the end of the 90s because the good leaders of the gardening cooperatives see it as a very big problem that they, and no one else, have to deal with. So, yes, this law has been blocking the development of gardening cooperatives for decades. And there is absolutely no justification for this. The problem could be resolved within a few months of normal processing. Why don't you want to do this? Please explain to me! I'd like to hear this argument someday, these risks, so I'd believe it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U133	No further questions. The rapporteur for the Committee on Rural Affairs is Kalvi Tõvi, chairman of the committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U134	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Rural Affairs discussed draft law 694 at its meeting on 20 October. We have been discussing this in the Committee on Rural Affairs since spring 2009. Indeed, as Mr Stalnukhin said, there have been many times. As a result, the information provided to the members of the Committee on Rural Affairs on this subject is relatively high. Mr Tarmo Tamm asked here what municipalities are covered by this law. Allow me to read out § 10 of the Law on the restriction of the acquisition of immovable property, entitled 'State-defence restrictions'. I'll read it down to § 10, then we'll know which areas we're talking about. 'A natural person who is not a citizen of a Contracting State of the European Economic Area or a legal person not established in a Contracting State of the European Economic Area shall be prohibited from acquiring immovable property in the following areas or in the event of a change in the size or name of the following areas within the limits existing on 31 December 1999. These areas are the islands of the sea, with the exception of Saare- ja Hiiumaa, Muhu and Vormsi; in Ida-Virumaa Narva, Narva-Jõesuu and Sillamäe, the municipalities of Alajõe, Iisaku, Illuka, Toila and Vaivara; in Tartu County, the municipalities of Meeksi and Piirissaare; Tarmo, in your municipality of Põlvamaa, the municipalities of Mikitamäe, Orava, Räpina and Värska, and in Võru County, the municipalities of Meremäe, Misso and Vastseliina. It also states that, for a nationally significant reason, the Government of the Republic may, by ordering the person referred to in subsection 1 of this section, authorise the acquisition of immovable property in the areas referred to in that paragraph. So the Government of the Republic has powers of decision. This section is intended to be amended by a draft law of 694. At the meeting of our committee on 20 October, our colleague, Mikhail Stalnukhin, was invited as the representative of the initiators of the draft, the Head of the Department of Infrastructure of the Ministry of Defence in the role of Deputy Secretary for Defence Investment Nele Loorents, and the Head of the Legal Department in the role of Deputy Chancellor for Legal and Administrative Affairs Erki Kodar, and the Adviser to the Internal Security Policy Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs Jaarek Konsa. Let it be said that we had also received the opinion of the Government of the Republic, in which the Government announced its position in draft 694 not to support it, while the Minister of Education and Science asked for his dissenting opinion to be recorded. This is the starting point for our committee meeting. As I said, the Members of the Commission have been well briefed in discussing previous legislative proposals of the same kind on this issue. Indeed, some of these drafts have also reached second reading when the first reading has been completed. But we still had some questions and we got answers to them. Now the procedural side. The Commission decided by consensus to appoint Mr Kalvi Tõud, Chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs, as rapporteur, to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the 694 plenary sessions by today, 4 November, and to propose that the draft be rejected. There were 6 members of the Commission in favour, 2 against, with 0 abstentions. The representative of the initiators of the bill said that he wanted to know the arguments as to why the termination of the first reading of this bill would not be supported. As Chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs, I can say that all the members of the committee are likely to have their firm argument as to why they are not in favour of the draft or are not in favour of it. It is difficult to make a general argument as to why one or the other of my fellow Members voted in one way or the other. Of course, there were views that the security situation had changed. At the same time, there were opinions that Mr Allik had delivered a draft containing provisions that would reduce security risks. That is how the Commission's decision was made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U135	Now the questions. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U136	Thank you. Dear waitress, You indicated that the Government of the Republic has the right to decide whether to allow Aunt Maal to buy this small plot of land. Would you tell the members of the Riigikogu how many such decisions have been adopted by the Government of the Republic during the period of operation of these provisions, which has been adopted by the Government of the Republic for just over 20 years?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U137	Good colleague! As far as I know, there's been a couple of those times. I admit that this regulation is perhaps too strict, so I would point out that in the draft law by Mr Allik, which he passed on, this regulation has been moved, let us say, to a slightly lower level. But yes, the Government of the Republic has had its decision-making power, but the people living in our country have not had much desire to put their applications on the table of the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U138	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U139	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! At our first attempt some time ago, the main argument against it was the interest of security. The corresponding structures had to carry out an in-depth analysis, but they did not. I mean, there's no big problem. And you also know that a natural person can't buy and sell land there, legal can. If you look at the statistics on how many natural persons have garden land in Narva-Jõesuu or in the area of North Peipsi, this is a very high percentage. I have this not a good question: maybe there is a problem in people that they are Russian citizens? Perhaps this is the main problem and no one in this country will ever deal with this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U140	Good colleague Eldar! Here's what we're talking about. Indeed, when the Riigikogu Rural Affairs Committee discussed this draft earlier, the Ministry of Defence raised its objection to it. The Rural Commission has asked the Ministry of Defence to carry out an analysis for a certain time, which is the reason and whether it is reasonable that local governments are fully within this zone with their territories, or whether other borders and other criteria are at issue. The Ministry of Defence informed us this spring that there were no objections and that they did not see any problems in this matter. However, the position of the Government of the Republic sent to us in the same way states that when imposing restrictions on the acquisition of immovable property for foreign citizens, the need to guarantee the security and sovereignty of the state was taken into account in the broadest sense. The draft was not supported as the proposed amendment entails the need to carry out an additional internal security analysis. Consequently, the Committee on Rural Affairs invited a representative of the Ministry of the Interior to its meeting, which I spoke about on 20 October, to explain why they had written such a clause and when their internal security analysis would be completed. We have received the answer that it will be in work in the first half of next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U141	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U142	Thank you, manager. Good colleague! I'm trying to figure out where this threat comes from. If a person has a cottage and lives in a cabin, will this increase the risk of security if he becomes the owner of an immovable property? You, as chairman of the committee, said that all members of the committee argue their decision differently. But you have a great opportunity to present us with your argument as to where this threat comes from. Why did you vote against?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U143	Good colleague Tarmo! The security threat is likely to emerge from this same analysis of internal security. You're asking what the danger is. If we knew that danger, we wouldn't have to do any analysis. We'll find out. You asked me why I was specifically against this bill. My colleague Jaak Allik has delivered a bill which, as far as I know, reduces the potential risks, and I think that if it comes into this Chamber, I will be in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U144	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U145	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Commission. I'm asking you a question because you've been working on this committee for a long time. I would remind you that when the same amendment was discussed during the previous government coalition, representatives of the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence agreed that security analysis would be carried out by the Ministry of Defence because the Ministry of the Interior had no particular objection. Now I realized that it was agreed that security analysis would be carried out by the Ministry of the Interior because the Department of Defense had no objections. Can you explain what this change is about? And when and from whom will the final security analysis come? Did you understand that in the committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U146	Thank you, Helir! The Ministry of the Interior and Defence was probably unable to cooperate so well during the previous government that this analysis was completed. It has now been promised by the Ministry of the Interior, namely in the first half of next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U147	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U148	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You noted that the Government of the Republic has taken a negative decision, meaning that it does not support this bill, but the Minister of Education and Science asked to record his disagreement, which is probably a dissenting opinion that contradicts the opinion of the Government of the Republic. In the Commission, you voted and supported the opinion of the Government of the Republic. What does it say? Do you have any ideological contradictions with the Minister of Education when he gives one opinion, then you give another opinion? How do you figure that out?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U149	Good Mikhail! We all have our opinions. People have different opinions. And we do not have any differences of opinion with the Minister for Education and Science on ideological grounds.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U150	Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U151	Thank you. Dear waitress, Please say in two sentences what we should tell those people who have worked in Estonia, paid taxes, given birth to children, and so on! What would be the Commission's very simple answer? What shall we tell them if this bill is again rejected?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U152	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U153	We did not formulate such a response in the Commission, but it is still possible, with the permission of the Government of the Republic, to make this purchase and sale. I'm sure you'll tell them that Jaak Allik's bill will be in this hall soon, and then things will work out.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U154	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Commission. In the previous government, the cooperation between the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Defence was very good. I can assure you, it wasn't an analysis. Now I understand that the current government has decided to put this on the next government. You said the analysis would be done in the first half of next year. But since the elections will take place in March, the government will change. But my second question is this: did the debate in the Commission have the fact that legal persons could own these plots of land and form real estate, not natural persons? What is your personal view of this? We may not know the ring of legal persons and the origin of their capital may be confusing, yet they do not represent a risk, while a natural person who is very clearly known is a greater threat. Explain the logic!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U155	Thank you. There was no debate at the Commission meeting, but we have discussed this before. Yes, I admit that this is an issue that must certainly be addressed in this same analysis by the Ministry of Homeland Security. At the same time, we know what commitments have been made as a contracting country for the European Economic Area. These nuances should be considered seriously in the analysis to be prepared. However, there are places where there are more serious concerns.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U156	Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U157	Thank you very much. Honourable performer! You said the Home Office security analysis would be available to us in the future. Can we logically conclude from this that this is a matter of delaying the decision on the subject? I'd go even further. Aren't you afraid that this argument might also jeopardise the draft law developed by Jaak Allik, as this comprehensive analysis is probably not ready by then?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U158	Thank you, my good colleague Enn. Yeah, I'm afraid so.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U159	No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U160	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. That's a pretty fairy tale mood. It reminds me of the hero of fairy tales in Central Asia, Hoja Nasreddin. He said he took the sultan's donkey, promising that in 20 years the animal will teach the human language for a lot of money, of course. If that doesn't happen, he'll lose his head. When people asked, "What are you doing, for God's sake! It is impossible to teach a donkey to speak human language! ', then he said that in 20 years one of these three will still die, either the donkey or the sultan or him. Resolving this issue over the years for another four years, and we have reached the same time mark as in this fairy tale of Hoja Nasreddin, where someone had to die. In fact, I understand that there are two solutions to the problem. One is realistic and the other is fantastic. The realistic solution is that aliens come down from the sky and put them to the members of the Riigikogu, at least 51 of them, to their senses, there is a normal vote, and this problem can finally be solved. The fantastic option is that most members of the Riigikogu begin to understand the problems of ordinary people. I think it's a sci-fi dream. In fact, there are no emotions for a long time, there is only the notion that this bill could be written in the same way as 'Yes, Mr Minister', which was mentioned at the beginning. You see, the acquisition of a small plot of land has a security significance, which could endanger the Estonian state. But I think in a few weeks we'll make sure that if the coalition partner offers the same Social Democrat Allik, this security risk suddenly disappears, suddenly disappears, and then maybe this scheme can continue. In the last term, the Minister of the Interior said he had no problems, the Secretary of Defense promised to do an analysis, the Ministry of Defence didn't have any problems during this term, the Ministry of the Interior said no nonsense, and so he goes. The next stage is what I already described. I have left it to the pleasure of reading, Mr Allik's draft, as a dessert. That's what I'm gonna read tomorrow after I file this bill again. But the evil languages have told me that there is an opportunity to give a sales decision to the mayor of the country. Maybe I'm wrong, but the evil tongues say something like that. In that case, I must say in advance that, if the name of this law was different, it has not always borne the name of the law on the restriction of the acquisition of immovable property, once the title was completely different, the old version contained the permit of the governor of the country. It was not used by any person, unlike the Government of the Republic has granted permission to a single natural person and to a single legal person, all of it! And that's for 20 years! As far as I know, no mayor gave permission to anyone while that law was still in force in the 1990s. So work hard, comrades! Let's keep talking about this! Indeed, it tends to become an absurd theater. God, it is a pity that there is no one among us who can describe it as the classics knew it, and to say once again: yes, Minister, we are not going to allow it, there is a security threat here, or something like that. See you later! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U161	Thank you. Riigikogu speech chair Jaak Alliku, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U162	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The text of this bill is already discussed by the current Riigikogu for the fourth time, which is certainly a kind of record. On 21 September 2011, we unanimously approved the proposed amendment, as it had been agreed by both the Minister of Agriculture, Seeder, and the Minister of Defence, Laar, who dealt with the draft by the government. The Ministry of Internal Affairs then woke up and the government withdrew the bill before the third reading, because the idea of allowing a person with a permanent residence permit in Estonia to sell gardening plots of 0.2 ha size in the border zone to a subsidiary of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, probably with a security risk. The Ministry of Defence was tasked with developing a specific object-based approach to this issue. As no proposal was received within the deadline, the House discussed and rejected the same draft, still waiting for proposals from the Ministry of Defence, which were granted until 1 May 2014. On 13 May this year, a letter signed by the Minister of Defence, Mikser, was received to the Riigikogu, which stated that from the point of view of military defence there is no need for such national defence restrictions, but the authorities responsible for internal security must assess their relevance and internal security. So in three years, we had returned to our starting point. I want to say very clearly today what the Social Democrats have meant by presenting, defending and supporting this legislative amendment over the years. We are thinking of allowing, exceptionally, the resale of privately owned gardening plots of up to 0.2 hectares of private ownership of citizens of the Russian Federation and also of stateless persons residing in Estonia on the basis of a permanent residence permit, to other similar persons. As we know, these persons can fully legally register a private limited company in Estonia and carry out such a sale without restriction. However, since they are often older and without legal and business experience, I consider it humanistic to allow such a transaction to be made directly. In the absence of a clear draft submitted by the Centre Party Group that we are talking about the resale of privately owned land, it has allowed a vicious and even absurd interpretation of the idea that border country or municipality-owned lands should begin to privatise by 0.2 hectares to non-citizens, which I hope the Centre Party has never expected. The Social Democrats still consider that it would be reasonable for any such transaction to give discretion to a county governor who should, in specific cases, ask the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior for an opinion in order to determine whether a particular plot of land is defenceal and to examine the buyer's background. Mr. Stalnukhin here said that in his day the country elders were right, but no permits were granted. Unfortunately, he did not specify, and I do not know whether anyone turned to the farmers or the county elders refused to grant permission. If this bill ever comes to our tables, we should specify. By doing so, we would mitigate the potential threat to internal security, and at the same time we would a priori refrain from suspecting all our compatriots living in Estonia on the basis of a permanent residence permit, which would be simply foolish in the current political situation. It is obvious that the draft proposed by the Centre Party in this form does not find the support of the majority of the Riigikogu today. Still wishing to find a solution to the problem that is positive, humane and also internal security risks, Riigikogu members Jaak Allik and Etti Kagarov submitted a draft to the Riigikogu procedure, which includes both the restrictions that I spoke about. This is also the reason why the Social Democratic Party Group does not support the further procedure of the draft we are debating today.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-04_U163	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission has proposed to reject draft 694 at first reading. Let us begin the preparation of the vote on this proposal. Dear colleagues, I am voting to reject the draft proposal of the commission at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 48 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 14 against and no abstentions. Draft 694 has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the procedure. Dear colleagues, item 6 is closed. Thank you! Today's trial is over. I wish you the strength of our work! Closure of the sitting at 1.49 p.m.
