ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-13_U1	Good fellows, good morning. We will begin the session of the seventh working week of the seventh plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. First of all, I would like to ask for a chair of speakers from the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or inquiries. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-13_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I hand over the draft law amending § 16 of the Road Act on behalf of the Central Party of the Riigikogu. A legislative amendment would give local authorities the assurance that at least 10% of the amounts of excise duties on fuel will be allocated to local governments for the maintenance of local roads in the national budgets of the following years. The initiators of the draft act continue to support an increase in the proportion of excise duties on fuel allocated to the municipalities, the aim of which is to ensure a minimum level of legislation for the municipalities. The maintenance of local roads is a very important task for the municipality, which is required by the Local Government Organisation Act and the Road Act from both municipalities and cities. The Road Act in force until 1 March 2009 provided that at least 10% of the amount earmarked for the financing of road maintenance was allocated to investments in local roads. Paragraph 16 (3) of the Road Act was also amended by the State's 2009 Supplementary Budget Act and the requirement that at least 10% of the amount earmarked for the financing of road maintenance is allocated to investments on local roads was abolished. On 19 February this year, the Riigikogu approved the development plan for transport, which states that 10% of the road savings should be allocated to local government roads in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-13_U3	There's no more calls. On behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted a bill, according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on its further proceedings. We don't have any messages today, so please let's do the presence check. 75 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 26.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-13_U4	Let's start working on today's agenda. The first point is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on Public Water Supply and Sewerage initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No, we don't want to open negotiations. So we can go to the final vote. I will put draft 569 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 75 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The draft law amending the Law on public water supply and sewerage initiated by the Government of the Republic 569 has been adopted as a law. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-13_U5	We will move on to the second item, which is the first reading of the Riigikogu's decision to release a member of the Riigikogu, Lea Laarmaa, from the judicial office of a member of the Supreme Court, 595. I would like the Chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rait Maruste!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-13_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On 4 February this year, the Supreme Judge Lea Laarmaa made a statement to the President of the Supreme Court asking the Riigikogu to propose that he be dismissed from his post. a 10 July as a result of his retirement pension. On the basis of § 99 (3) of the Courts Act, a member of the Supreme Court is released from office on the proposal of the President of the Supreme Court of the Riigikogu. Following this provision, Priit Pikamäe, President of the Supreme Court, proposed that Lea Laarma be released from office as a member of the Supreme Court as of 10 July 2014. This proposal was discussed by the Riigikogu in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 25 February. We agreed with this proposal and proposed that the first reading of the draft decision be carried out in the Riigikogu on 13 March, then today. Our proposal is to take this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-13_U7	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. A final vote should also be taken at first reading on a proposal from the lead committee. So let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I shall put to the final vote a draft decision of 595. Please take a stand and vote. 66 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. Draft 595 of the decision of the Riigikogu by the President of the Supreme Court "Freedom of a Member of the Supreme Court, Lea Laarmaa" has been adopted as a decision. The second item is closed. Good fellows, thank you. Today's trial is over. I wish you strength in your work! Closure of the sitting at 10.08 a.m.
