ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Honourable, we will begin the Monday session of the 16th working week of the VII plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, there is the possibility of transferring both drafts and inquiries. First, please speak on behalf of Heili Tõnisson's Government!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U2	Mr. Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching nine draft laws today. First of all, the draft law amending the Law on Liquid Fuels and the Law on ambient air protection, Urve Palo, Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law. Secondly, the draft law amending the Rescue Act, in the Riigikogu, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law, the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Regional Affairs Hanno Pevkur. Thirdly, the draft law on child protection, the draft law in the Riigikogu, is represented by the Minister of Social Affairs Helmen Kütt. Fourthly, the draft law on disability benefit. Fifthly, the draft law amending the Health Insurance Act and the Health and Safety at Work Act. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by Minister Urmas Kruuse when dealing with the two draft laws mentioned above. Sixth, the draft law amending the Tax Administration Act and the VAT Act. Seventh, the draft law amending the Road Act. Eighth, the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and the Law on special labelling of liquid fuels. The ninth draft law amending the Income Tax Act, the Social Tax Act and the Estonian Cultural Endowment Act. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi in the proceedings of the aforementioned four draft laws in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U3	Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U4	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Central Party Group, I will give a considerable part of the question to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas concerning the activities of banks in the regions. In recent years, Estonia's larger banks have cut their costs, reducing the number of offices and ATMs, among other things, as well as the nomenclature of services provided. At the same time, the prices of services have increased. In the first months of this year, banks unanimously raised the price of handling cash, for example, partly in order to direct customers increasingly to use electronic banking channels. Swedbank has started to reduce the number of branches that can be settled in cash and exchanged. The opening hours of the branches have been reduced. The recent change in cash settlement concerns the Bank's Haapsalu office. According to the Mayor of Haapsalu, Urmas Sukles, Swedbank's activities give the impression that Haapsalu is a periphery. Branches closed in rural areas have been replaced by POGIs providing a limited number of services and larger settlements once or twice a month bank buses. Bank buses used to serve events, and they don't do that anymore. Private capital cannot, of course, be forced into anything, but from a regional policy point of view, we are genuinely concerned because such processes in our banking sector do not develop life in Estonia. We have some questions for the Prime Minister about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U5	Thank you. There's no more calls. I have adopted nine draft laws, their adoption is decided by the Bureau on the basis of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, and one inquiry which will be forwarded if it meets the requirements of the Home and Working Procedures Act. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 89 members of the Riigikogu are present, 12 are missing. Next, we need to confirm the week's agenda, no details. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the agenda for the 16th working week of the VII plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. The agenda is approved by 84 delegates, one against and one abstention. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U6	On the basis of the approved agenda, it is first planned to respond to requests for information. The first question to be asked on 16 April by Kadri Simson, Lauri Laas, Peeter Võsa, Aivar Riisalu, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Valeri Korbi, Vladimir Velmani, Enn Esemaa, Eldar Efendijev, Tarmo Tamme, Jüri Ratas, Kalev Kallo, Priit Toobali, Urbo Vaarmanni, Viktor Vassilyev, Yana Toomi and Mailis Reps, members of the Riigikogu, was a question about the sources of the promises of the new coalition. The inquiry has been submitted to Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. On behalf of the heirs, please perform Kadri Samson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U7	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! An inquiry will focus more specifically on the sustainability of the promises of the new coalition agreement. Perhaps, as in the case of several coalition agreements before, we will first hear the good news in public, and later the good news about coalition agreements will begin to appear quietly, too. In the case of the new coalition agreement, we initially learned that there was a promise to increase subsidies and, at the same time, a reduction in taxes, which would inevitably lead to additional pressure on the state budget. The cost of the coalition contract and the sources of cover have been calculated by the Ministry of Finance and it can be seen that the difference between the promises and the sources of cover is EUR 172 million. Unfortunately, when the coalition negotiations were conducted, it was not yet clear what the Estonian economy had become in the first quarter. The news that the Estonian economy fell in the first three months came later. However, it was not clear then either that, for many reasons, economic growth forecasts had to be adjusted at all. Next week we will find out what Eesti Pank is forecasting for this year and next year. However, we have seen from this table that there are many single sources of cover. These are either extraordinary dividends taken from public undertakings or a justification for additional savings as a result of better and more efficient financial management. At the same time, although one-off revenue measures have been put in place, many promises are those that will remain in the state budget not only this year, but also in the coming years. As a result, the heirs have a number of questions for the Prime Minister, starting with the reprogramming of support for farmers. There are certainly also questions about road maintenance, not to mention that one basic tax promise will further increase the inequality in Estonian society. I am not going to read out all six questions because, as you know, it is more convenient for the Prime Minister to come up here and answer it so that he himself brings in his answer with a question. Thanks for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U8	Mr. Prime Minister, you have an inquiry to answer. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U9	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I will respond to the request made on 16 April for information on the sources of the coalition's promises. Before going to specific questions and answers, however, I would point out that there were some factual errors in the speech of the representative of the heirs. Indeed, it cannot be said that good news was made public in the formation of a government union before the sources of cover. On the contrary, all the sources of cover have been known from the beginning. They have been available in many different formats and for some time now also on the government website in the form of a table. I refuse to accept that these sources of cover are necessarily bad news. I think that the increase in both alcohol and tobacco excise duty is good news and, to my knowledge, no parliamentary party has challenged it either. Nor is it true that the argument put forward by the heirs that there is a difference between promises and sources of cover of EUR 172 million. Firstly, these are not mere promises because the government has put together a work plan. The Government Union agreement does not contain promises, but concrete plans that will be implemented. Indeed, the total cost of the specific plans, which need to be covered, is 172 million. But we also need to know that we have more than 40 million more cover sources, which means that the Government Union as a whole will improve the budgetary position in the next year, but also in the following year. Let us now go to the questions you have asked and their answers. Question 1: 'A 2011 study by the Road Technology Centre showed a long-term cumulative underfunding of state roads of EUR 836 million. However, one of the sources of cover is the decoupling of fuel excise from road storage. How does this affect the state of the roads? " According to the current law, the planned volume of road maintenance funding in the state budget is only imputable to the forecast of the revenue of excise duties on fuel. The excise revenue collected during the financial year is not automatically directed towards road maintenance, but the expenditure calculated on the basis of § 16 (2) of the Road Act and allocated from the state budget for road maintenance is partly covered by the structural support of the European Union. The current system does not take into account the real need for investment in roads and does not ensure sufficient flexibility in the design of the state budget. The Government Coalition has promised to increase the flexibility of the state budget and reduce the link between revenue and specific items of expenditure. That is why it is proposed to separate the funding for road transport from the fuel excise duty. The need for road maintenance financing shall be assessed and quantified in the national budgetary strategy together with a plan for the financing of other tasks. The amounts to be allocated shall be fixed, as always, in the national budget for each year. The Road Administration will assess the precise investment plan and the state of the roads in its road plan on the basis of the volumes planned in the national budget strategy. Question two: '2014. In the national budget for 2008, the tax rate on special-purpose diesel and light fuel oil is set at EUR 55,1 million. The Government Coalition intends to replace preferential excise duty with a more precise compensation mechanism. This is expected to achieve savings of more than EUR 30 million. How does this compensation mechanism work and to whom it applies? ' Investment support is planned for households and public buildings for the replacement of space heaters and the reduction of the energy consumption of buildings. The scheme is intended to finance both the revenue from the sale of the CO2 quota and the structural support of the European Union. In the transport sector, the increase in fuel prices is intended to be met first by increasing the subsidies for public passenger transport. The government action programme sets the deadline for the development of compensatory mechanisms in the fourth quarter of this year. The third question: 'The flexibility of the state budget is intended to be increased through more efficient financial management. The resulting savings are estimated by the Ministry of Finance to be EUR 15 million. What are the concrete steps to achieve more effective financial management and where is this EUR 15 million currently being spent? ' From now on, the principles for allocating national co-financing of European Union support will change. Co-financing funds will be provided at the Ministry of Finance in the future, rather than being planned separately for the areas of border management. Payments shall be made on the basis of actual needs. This reduces the risk that if a project becomes entangled, part of the state budget will become unnecessarily booked. No project will be co-financed due to the change. Question 4: 'There are promises in the coalition agreement which will mean additional expenditure not only for next year, but also in the future. How can such expenditure be covered by one-off measures? "The coalition agreement has been fully taken into account in the Government's 'State Budget Strategy 2015-2018' approved at its meeting on 29 April. The financial plan for the following years includes, among other things, temporary revenue measures, such as additional dividends, as well as temporary expenditure measures, such as additional investments by Riigi Kinnisvara AS and the Presidency of the European Union. However, as a whole, they have no decisive impact either on the revenue side or on the cost side. The objective in the 2015-2018 National Budget Strategy is a structural surplus in all years except the following, in 2016, when revenue and expenditure for the structural balance should be equal. In addition, we anticipate an annual improvement in the nominal balance with a surplus of 0.5% in 2018 instead of 0.7% of the expected deficit for that year. Question 5: 'The tax rate will fall to 20% next year. This step will further increase the inequality of net income in society, as people with lower incomes will benefit from this step minimally, while people with higher incomes will benefit more often. Why, as Prime Minister, do you support the increase in net income inequality? 'The objective of the Coalition Agreement is to boost economic growth and increase employment by reducing the tax burden on labour. This increases the well-being of all residents, including those on low wages. We reduce income inequality, among other things, with an increase in tax-free income from EUR 144 per month to EUR 184 per month in 2018. Tax-free income increases every year, as required by the country's fiscal strategy. The increase in tax-free income is known to have a greater impact on the low wage earners. There is also a significant increase in both universal and needs-based child support, which is once again targeted at households with lower incomes. In order to improve the livelihood of the elderly, we raised pensions by an average of 5.8% this year, which is 240 euros per year, or 20 extra euros per month. Next year, in addition to an increase in pensions of at least the same size, an income tax-free parental pension is expected, and soon the government will present a draft on this matter to Parliament. Thus, there is expected to be an increase in net revenue and a reduction in inequality. Question 6: 'The farmers are concerned about the correction of the financing of rural payments and the taxation of the PRIA subsidies received from the state budget. How exactly is the financing of rural support to be adjusted? 'The financing of rural payments will change in the light of the European Union's agricultural fund regulation, which increased the maximum level of participation of the Fund, thereby reducing the minimum level of national co-financing. However, when drawing up the coalition agreement, it was decided to set the co-financing rate above the required minimum. These decisions led to a reduction in co-financing needs of EUR 72 million over the entire RDP period, including EUR 9.5 million in 2015. It should be taken into account that the total volume of the rural development plan for the new programming period is increasing compared to the previous one. The reduction in co-financing will be covered by funds for direct payments from the European Union which do not require co-financing. 'Estonian Rural Development Plan 2014 has been approved at the meeting of the Government of the Republic on 22 May, with the development plan for the next period paying more attention to R &amp; D and innovation. According to the development plan, the priority for food supply chain activities will increase, short supply chain and direct marketing activities will be increased, investment support will focus on long-term investments, more attention will be paid to co-operation and forms of cooperation, and a number of new specific environmental support will be added. In addition, ongoing environmental support will be increased, the environment and resource savings will be given more attention in the various measures and local development decisions will be left to the local level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U10	Members of the Riigikogu have questions to the Prime Minister about this question. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U11	Thank you. Prime Minister! The day after tomorrow, we will discuss in this Chamber the draft initiated by the Central Party Group, which will give the municipalities the assurance that they will be allocated at least 10% of the funds from excise duties on fuel for road maintenance. However, the government does not support this, on the contrary, your plan foresees, as one of the major sources of revenue, that the money going off the road will be decoupled from the fuel excise duty. So the municipal roads will continue to be maintained at the discretion of the government, and you will see that you are planning savings for next year. What is the next year's road maintenance money for local governments? This year it will be EUR 28.1 million, and by now you should be in the state budget for next year so far that you can tell us how much it will decrease next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U12	Thank you. There will be no reduction in road funding for local authorities next year. The Government of the Republic has explicitly stated in the agreement of the Government Union that the road money to be paid to local governments will not be reduced. Whether and how much it can be increased compared to this year, the budgetary options will show. It is not yet possible to process the state budget so that specific figures have been negotiated with ministers. As every year, this year's negotiations mainly take place in the summer. The budget is expected to reach the government in August and then it will also be possible to comment more closely.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U13	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U14	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! Looking at the current economic situation, including indicators that come from independent experts, as well as information about Eesti Pank in the coming weeks, which gives a rather negative shade to the Estonian economy, I wonder if you do not see the need to make adjustments to the costs of the near future. By quoting a government leader who has once said, 'If this is a crisis, I would like to live in a crisis like this', I ask: in the near future, do you see a tendency that we should actually make changes in costs?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U15	Thank you. If we need to make adjustments to achieve a structural balance, there is no reason to doubt that the government is ready to do so. However, current information on tax receipts does not indicate that taxes are received less than expected. During the economic downturn in the first quarter of this year, tax receipts were in fact much better than expected at this point in time than we have been receiving more than EUR 55 million from the five-month budget. As far as the various budget proposals are concerned, whenever I stand before Parliament and hear the proposals of you and your party's fellow Members, I am quite embarrassed, because we still have some 250 million proposals for expenditure that you have made, and for which no source of cover has been found. They have been presented without being written behind revenue and we certainly do not consider it possible or necessary to implement them. However, it can be assured that the promises and steps that the Government of the Republic is planning have a cover and a heap. And if the state of the economy requires us to change the budgetary position, we are ready to do so too. Of course, in times of economic downturn, even if the decline lasts only one quarter as it has been, it is best to increase reserves in the same quarter or should wait and monitor what is happening in the economy before taking any hasty steps.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U16	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U17	Thank you. Prime Minister! Next year, the government coalition plans to take EUR 25 million from road savings funds. In Latvia and Lithuania, efforts were made to detach road storage facilities and now we can see the level of roads there. In the future, the money for road maintenance will grow 1.5 times if you are not repaired in time. It is also known that we are losing at least 500 jobs. I'm asking if it's wise to start patching public budget holes instead of tea holes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U18	Thank you. I understand your wish to ask as much fiction as possible. But I really don't understand what state budget holes you're talking about when we've planned a structural surplus of the state budget for next year. As far as the financing of roads is concerned, I would not rule out that in some years more than 75% of the revenue from excise duties on fuels may be available to finance roads. But, in principle, I cannot consider it right that there is one area where, regardless of whether there are projects, there are arguments, or whether projects are affordable and reasonable for the state, there is always the same funding. All areas of education, social affairs, culture and the rest of the world are asking for money from the state budget, justifying the need for money. The Ministry of Finance is asking for comments on every minor nuance, why this is the amount that is why it is for this object. We haven't had that for tea so far. I think we all know a few examples of the recent past where we could have built the same object, the road object, much cheaper. Perhaps some of the adjacent branches, along with the very pompous intersections, would have been canceled, but the roads would have been fixed for a long time. In order for there to be a reason to consider each project one by one in the future in the area of roads, as in all other areas, and to decide whether this object is the most important item in the interests of the taxpayer, it is necessary that this area does not receive a predetermined amount each year. Every year, we also have to justify the projects and say what is the goal of where we want to go for the very money that goes on the roads, and how many roads we can fix for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U19	Thomas Tõniste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U20	Thank you. The objective of the nominal balance of the budget has been postponed for years in the budgetary strategy. There is a strong impression that you are trying to mislead the public with terms of nominal structural balance as if the government were continuing its conservative policy and nothing is changing. We have heard on several occasions that the government will not change its fiscal policy and will continue on a conservative path. At the same time, we know that the economic situation is bad, that external demand is falling, and that therefore growth may also be considerably lower than expected. My question is, is this kind of activity responsible?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U21	Thank you. Again, as I said before in reply to Sven Sester, I am forced to be embarrassed by the questions asked by the IRL. Because, at the same time as you are saying that the economic situation is bad, you are not saying how, in your opinion, fiscal policy should be changed because of the poor economic situation. In view of your practical proposals to date, they have actually increased the deficit. Such proposals may also be understood, even though they have, in my opinion, been made too much, to the tune of the 250 million proposals made by the IRL in the last two months. However, no sources of cover have been offered. But coming back to fiscal policy, there is no doubt that the government will continue to pursue the same conservative fiscal policy as the previous government. In fact, during the previous government, very conservative fiscal policies were firmly pursued. The current government will continue to do the same. Without the government's steps, the budget would be exactly structurally balanced next year, which is the forecast of the Ministry of Finance. The government has decided that we have little structural balance, so we are trying to move the budget into a structural surplus. I would not rule out that we will find further measures. But as of now, in the process of completing the country's budgetary strategy, we have already made decisions that will improve the government budget position by 0.2% of GDP. If necessary, we will find ways to improve the budget, but we will discuss it when there is a summer economic forecast on the basis of which we will draw up the state budget. And if the IRL had even one proposal that would improve the state budget of EUR 1 million, it would be a very pleasant change for your current budget deficit proposals. If there was one suggestion, even one million, I would be grateful to accept it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U22	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U23	Prime Minister! You can see that finances are still tight. This is demonstrated by these huge increases in indirect taxes and by unpleasant decisions for people. For example, an increase in gas excise duty, leading to an increase in heating costs and an increase in the price of goods and services. The costs of heating oilers increase by about 50%, the parental pension is delayed, road money was already mentioned. The reform of disabled people, of course, where disability pensions are replaced by disability benefits, which will be reduced depending on people's income. How do you still justify these cuts, tax increases and negative decisions for people?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U24	Thank you. You are deeply mistaken when you say that the work capacity reform reduces someone's income. On the contrary, in cooperation with the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People, the government has reached a solution that will not allow anyone's support to decrease. And for those whose benefits would be smaller under the new system, but this is a minority, the current amount will be retained in the form of disability pension. So nobody loses money in grants. At the same time, people with work capacity reform will have an additional opportunity to get paid for their work, to get paid properly. Thus, as a result of the work capacity reform, people will certainly be better able to cope. So your records are a little touchy. I hope that when the draft working capacity reform comes to the Committee on Social Affairs, you will be able to get a thorough look at it and make sure that it is a very important and good thing. Let it be said that there is quite a lot of money planned for this, both for the state budget and for the European Union. But I believe that the money we use to reform the ability to work goes to help people and, therefore, to improve their livelihood. Now for indirect taxes. The most pronounced indirect tax increase is the increase in excise duties on alcohol and tobacco. If you think it's harassing anyone, let it be your position. But I say that raising excise duties on alcohol and tobacco is a policy that our government is fully aware of. The increase in excise duties on alcohol and tobacco has the most significant impact on people's pockets due to the increase in indirect taxes. As regards the increase in gas excise duty, the effect on the gas bill remains within 1%. If you really believe that 1% of the increase in the gas bill is causing price increases in Estonia, then again, be that your interpretation. But it is important to know that gas is a fossil fuel that cannot be financially preferred compared to renewable fuels. So there is a very clear economic logic behind this, but it is the smallest tax change in monetary terms, both by looking at a person's wallet and by looking at the state. This is less than 2% of our sources of cover, so it does not have a significant impact on people's wallets either. As I said, its impact on the gas bill is within 1%, it is certainly less than the total inflation. As far as fuel oil is concerned, there has been a very long discussion on how to help people use more sustainable solutions, both from the point of view of nature and from the point of view of the wallet, than from the point of view of this very expensive fuel oil. Our proposal is that the government supports the exchange of boilers with investment support. This is a one-off cost for people, but future annual smaller heating bills will certainly outweigh it. In order for this one-off cost to be affordable for people, we are currently developing a compensation mechanism at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. This is especially for those who are now heating their homes with light fuel oil.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U25	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! A short question also allows for a brief answer. Will the Government of the Republic plan an increase in the state's loan burden by putting together next year's budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U27	In the coming years, we are planning to reduce the country's loan burden. But the debt burden must always be viewed in balance with reserves. Next year, both the loan burden and the reserves will decrease slightly. We know that nominally, the budget is in a small deficit. The largest part of our nominal minus is the cost of Tallinn trams, which we will have to bear next year, but there will also be the cost of street lighting in several cities. Why is it a nominal minus, but not a structural minus? As a result, revenue has already been received into the state budget and these costs will not be repeated in the coming years, i.e. they are not fixed costs but one-off expenses. Structurally speaking, the budget is well in surplus. And as I said earlier, this is the state of play of the current decisions, as of now, we are already in a surplus of 0.2% of GDP. Can we further increase the surplus during the state budget procedure? Time will tell. But there must also be a very good sense of balance in the pursuit of surplus. Everything depends very much on what is happening in the economy. When the economy is in a recession, planning a very large surplus in this light does not make sense and rather the balance needs to be shaken. One thing is certain: Estonia continues to be among the most conservative countries in Europe with its fiscal policy. There is also a reason for this, because other countries are very jealous that there is no chapter in our state budget that deals with the payment of old loans. In Ireland, for example, more than EUR 1600 is paid each year by the government alone as interest on loans for each Irish citizen. This is only a borrowing rate and does not include repayment of the loan. In Estonia, this amount is less than 19 euros per person. The difference is almost 100 times, and I think that in the future we must keep our loan burden low. We need to balance the volume of loans and reserves. This is important, on the one hand, so that we do not have to pay significant interest costs for every Estonian, but also so that we do not have much pressure, like in many other European countries, to take higher taxes from the citizens of our country. Fortunately, there is no pressure in Estonia, which is why we can gradually reduce the tax burden. I think this is the positive side of the matter from the point of view of the Estonian people.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U28	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U29	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! It happened that I had to participate in the work group on the first road law at the Ministry of Transport and Communications at the time, which was in 96 or 97 C.E. last century. When it was developed, it was always stressed that the user would pay. Those who use tea themselves pay for the construction and maintenance of tea through excise duty. But now that the excise duty is being used to patch holes, the ghost knows where, not on the roads, there's a situation where the user of the road pays, but the money doesn't make it to the roads. If you referred earlier to expensive objects that may not need to be done in a few years, they could have lower excise duties on fuel in a few years than there is. But in any case, the money paid by the user has to get to the roads, so I'll find it. Why do you think otherwise?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U30	Thank you. That is what I explained for quite a long time when I answered the previous question of the same quality. But I would also like to add that there is also a very strong aspect of environmental damage when driving fossil fuels. Secondly, in the second half of the 1990s, the details did not yet foresee what would happen in 2004 to invest EU money in Estonian roads. When we add these things up, we admit that we are in a somewhat different situation. But this situation, I believe, if you well recall 1996 and 1997, will certainly be much more positive by now. I, too, have watched with interest these debates that there could be a principle on specific roads in Estonia that the user would pay. I'm really curious where this debate is going. In itself, it makes some sense if, as a result, for example, fuel could be saved by more uniform traffic and wider roads. However, this is not a topical issue on the current agenda, so there is no reason to talk about it further.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U31	Andrus Ansip, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U32	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! In 2008, according to Eurostat data at the time, the lowest ever unemployment rate in Estonia was 3.8% in March and June. In 2007, Estonia put the largest amount of EEK 6.5 billion into its government reserves. Do you know a country in the European Union where the Prime Minister does not want to live in a crisis in which the country's unemployment rate is below 4% and the budget surplus is almost 3% of gross domestic product?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U33	Thank you for this very difficult question. There's not gonna be a country like this. But I also take the opportunity, of course, to congratulate the questioner, as former Prime Minister, for pursuing this very conservative fiscal policy. I guess that makes my life much easier as Prime Minister. We know that, especially in 2009, but also in 2010, there were, and there were, opportunities for the budget deficit to be much larger than it actually was. We also know from among our immediate neighbours the countries that exponentially increased the loan burden in 2009 and 2010 and now the loan that was taken in those countries in those years will have to be paid off in future generations. I have a much simpler task in this sense, that my government did not inherit large debts. And you can be pretty sure my government won't pass on big debts to the next one either.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U34	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U35	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! As one of the sources of cover, the coalition envisages an increase in the excise duty on natural gas. How much excise duty on natural gas is planned to increase? The head of the Estonian Gaas network services has talked about raising the excise duty rate by 20% per year over the next three years. Is there really going to be such a huge increase in excise duty? And if the excise duty on natural gas really increases to this extent, how can we explain it to the people whose home expenses are also rising? So do you have to announce the optimistic slogan 'Home expenses up! " to make the people feel wealthier and richer?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U36	Thank you, good questioner! If you had followed the debate here closely, you would have noticed that Marika Tuus had already asked the same question, and I was able to give an answer. But the answer was as follows: the impact of the increase in the excise duty on the gas bill will remain within the limit of 1%, which is much lower than the overall increase in the cost of living according to the current forecast. Thus, compared to other goods, gas is more likely to fall due to the increase in excise duty, especially given that the overall price increase is much faster than the increase in excise duty. So you add 1% to the gas bill. The 20% we are talking about is an increase in the specific excise component. But the excise component as a whole has only a few per cent effect on the gas bill. Unlike excise duty on tobacco, for example, where excise duty already accounts for more than two thirds of the price of cigarettes, the impact of excise duty on the gas bill is still very modest.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U37	Vladimir Velman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U38	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! I fully agree that vices must be taxed higher. One source of cover is the 10% increase in alcohol duty, which means that the total increase in alcohol duty will be 15% next year. What measures does the government intend to take to ensure that the additional excise duty still reaches the state budget, so that the result is not an increase in the share of the secret market?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U39	Thank you. That is a very constructive and constructive question. In fact, the main reason why governments have not tried to increase excise duties on tobacco and alcohol faster has been the risk of a secret market. When assessing this risk, we rely on the assessment of the Tax and Customs Board and on how much investment has been made in the technical capabilities of the Tax and Customs Board and on what changes have been made to the legislation. A few years ago, it was possible, quite legally, to bring much larger quantities of cigarettes across the Russian border than it is now, and now, legally, only two packages of cigarettes can be brought. It also significantly reduced the role of the secret market, the role of 'legal' or'semi-legal' secret market, where the transfer is legally carried over, but then it is illegally realised without paying excise duty. According to the Tax and Customs Board, the 15% increase in excise duty per year for both tobacco products and alcohol products is balanced against the risk of a secret market and does not increase the risk to the extent that we should give up the planned increase in excise duty. I very much hope that the Tax and Customs Board will continue to work hard to combat both tobacco and alcohol smuggling. I have to admit, they've done a lot of good work, haven't they? It's getting harder and harder to cross the eastern border with contraband.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U40	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U41	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! I would like to come back to the issue of excise duties on light fuel oils. The Coalition intends to lose preferential excise duty next year. What does that mean, say, to the landlords who use it? Home expenses are growing pretty fast. You said changing boilers was a super idea that would help the landlords. I don't think it's that easy to replace the whole system. There are many people who should do this, and this is where my question comes from. Why is the government determined to punish these people?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U42	Thank you. Heating with light fuel fuel is already one of the most expensive, if not the most expensive, and one of the most polluting heating options for the environment. It is very important for the state to contribute to the process of people replacing their boilers, in some cases even rebuilding boilers. This must be done in order to be able to burn other heating materials instead of light fuel oil in the same boiler, ideally preferring renewable energy sources. In some cases, a new boiler should be purchased if it is not technically possible to rebuild it. The result, believe me, in the medium term, is that people's costs are significantly reduced. We understand that such a one-time investment is costly. That is why we have proposed that the government should help with this one-off investment, help people to rebuild or replace their boilers, and in the future, it will be like cheaper heating costs will be paid as a bonus for this decision. As has already been said, light fuel oil is a very expensive solution and people are looking carefully for ways to switch to other types of heating.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U43	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U44	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! My question is about local roads. But not in general, but in particular the sector. As you know, some local roads are used at international level because they are the means of border crossings. We have already asked different ministers several times in this Chamber how to take care of these roads in the future. These roads have a particularly heavy burden and costs are also two- and three-fold, if you count them all. So far, all the ministers have said that yes, a serious question, but everything depends on the budget, on which we can answer. Can you tell me if there is an increase in state support this year? And is there money in the budget for the coming year that will allow them to keep you normal?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U45	Thank you. When you say 'national road' and 'cross-border', I assume you mean, for example, the city of Narva, where the road in Tallinn really is. And it is also true what you have heard from other ministers that the discussion of the government's road plan is planned in the near future. But as far as the particular Narva road you are referring to is concerned, at least in part it will get a new cover because there is currently a very large construction of sewerage routes in Narva, with which, of course, there will also be a new asphalt cover. True, we recently discussed with the mayor of Narva the rules according to which Narva, for some reason, is that when the road is dug up and the sewerage route is put under it, only part of the road can be renovated, not all the way. It seems a little weird to me. If you're gonna fix it anyway, it makes sense to fix the road as a whole. But it is such a detailed question that it must certainly be discussed again within the framework of the road map. So much positive, however, is that tens of millions of euros, which go to offer cleaner water to the inhabitants of Narva, actually contribute to the installation of a new street cover, so that there is still a positive synergy.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U46	Lauri Laasi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U47	Thank you. Prime Minister! At the same time as the price of gas rises in Estonia as a result of the increase in excise duty, the Lithuanian people received such positive news that, as of 1 July, the price of gas for their domestic customers will fall by 20%. Why don't you explain how this kind of thing is possible in basically the same region as us? If you can't explain, why don't you call your Lithuanian colleague and ask him for advice on how to stand up to the people when it's done in our country?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U48	Thank you. It's always smart before you start comparing to other countries to look at both the base level and the overall picture. Perhaps it is quite interesting for you to know that the gas networks of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania are quite well connected. We also consume gas in Estonia, coming from Latvia, Incukalns. True, it reaches Latvia from Russia, but our gas networks are quite well connected. When it comes to what can be a sustainable way of reducing the price of gas or rather of controlling the price, one option is certainly to build even better connections. Today, the three of us are, in a sense, an energy island with Latvia and Lithuania. Our plan is to connect the gas pipeline to Finland and connect the Estonian, Latvian and Lithuanian markets to the Finnish market. I, by the way, communicate very closely with the Lithuanian Prime Minister, and especially on gas issues, but also on train issues, as you can imagine. Lithuania is planning to build a gas pipeline between Lithuania and Poland. We recently discussed this project with the Lithuanian Prime Minister and last week also with Günther Oettinger, who is known to be the European Commissioner for Energy. I am pleased that the gas connection projects that our region of Estonia and Lithuania together carries in support of each other's projects also have very strong support from the European Commission. And in terms of sustainability, price control, these are the right steps. No other step with connections on an alternative scale can provide us with confidence.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U49	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U50	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! You mentioned that the state is coming to help people replace the boiler. What exactly does that mean? Are all those who wish to receive a new boiler with the support of the state, or is there a quota? What's it supposed to look like?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U51	Thank you. I answered the same question a while ago, but I understand that you were not in the Chamber at that moment, so I will try to repeat briefly. We plan to develop a compensation mechanism for the fourth quarter at the latest. Anyone wishing to rebuild or replace a boiler for light fuel oil in their home would receive investment support. We will use both the support of foreign funds and, most likely, the Estonian taxpayer's money. One-off investment support helps people to replace the boiler, but as a result, they have cheaper heating bills. It is known that light fuel oil is already a very expensive form of heating, and many are looking for a way to replace it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U52	Thank you. No further questions, I'm opening negotiations. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U53	Ladies and gentlemen, I find it rather sad that our fresh Prime Minister did not answer most of the questions. Let us start with the last one, where my colleague, Mrs Toom, asked whether it was certain that all people who would be faced with an increase in home expenses would be given help to replace the boiler. We didn't get an answer. There have been such support programmes before, that only housing associations who made an application before midnight receive support and most of them are still missing. This was an example of an apartment renovation program. There are also support programmes that help with only 10%, which means that it is still too expensive for a large number of homeowners and, despite the increase in heating costs at home, these one-off costs are not incurred. But this chair of speech forced me to come to the Prime Minister's Bravour, which he already stated in the first sentences that the inquisitors had misinformation. That is, the good news of the coalition agreement came first and then bad news, or tax increases and cuts. But that's just the way it was, but the inquisitors weren't wrong. The coalition agreement was signed on 20 March, but the table on which it will be covered came only three weeks later, which was published by the Government of the Republic press service on 10 April. So far, these shields were pretty well-swimmed. The Prime Minister also said that the structural surplus is guaranteed. Well, do what you're doing, but the Governor of Eesti Pank didn't seem so firm today. Rather, in terms of financial terms, it seems that if the position is not improved, the structural surplus tends to turn into a deficit. Improving the position in turn will certainly mean either raising taxes or some cuts that are still not wanted to talk about today. But let's talk about this table that was developed to cover the good promises of the coalition agreement. First of all, there is one moral question, the desire to earn from vices, the return from vices, the increase in alcohol excise duty, the increase in tobacco excise duty, and the right of Estonian Loto to advertise itself. Whenever public expenditure on such matters is covered, people are no longer warned about the negative effects of smoking, alcohol consumption or gambling. Rather, you are commended to see how good you are, to help us pay for one or another of the services required by the country. The second source of cover is farmers. There has been talk here about replacing preferential excise duty on specially labelled fuel with some kind of unknown compensation mechanism. The correction of the financing of rural support is also intended to generate 9.5 million, not to mention the introduction of a tax on PRIA subsidies from the state budget, from which 1.5 million are intended to be paid to the state budget. There is also concern that many revenues will be one-off, better financial management, or purely one-off measures, or even cost deferrals for future periods. Why does that worry? Because it may be a near-functioning solution against the promises of the current government coalition agreement, but it only pushes the commitment to the next government. Finally. The current government is not even talking about lowering home expenses; now it is being honestly and solemnly said that the increase in home costs is one of the goals. More specifically, taxation of fuel oil and natural gas, which obviously means an increase in domestic costs for many Estonian households where the boiler has built in this way. Any many words of rejection do not really help to hide what is written in black in white. So I think that such discussions in the Riigikogu hall will only be useful. It is also helpful to have good news in addition to the answers to the issues that would be more open to silence. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U54	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U55	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! I think that the true story, today's and future similar debates, is reasonable in that sense that it gives us the opportunity to exchange ideas and also to discuss plans for the future. Especially given that the decisions taken in this Chamber, especially those relating to the state budget, will affect us all in the future. On the one hand, possible interest payments, which can be accurately calculated for every person, and on which you have shown that Ireland and I have a hundred times the difference. On the other hand, the decisions we make here during the state budget procedure and during the implementation of the promises also give us a direction of movement. And if we're talking about the sources of cover in this question, I realize that the next question of questioning is possible deficits, then I'll try to talk in a few words about the sources of cover that you've brought out to the public. I am of the opinion that, although you claim that your promises and sources of cover went hand in hand, that was not the case. In fact, in my opinion, you started out after you made promises, you could say panicked about looking for the sources of cover. It actually lasted weeks after the promises were made. I understand the last details were recent, just a few weeks ago, when the Treasury Department officials were doing calculations. But if you look at what your sources of cover are, they raise a lot of questions. Let us look at these sources of cover. When we are talking about excise increases, you yourself said from here on the speaker's desk that this is a sensible decision, and it gives more money. I also think that taxation of vices is reasonable in nature. But the question is, what is your purpose? For example, you have decided to increase excise duty on tobacco, not from a public health point of view, but purely from a monetary policy point of view. You will not make tobacco excises dependent on 1 January 2015, but on 2016. Why are you doing this? Only because you expect tobacco companies to buy more goods in warehouses in the past. This means, however, that in this case potential State budget standard revenue will fall to 2015. I am not criticising you, but I want to tell you, good Prime Minister, that in this case your decisions will not be based on public health, but on a revenue-raising scheme for a specific year in the state budget. If I look at the possibilities of finding the sources of cover that you have offered, which includes tens of millions of euros, what do I see? For example, there is better financial management here, as a sum you have brought 15 million. I don't know exactly what you mean by that. You say it's possible to manage ministries better. Time-out of expenses €23 million. Well, you're saying, good opposition, bring in some drafts that can improve positions. I think that we will see this during the budgetary procedure. If you want the opposition to bring you ideas for a general 'cost delay' and put 25 or 17 million instead of 23, I don't think that's right. You have marked one-off measures of 17 million, an adjustment to the financing of rural payments of 10 million. Once again, he's suspicious and he's asking questions. What goals does this serve? The advertising revenues of Estonian Loto are also written here, which is also not right. Is it justified to find such measures in a situation where you really want a soft distinction between gambling and playing Estonian Loto? These are questions that are in the air and which I do not think have been resolved. I think such discussions could continue in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U56	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U57	Mr President! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, It is not a fictional expression that 25 million tea-saving money is taken from the state budget and that it is used to patch holes in the state budget. If this money was not needed in the state budget, this road plan should also be reviewed. The result is now that the road maintenance plan approved by the Ministry cannot be completed, with a minimum of 500 people out of work and in the future the road repair will be 1.5 times more expensive than if it were done on time. The claim that the current state of Estonian roads is good and that we are unable to use or manage road money is, in my opinion, amazing to listen. It is now said that large overpasses and large traffic hubs were built in their time and no longer used. As I recall, the Reform Party was in government when these objects were built. After all, I find it a little strange to blame yourself for it. I think that if the government has nothing to do with road savings money, it could be given to the municipalities, because the municipalities hold 41% of the total volume of roads in Estonia. As I recall, only EUR 27 million were allocated to local authorities this year, which is 1.2 million less than last year. Therefore, this excess money could have been given to the municipalities. I think they could have used it rationally and rationally. I don't think there's any reason for the government to be optimistic. As we read the article by Sõerdi, the biggest financial specialist in the Reform Party today, we can see that the real situation is sad. In Latvia, three times more jobs were created last year than in Estonia, growth in Latvia was 2.8%, and in Estonia 1.2%. I think one reason is that, unlike Latvia and Lithuania, there has been no administrative reform in Estonia. In Latvia, the number of municipalities was reduced five times. Estonia is the only country in Europe that is trying to reform self-government in such a way that everything should take place on a voluntary basis. I don't think that's gonna work. I would remind you that in Latvia, corporate income tax is 5% and there is no possibility that companies will transfer their profits to foreign parent companies. It works very well. Estonia is the only country in Europe to take advantage of this exceptional opportunity. The recent Supreme Court ruling actually gave the green tea, i.e. Estonia may borrow the money and nothing will happen, because the tax administration had to pay an additional EUR 1.5 million fine for holding Nordea Pank's money. So I think that the government should review its policy and think about how reforms can be organised, whether it be an administrative reform, a state reform or a tax reform. Just hope everything works out, there's no point. I think that during this government we have much more populism than in the previous Prime Minister's term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U58	Andrus Ansip, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U59	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The budget holes brought me here to the speaker's desk. Today, there are several repeatedly cursed budget holes in this Chamber, to which something good must be sacrificed. As a former prime minister, I don't know bad holes to which something good should be sacrificed. For me, the gaps in the budget mean, above all, teachers' salaries, pensions, child support and other things very much needed for the people. When I drive from Tartu to Tallinn or from Tallinn to Tartu, I have to pass some of this road between the planks. Beautiful Estonia has been placed somewhere behind the plank. Yesterday, for the first time in my life, I went down this magnificent Mäo traffic junction to Mäo Statoil's gas station. Gave it an adventure. So it becomes clear that in some years, while I was a prime minister, the roads have been used in many years, in fact, while I was still well-groomed on the highway Mäo. Today, it has been complained in this Chamber that money will be spent at the discretion of the government, that the spending rate will no longer be fixed. I would like to state that not only according to the government, but also according to the Riigikogu. The problem with the Estonian state budget is excessive rigidity rather than flexibility. The step we are taking now is, in my view, a step towards increasing flexibility. Latvia and Lithuania have been commended here today, and I also take praise from them. However, when it comes to Latvia's unemployment or Lithuania's unemployment and its rapid decline, it has to be said that they still have plenty of room for improvement. I have before me Eurostat statistics on unemployment in March. This shows that Estonia, with its unemployment rate, is well below the European Union average, both Latvia and Lithuania, unfortunately with their unemployment rate above the European Union average. I cannot see the link between administrative reform and unemployment in the case of Latvia and Lithuania. When looking for the link between administrative reform and unemployment, it should be said that it went badly, as unemployment is much higher there than in Estonia. However, for me, authoritative experts have expressed the opinion that the very modest credibility of the state's institutions in Latvia and Lithuania compared to Estonia is partly explained by the fact that the state has become very distant for people because of the administrative reform that has lost the rural areas that are close to people. It would be worth looking at the indicators of the credibility of the national institutions of the Eurobarometer and also thinking about the reasons for these problems. And the price of gas. Once, when we introduced gas excises in Estonia, my government received a lot of criticism. It was found that by adding excise duties, the government would increase the price of gas at an already crazy rate. In fact, as we all know, under the conditions of the free market economy, the seller of the goods is charging the maximum price that the buyer is willing to pay for the goods. The only question is whether the country wants to participate in this extremely high gas price, or whether it offers all the profits to Gazprom. The governments that I led fought for the country to get a share of the gas price. It seems to me that the fight is now being fought for Gazprom's profits to increase. It should be said that Lithuania has for a long time paid a much higher price for natural gas than Estonia and Latvia. It is claimed that the current slight decrease in gas prices in Lithuania should also compensate for the potential claims of the Lithuanian State against Gazprom. So no altruism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U60	The Prime Minister is entitled to speak before the negotiations are concluded. Do you have a wish? Please, Javier Clothes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U61	Very Honourable Riigikogu! I have been a Member for a very long time before taking up the office of Head of Government, and I am therefore very well able to appreciate the parliamentary debate and Parliament's criticism. Although I like that both opposition parties, both the IRL and the Centre Party, have chosen the same subject as the government's criticism, even if it is very hard to exert itself, not to understand what is at the heart of your criticism. Are there criticisms that government agreements will improve the budgetary balance by EUR 76.6 million next year and thus the sustainability of public finances? Or is it at the heart of the criticism that we are raising child support and lowering labour taxes and that this is too costly for the state? Is that what you're accusing us of? Or is the complaint that our intended sources of coverage are true, we have foreseen them with a margin, more than the costs, are entirely wrong? The reproach comes in turns from both the left and the right, but unfortunately they go against each other. As has been said, I would very much like to have a substantive debate in Parliament. I also like to participate in the parliamentary debate as Prime Minister. But believe me, it would be much more helpful for us to work together if the message that comes from you were consistent and if you would say what your proposal is then. Is this an increase in the coverage of the state budget and an improvement in the surplus? Or are you suggesting more spending? Maybe we should cancel some of the covers, just like we heard from here. Both on the left and on the right are slightly similar to each other, but at the same time conflicting arguments. Go get what the government needs to build on. One is clear from the beginning, every step the government has planned has been a source of cover. I don't think anyone's gonna challenge that. At the first press conference held by the government after the government took office, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi read these sources of cover. Long before written inquiries by the IRL and the Centre Party Group were submitted, a comprehensive overview of the cost of proposals and coverage sources was published on the website of the Government of the Republic. But you still say that you have questions about one proposal or another, and you don't understand. Once you criticise the fact that part of the parental pension is postponed, you say again that you do not understand what the 23 million there is, which is being postponed. Again, just a quarter of an hour ago, you criticised the same subject. With regard to improving financial management for the amount of 15 million, I have already responded today. Please listen to the parliamentary debate and listen also to what the Prime Minister has to say. Only then will we really be able to discuss meaningfully whether the government should further improve the budgetary position or whether some of the sources of cover should be excluded. It is not possible to do both at the same time. Choose the criticism you want to direct towards the government!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U62	I will close this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U63	The next question to be discussed is the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Kaia Iva, Annely Akkermanni, Sven Sesteri, Aivar Koka, Andrus Saare, Siim Kiisler, Lauri Vahtre, Toomas Tõniste and Urmas Reinsalu on 23 April for the forecast deficit of the state budget (No 402). Sven Sester takes the floor on behalf of the heirs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U64	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! Let's go to the next topic, which basically ties in with the previous discussion that was just here. If we spoke earlier about the sources of cover, then now it would go in depth to the state budget itself, mainly the expected deficit and, consequently, the possible increase in reserves or the debt burden. In particular, on 23 April, we submitted to you an inquiry, where we say, on the basis of public sources of information, and also on the basis of the statement made by the Minister of Finance, that in the coming years, until 2017, 569 million euros of reserves are to be taken from the reserves, according to promises and forecasts. I would point out here that in the coalition of the IRL and Reform Party, we reached a situation where at the end of last year there were EUR 1.4 billion in reserves, i.e. more money than in 2007 before the crisis. It has to be said that during the crisis, reserves decreased. Looking also at the spring forecasts that were recently published, it also became clear that revenue losses would be expected both in 2014 and 2015. On the basis of the above, our questions will come as well. At the moment we asked you, April 23rd, we didn't have any more information yet. In fact, on 6 May, Eesti Pank told the Committee on Monetary Affairs very clearly that the improvement of previously established budgetary positions did not want to make any progress at all, and stated that the structural balance is now the most relaxed objective that the state can take on at all. Therefore, our goal should be not only a structural balance surplus, but also a nominal balance, which you have now set out to achieve by 2017. Isn't that a bit of a loosening of fiscal policy? Later, on 17 May, Deputy Governor of Eesti Pank Ülo Kaasik told Ärieht very clearly that the development indicators of the Estonian economy are so controversial in the last quarters and make it difficult to assess the impact of the entire economic cycle. Eesti Pank has repeatedly emphasised that in difficult situations, besides structural balance indicators, nominal indicators need to be improved. The management of Eesti Pank as a whole notes that the current relatively rapid increase in expenditure, based on expectations of income growth, is dangerous. The latest information came today when the Governor of Eesti Pank was in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and said that a new economic forecast for Eesti Pank will be published next week. He didn't tell me exactly what the numbers were, because he doesn't want to get ahead of things. However, the President stated in the Committee on Monetary Affairs that Eesti Pank's forecast is clearly pessimistic. He said that if we do not take into account any new proposals to improve budgetary positions, we would be threatened by a structural deficit in the state budget. We are not talking about nominal, because we are already in a negative position and in the coming years. In the light of the foregoing, we have a number of questions which I am not going to quote here, as they have already been forwarded to you before. But the point of the questions is that you also give us an overview of how you intend to cover this deficit. Do you even see a deficit, mostly nominal? How do you consider it possible to cover these deficits, and is it meaningful and sustainable to have such a monetary policy course that we are essentially living beyond our means? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U65	The inquiry is answered by Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U66	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will respond to your inquiry on 23 April on the forecast deficit of the state budget. The first question: 'What will the deficit of the state budget be like in 2014?2017. In 2005, in view of the Ministry of Finance's spring economic forecast and the forecast of revenue for the state budget and the expenditure and revenue planned in the coalition agreement that underpins the government's activities? ' The government's budgetary policy objectives are recorded each year in the country's budget strategy. As usual, this year's strategy was adopted at the end of April, almost the same time that you submitted your inquiry. I would point out that the objectives set out in the budgetary strategy are far more ambitious than the forecast you are referring to all the time. Thus, the current Government of the Republic has already taken decisions that improve the budgetary position compared to the forecast. Therefore, the part of your question concerning the basis of forecasts is already somewhat outdated information, as the actual situation is considerably better. But let's re-examine these figures in detail. According to the new State Budget Act, which entered into force this spring, the state budget must be drawn up in such a way that the structural balance of the government sector is at least balanced. This is the goal set by Estonia. If you say that structural balance is the easiest possible goal, then how can I say it now politely... How can it be that most countries of the European Union do not actually fulfil this objective? Consequently, this is still not the most relaxed possible objective. However, Estonia has set this as the most relaxed possible goal for itself, because we want to be very conservative about the state's finances, and that is why we aim not at structural balance but at structural surpluses. And 'State Budget Strategy 2015-2018' has set a more ambitious target than structural balance. The planned structural surplus for 2015, 2017 and 2018 is 0.2% of GDP. The general government's nominal balance is in deficit until 2016, but it will fall from year to year. I would stress that next year the nominal deficit will be lower than this year. So when you talk about the fact that the fiscal policy of the country is getting looser, there is no way that it can be true, because we also have to look at this year's budget, which has been made at a time when the IRL was in the government. Who wants to remember the old thing, but there have also been government leaders who have been part of the Fatherland League in their time. And when you look at the budgets made in their time, you don't know if any of them have been nominally balanced. It must be acknowledged that it would be very difficult to find such a budget at that time. But once again, no more of this old thing. As has been said, the nominal government balance is in deficit, which will decrease until 2016, mainly due to the effects of the economic cycle and temporary factors. We've said it many times from this remote control. The additional contributions to the second pension pillar, which are temporary, will last until 2017, are nominally negative, but not structurally, because they are temporary. We have also talked several times about the temporary deterioration of the position of trams acquired in Tallinn. Since 2017, the government budget balance has also returned to a nominal surplus. The second question: 'Please list the plans, agreements and measures intended to reduce the deficit of the state budget that reduces the reserve by EUR 569 million, as forecast by the Minister of Finance, and indicate the expected financial impact of each measure, i.e. what amount does the proposed measure reduce the deficit of the state budget? ' Dear heirs, I submitted the requested list at a press conference on 10 April, two weeks before you submitted your inquiry. The relevant table, which I also sent to the heirs by e-mail, has been on the government's website since the same day. I would point out that this deficit does not take account of the steps taken by the government. Compared to the forecasts of the Ministry of Finance, the fiscal strategy adopted by the Government of the Republic on 29 April significantly improves the budgetary position. Coalition agreements all together cost EUR 156,2 million according to the national budget strategy and revenue is planned at EUR 232.8 million. In total, the agreements improved the position by EUR 76.6 million. Question 3: "Are the people of Estonia able to be sure, in the light of the foregoing, that your government will not direct its coalition agreement into a new course of monetary policy for the Estonian state, the essence of which is living in debt? ' I would like to emphasise once again that all the revenue and expenditure of the coalition agreement has been taken into account in the new national budget strategy and, ultimately, the budgetary position improved by EUR 76.6 million. It did not deteriorate, as you are always trying to make a mistake in your questions. While, according to recent data, Estonia's general government debt ratio is 10% of GDP, by the end of 2018, we expect it to fall to 79% of GDP. This is also the exact answer to the question put by Priit Toobal in the course of his previous inquiry. The general government debt ratio is planned to decrease from year to year. The people of Estonia can be sure that one of the cornerstones of our economic policy is and will remain sound public finances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U67	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, there are also questions for you. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U68	Thank you. Prime Minister! I am just reading the news where Minister Padar of Agriculture promised Elvas the Grand Assembly of the Estonian Farmers' Association to find at least 20 million euros next year for farmers to restore direct payments. The Minister of Finance has said that one of the great promises made by the Social Democrats, the children's benefits were paid in and not even discussed. Can it be said, then, that because of social democrats' forced child support, farmers are now losing 20 million additional payments?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U69	Thank you. Honourable heirs and a good questioner! I would point out that once again, questions speak against each other. On the one hand, you complain that we do not find enough sources of cover and that government spending is too high, although we are actually improving the budgetary position. Now you come up with a new complaint that we will not make another additional cost of EUR 20 million. I believe that Estonian farmers agree with me when I say that the victory they receive from larger agricultural subsidies and even better rural development programmes is much greater than the opportunities we could get from the additional budget allocations. The fact that the previous government of the Republic of Estonia reached the biggest breakthrough in the negotiations in the budget period in Brussels, namely in the area of agricultural subsidies, is very well known to all farmers. I think they appreciate the job.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U70	Thomas Tõniste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U71	Thank you. I'm glad to see you've learned a lot about your answer from Edgar Savisaar. Half your answer goes not to content, but to how to give examples of what someone has once said and what is bad. I don't want us to hear answers here all the time about the decisions of the depression. They cannot be brought back to the present time, where there is a completely different situation. But my question is about lowering the tax rate. Many of us have mentioned in our speeches that a 1% reduction in the tax rate is perhaps not the most appropriate step, and without it we would have EUR 70 million in the budget, which could be used more wisely at the moment. Aren't those your own words that we've come up with this as a source of revenue?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U72	Thank you. I don't know who you're learning this labelling from, but let's keep it. It is not necessary, either on the one hand or on the other, that we remain polite and respectful to each other in this Chamber. The reduction in income tax has a very positive impact on the Estonian economy and, in fact, on the receipts of the state budget. The impact of the reduction in income tax and labour taxes at all is far greater than the one-year reduction in the amount received by the state budget. In fact, if we lower taxes on labour, we will contribute to economic growth and will ultimately receive more money into the budget. But more importantly, people's income, wages, pensions and social benefits are therefore higher. The economic climate in Estonia must continue to be attractive. We constantly see in both regional and wider competition that other countries are also looking for ways to make their tax environment more similar to that of Estonia. We, too, do not have to stay here, but to further develop our tax environment. The reduction of labour taxes is a very large part of the development of the Estonian tax environment. I have met with a very, very large number of entrepreneurs in just over two months of Prime Minister's office. All of them say that lowering labour taxes is the right and necessary direction. I believe that the same is true of those who actually have more money due to the reduction in labour taxes. If you say that the IRL proposal is to give up the reduction in labour taxes and to make other expenses on this, then I cannot accept this proposal. But at least this is your first honest proposal that will really improve the revenue from the state budget in just a short time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U73	Andrus Ansip, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U74	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! It is known that the tax receipts for the first five months of this year have been very good, the best in the last ten years. If we have now received 39.2% of the planned budget, the ten-year average is 37.6%. Knowing that wage growth was 7% in the first quarter, retail sales increased 8% in April and growth was 1.9% in Statistics Estonia's initial estimates, my question is this: is this information sufficient to draw any conclusions on a possible increase in the budget gap?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U75	This 55 million, which has been more than the budget foreseen in five months, is around 0.3% of GDP. And although it may not be methodically correct to do this kind of adjustment, it can be said that in the first half of the year, our budgetary position, by about 0.3% of GDP in five months, is considerably better than we planned in the budget. It is therefore an obvious exaggeration to talk about budget holes in a very pessimistic tone. At the same time, of course, I am also concerned about the trends in the economy. As I have said before in this Chamber, in the first quarter, there were both one-off reasons for the recession, which we do not have to worry about very much, as well as the aspects that make it more worrying. In particular, it concerns things that depend very little on us, such as the performance of the Finnish economy, the performance of the Swedish economy, and the performance of the Russian economy. These are things worth paying attention to. And, of course, the better our main trading partners do, the better we do. But in German, there is a nice saying that there is no once or how it can be translated politely. I wouldn't have to jump to conclusions from one quarter's negative result either way. Let's see what the next blocks are. I would not be surprised if the initial data for the first quarter, for the reasons you referred to, were that the tax receipts had been very good, that unemployment had actually decreased very quickly at the same time, even later. This has happened before, too, and therefore it would be very foolish to panic enormously about this one-block news. I don't care if you have to be worried.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U76	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U77	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! It's good to debate with you that at some point you're setting up a thesis, then you put it in someone else's mouth, and you're finally gonna push it over. The best example of this was when you said in your opponents to Mr Tõniste's question that you can see that there has now been a proposal on labour taxes and it is very good that there is a first proposal. I didn't hear Thomas Tõniste propose that. But that's it. Otherwise, we will stick to this for a long time, and in the end you may only answer the first part of my question as usual. Let me ask you a specific question. As we are talking about a budget deficit, the specific question is: will we live beyond our capabilities in the coming years, I mean 2015 and 2016? I'll explain what I mean by that. Will there be a situation in the coming years where our revenues are below costs, perhaps the other way around, where our costs exceed revenues?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U78	Thank you. If it wasn't Mr Tõniste's proposal, I really misunderstood him. But if so, so far no proposals have come from the IRL to improve the budgetary balance. [[Interjections. The manager's ringing the bell.]] I was hoping one of the proposals had been received from the IRL. But the joke is, in response to the other half, maybe the explanation of the budgetary balance of your own party partner, the previous government minister, is the best one. In fact, one day in a month, its budget is in huge surplus, it's a payday, but all the rest of the days, the budget tends to be in big trouble. Now, why don't you go get it, whether it's a total out-of-power or an adequate living? But trying to come to the answer to this question quite seriously, then no, we will not survive our abilities in Estonia. Estonia's fiscal policy is most conservative throughout the European Union. If it's living beyond power, then the question is, what does everyone else do? We maintain a structural balance, even a surplus. We know how to ensure that long-term expenditure is balanced with long-term revenues and short-term ones. That is why we are monitoring the structural balance. Even nominally, we can't say we're going through our powers. Even in the previous year, we have a large amount of money in order to buy new trams in Tallinn, although as a citizen I am a little worried about it, because the construction of the tram route doesn't seem to run in any way, but it does, and the money we have received earlier is stored. If we now adopt this tram money next year, it will be like a minus in this particular year, but actually we know that we will take the money from the place where we have put it as an earmarked income in the past. No, it's not too much! The most accurate illustration of living beyond power is the structural balance. It is a little harder to understand than a cash-based approach, but I believe that everyone in this Chamber understands why it is necessary to monitor the structural balance. Because all long-term income and long-term expenditure, as well as short-term income and short-term expenditure, would be balanced.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U79	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U80	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! Listening to the former Prime Minister and you, it looks like we're doing pretty well. But I remember the first page of Äripäev, where the Estonian economy was written. There was talk of a red light and a fall in GDP of 1.9% in the first quarter, which was a pretty ugly example. Since the second month of the second quarter has already ended, I have a question for you. What about the second quarter?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U81	Thank you. The second quarter is still in progress. I'm sure it would be premature to tell you what the results are for the second quarter. Even the results of the first quarter, which Äripäev tried to paint in very black colors, are preliminary. As we know, while unemployment decreased, tax receipts improved. It should not be taken so black and white, but it must also try to see behind the figures. In fact, my economic advisor, Maris Lauri, has also tried to explain very balanced reasons in Äripäev. Whenever a nominal figure is involved, it is also worth delving into the causes. The Estonian economy was very likely to grow nominally in the first quarter. In order to monitor real growth accurately, you also need to know what the detonator is. There is also a great deal of estimation among the deflector, so it cannot always be taken as absolute truth. But let's wait for more details, and we'll probably get a better idea. I personally believe and hope that the second quarter will be more positive than the first. But not because I would somehow like to be an economic forecaster, but purely because I look at other things that work in the economy alongside GDP growth. For example, what were the negative effects and one-off effects of the first quarter? We know that there was one BLRT ship supply, and we also know that energy production decreased very rapidly. If you cancel them out, that's why the second quarter should look better. But let's not get ahead of ourselves. It is always worth being prepared to be negative in order to enjoy together in the event of more positive developments.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U82	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U83	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! I think that the Prime Minister should also be able to respond in a shorter and more concrete way. But I ask if the coalition will not discuss budget issues properly, that Ivari Padar himself put forward such a proposal. And what's with the sharp contradictions in the coalition?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U84	Yeah, it does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U85	Thank you! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Riigikogu speech chair Andrus Ansip, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U86	Mr President, good Riigikogu! Sven, your turn is coming! Unlike the Prime Minister, I do not have a very strong belief in structural balance. There's something real in the cash register. In 2007, if more than 6.5 billion kroons were left, it was actually placed in the government reserves of 6.5 billion kroons. The thing about structural balance is that it's not until after a while that you know exactly how big the balance was. So it's a number that describes the past. The assessment of the structural balance is also beautifully difficult in the present, and now the assessment of structural balance is beautifully difficult. When I was Prime Minister, we had rather big disputes with the European Commission. The European Commission argued that our structural balance is 0.7% worse because we have much less potential due to the low unemployment rate than we have evaluated ourselves. Time passed and it became clear that the Government of the Republic was right, and the European Commission was wrong. I would argue that such differences of opinion regarding the structural balance of future periods will always persist. Only with regard to the past can we be more or less certain that the balance was what Statistics Estonia claims in years' time. We have also had enough problems with nominal balance and economic growth. I wouldn't be very fond of this 1.9% recession in the first quarter because it comes from very superficial information. We'll wait until the day after tomorrow, then we'll get better and more accurate data. I do not rule out that the day after tomorrow's data coincides with the initial flash estimate, but there are some indicators in the economy that clearly contradict the claimed recession in the first quarter. Taxes have been received much better than in the last ten years. And the explanation may indeed be that the factors or areas that affected the decline were not labour-intensive and wages increased where labour intensity was higher. But there's no good explanation for this first quarter drop. I am very much a believer in statistics myself, I respect the staff of Statistics Estonia, but just to determine my location, let the results of the 2013 regular review, the results of the regular review of gross domestic product for the second quarter of 2011. Indeed, the revision has shown that economic growth was 11.7% and not less than 7%, as was the first assessment ever made. And this same review alone has corrected previous economic growth by +3.4%. So those who draw up the budget and carry out economic analyses must take utmost criticism into all possible parameters, even if they come from the most authoritative sources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U87	Thank you. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu, Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U88	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! Mr Ansip made such a good review that after that he would like to take a verbatim and read it, he himself will be much smarter. A lot of bills, I have to admit, and that's my mistake, I didn't have one either. I'm sure it's interesting to review it in the future. But let us come to this subject, which we have mainly talked about today, the projected deficit, the use of reserves, the structural balance, the nominal balance, all the terms that surround us every day. The topicality of this issue is particularly highlighted in the autumn when the budget is to be put together and adopted, and in the spring when the budget strategy is being addressed. In fact, it is topical all the time, rolling, because we have to live by this budget. So I'd like to say a few words. The Prime Minister calmed us down and said, "Don't panic, maybe the word 'panishing' wasn't right, that word was 'tagging', and said, "Look at the actual receipts and decide what you see." You can see that tax receipts have been better than planned. I'd like to say that we can look at the big picture. If the Prime Minister says that let's not draw conclusions from a quarter, then I agree. Indeed, no conclusions can be drawn from one quarter, this quarter may give one signal or another. However, we can draw conclusions on the annual forecasts that independent experts say. It is a question of believing, whether or not to believe in the opinions of experts, both for me and for everyone else in the hall. In any case, experts suggest that the near future is not rosy. There's no reason to panic in that sense. If we realize that things can get bad, then the question is, at what point are we making any decisions? This is actually a question that has been discussed in the IRL Group. Bad is when decisions are made that show that at some point we are going to live nominally beyond our capabilities, i.e. we are seeing that we have structurally set ourselves a new level and this level is much lower than what we had previously set ourselves the goal. We have actually made our decisions at a time when we did not yet know that the economy was not doing as well as we hoped. Let us not forget that we have also made this year's state budget on the basis of rather other growth forecasts. In this light, the question arises as to whether we should review our priorities. Of course, you can criticise the opposition and say come out with your proposals. Yes, of course, proposals need to be made by all parties, mainly those who are right now, so-called responsibility and closing words. We have two options. Firstly, it is possible to increase the revenue side so that we survive beyond our abilities. Secondly, we have the opportunity to reduce our cost. These are two options that we can do. The third option is that we do not do either of them, but then we really need either to make reserves or to borrow. I have a feeling that this new government, I would still take the courage to say that the temporary government is dealing specifically with a very short-term government, which is dragging it out until the elections, the task lies ahead... I'll have some more time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U89	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U90	... not to let down this budget, this mentality and thinking that have actually entered the Estonians over time. I think that the residents of Estonia are residents of one of these countries who are really used to thinking about the state budget, whether we can live and should live beyond our abilities. If you look at the materials of Eesti Pank that they have issued, not only to the Committee on Monetary Affairs, but to the whole society, what do you see? You will see this table as a budget easing. You will see how the next few years produce a deep nominal minus: in 2014 - 0.7; in 2015 - 0.5; in 2016 - 0.4. If you look at the historical budgetary strategy, it was a pre-requisite to reach zero in 2014 already, and I am talking about the nominal balance, and I am talking about the plus already in 2015. The same is true of structural balance. The aim was to maintain a clear structural surplus. Now we are proud to talk about maintaining a structural balance. Well, of course, we're following the state budget law with it. We can't go down. There's no way to go! If the Governor of Eesti Pank says in the Committee on Monetary Affairs that their forecast for next week can show that we are reaching a structural deficit and that we need to take additional measures, there is no alternative. It's time to take action. The law demands it. My question to the current rulers, the coalition, is this: has our bar not suddenly been placed too low? Is the fact that the bar is placed in a position of structural balance not too low? And then say with pride that you see, somewhere in Europe, actually running from under the bar, there is also a structural disadvantage. So what? We're not looking at others, we still want to talk about our country. These are, in my opinion, the questions we are facing. In this light, I would like to say that some wishes that have been wanted to be carried out are not bad. The question is whether our current financial situation will allow them all to be implemented and whether the sources of cover that we talked about earlier are reasonable or not. But I will say it again, and on this point I will conclude that we have clearly relaxed our financial situation and lost our priorities. I think the good Prime Minister should also agree. If necessary, I can give him this chart as a reminder, and it is very clear from here that the situation is getting more and more relaxed. Yeah, we're doing basic law by keeping a structural balance. But was that our earlier purpose? No, it's not. Our earlier goal was something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U91	Thank you. There are no further requests, so the question has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U92	We will move on to the third question, submitted by Kadri Simson, Aivar Riisalu, Valeri Korb, Lauri Laas, Urbo Vaarmann and Jüri Ratas, members of the Riigikogu on 24 April 2014. The question is about the poverty and quality of life in Estonia and is number 404. This is answered by Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. Please ask Kadri Simson, representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu Chair, to present the content of the inquiry to the public!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U93	Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! In the previous question, there were a lot of statistics, and these amounts, which affect the balance of the budget, amounted to millions. There was talk of complex things, such as the structural balance of the budget, which is not a real balance. Our inquiry focuses on a simple Estonian person and on the fact that the recent European Employment and Social Development Report shows that poverty among the working-age population is getting worse. Unemployment is considered to be falling, but the proportion of poor people is not. The reason is the large share of the poor. Poverty is a special form of poverty: a person goes to work from morning to night, at least 40 hours a week, but gets a very small salary and discovers that he is poor after paying taxes. During the economic crisis, the share of poor workers in Europe has increased in about half of the countries, while Estonia's situation is illustrated by the fact that we have always had a high share of poor workers. The European Quality of Life Survey is conducted every four years. According to this, during the last survey period, in 2012, the wage level and the poor quality of life were poor in Estonia. The only representative of the government coalition in the hall, Andrus Ansip, a member of the Riigikogu, should now come to the aid of his successor, because there are no new statistics on the last few months that Taavi Rõivas has been prime minister. However, data from the same European quality of life survey say that the factors determining wage poverty are poor wages and poor quality of life in the country. According to the latest survey, the quality of life in Estonia was only 4.5 points on a scale of 0 to 10. Brazil and Chile, for example, were at the same level. Estonia's position in the overall OECD better life index order was 31st place, 36 countries were investigated at all. Our country's weaknesses are the small incomes of households, both in terms of net monetary income and net assets. What, then, does poverty in Europe mean? The same European quality of life questionnaire sets out six specific things on the basis of which it was assessed how high quality people live. The six things that a person can afford to live a quality life are a warm room, a week's holiday trip, the opportunity to replace old furniture, the opportunity to eat fish and meat on a regular basis, to buy clothes not used but new clothes, and to invite and treat guests. The answers revealed that a quarter of the Estonians could not afford any of these six things and did not take them for granted. 63% cannot afford to travel on holiday or to replace furniture. In reply to the previous inquiry, our new Prime Minister said that the government's aim is to reduce labour taxes. But the effect of reducing it is very different. The coalition of the Socialist and Reform Party has decided to reduce income tax by 1%, which does not help the poor very much. If the minimum wage rises to 390 euros next year, the person earning the minimum wage will win 2 euros and 36 cents by a percentage of the tax reduction. A person who receives the same salary as the Prime Minister wins over 50 euros. Thus, a 1% reduction in income tax is clearly a gift to the most wealthy. It is true that the second step is also coming; it is an increase in the tax-free minimum. Since 2008, the tax-free minimum has been frozen, which has always been EUR 144. In the meantime, the minimum wage has risen from EUR 278 to EUR 355. Next year's tax-free minimum will be raised by 10 euros, which means two euros more. Yes, for a person earning a minimum wage, it is certainly considerable money. However, raising the tax-free minimum to a greater extent for all would be a greater victory for the low-wage earners and also a more effective step towards reducing the share of the poor. Consequently, the questioners have four questions for the Prime Minister. We have reached the halfway point on the 15-year journey promised by Andrus Ansip. Another half of the road is to go, and then Estonia is among the five richest European countries. The first question is about this. I believe the Prime Minister will read the other three. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U94	Thank you. I ask Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas of the Riigikogu to answer the question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U95	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Happy other members of the Riigikogu! I will respond to your inquiry on 24 April. Question one: '2007. In 2001, your party made a promise to bring Estonia among the five richest European countries in 15 years. How has the standard of living in Estonia changed in relation to the EU average in seven years, and what steps are planned by the government union to deliver on the promise by 2022? " According to Eurostat, in 2006 Estonia's gross domestic product per capita accounted for 66% of the European Union average, taking into account purchasing power. This figure was 71% in 2012, and since last year Estonia's GDP grew significantly faster than the average in the European Union, it can be assumed that Estonia's approach to the average level of the European Union continued. The Government's steps to improve Estonia's competitiveness and maintain its finances are presented in more detail in the Competitiveness Plan "Estonia 2020' approved at the meeting of the Government of the Republic on 8 May and in the State Budget Strategy 2015 Question 2: 'Estonia has participated and continues to participate in aid programmes for the euro crisis, which assist Greece, Spain, Portugal and Ireland. What is the average salary and pension for these countries compared to Estonia? ' According to OECD data, the average gross wage in Estonia was 972 euros in 2013, 1445 euros in Portugal, 1717 euros in Greece, 2169 euros in Spain and 2698 euros in Ireland. As national price levels vary, it is more appropriate to base the comparison on, for example, GDP per capita in terms of purchasing power. Compared to the EU average, according to Eurostat, these countries were as follows in 2012: Estonia 71%, Greece 75%, Portugal 76%, Spain 96% and Ireland 129%. At the same time, I would like to point out that several of the countries that you have referred to, whose loans Estonia has guaranteed, have already been released from the status of the programme state and have proved that reforms, which they have also carried out with the support of Estonia, have helped them in substance. So I'd definitely avoid making fun of them. Question 3: 'Has any international organisation (IMF, OECD) in recent years drawn the attention of the Estonian Government to the tax burden on low-wage earners? What suggestions have been made, and how have they been responded? " The government coalition has set itself the goal of reducing the tax burden on people on low incomes. That is why the tax-free income limit will rise by 10 euros each year in the next four years. In 2015, the unemployment contribution rate will fall from 3% to 2.4% and the income tax will fall from 21% to 20%. In the context of pay poverty, the fact that the minimum wage will increase by about 20% over two years is also of little importance, which is one of the fastest, if not the fastest, increases in the minimum wage. Income tax and unemployment insurance contributions have, as we know, been reduced in the past. Our international advisors have also given their approval to such plans. For example, in 2012 the OECD recommended reducing their tax burden to increase the employment rate of low-skilled people. In this year's consultations, however, the International Monetary Fund stated that reducing the tax wedge on low-wage earners could, like other countries, reduce structural unemployment in Estonia as well. On the other hand, in its regular country-specific recommendations, the European Commission has not drawn attention to the tax burden on low wage earners in Estonia. Question 4: "What has the Government of the Republic planned to do to reduce wage poverty in Estonia? The proportion of people at risk of poverty among the 18-64-year-olds in Estonia was 8.5% in 2012, and the European average was 9.1%. In this comparison, the situation in Estonia was slightly better than in Great Britain and slightly worse than in Austria. In answer to the previous question, I spoke about measures to reduce the tax burden on low-paid people. In addition to lower taxes, a number of measures already approved in the state budget strategy, such as the increase in monthly general child support and need-based family support, the increase in the child coefficient for income support, the introduction of support services centres in all counties, to ensure career and study counselling and access to support specialists; support for the level of education of low-education adults; provision of quality appropriate training and retraining for adults, and, of course, the work capacity reform, which will soon be on the table for discussion in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U96	Thank you! Prime Minister, there are also questions for you. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U97	Thank you. Prime Minister! It has been said that a single mother with a child has a face of poverty in Estonia. If he happens to earn a minimum wage and raises his child alone, he is likely to be entitled to income support after paying home expenses and taxes. Your new coalition agreement allows you to increase the support of all children. Why don't you want that money to be kept by the mother receiving income support? Why do you not support the Central Party proposal that we are discussing tomorrow that children's income support should not be included in income support?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U98	For a specific example, the livelihood of this particular family will improve considerably next year. The main impact of this family's livelihood is that both the need-based family allowance and the general child benefit increase. Today it is less than 30 euros, about 27 euros, but it is growing to 90 euros. This is a remarkable increase. In addition, this particular family will also have an income limit. We have not yet decided whether it is possible for the country to raise the subsistence threshold for all families and all family members. At the same time, we have already firmly decided that when determining income support, the child coefficient will increase from 0.8 to 1 so far, which will directly improve the livelihood of the family. So in the case of a particular family, there will be a significant increase in income thanks to additional state subsidies. This is certainly more than 20%, more than 30% of the parent's income, rather than the fact that this mother actually earns the minimum wage.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U99	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U100	Thank you. Prime Minister! The loan burden of the Estonian state is low, but it has not ensured that few people living in poverty live in Estonia. The debt burden of private individuals and private sector accounts for 76% of GDP. I ask: which one is smarter, either the Estonian state or the private sector?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U101	I do not agree with your assessment that the low loan burden of the Estonian state is not felt by people or how you said it exactly. I have already pointed out, in response to an earlier question, that in different countries, the amount that the population on average has to pay each year to pay the interest on state loans is very different. The people of Estonia do not have to pay this money at all. The loan burden of the Estonian state is very small and it is definitely felt from the perspective of every person. I also disagree with the assessment that the loan burden of residents or private sector is somehow disproportionate in Estonia. In Estonia, housing loans form the main part of private loans. If you're wondering what the chances of this young generation acquiring housing are, it's hard to find you other than a loan. We know that, for historical reasons, it has been very difficult for certain generations to accumulate capital. We have not had opportunities for private individuals such as those in countries where the market economy has been able to operate continuously and where private property has always been respected. Therefore, it is inevitable that my fellow generations and those younger than me, as well as those older than me, have taken out loans to buy a home. I don't see anything deplorable about it in itself. I would also like to draw your attention to this fact: thanks to the fact that the loans of the Estonian state are very small, not only are the loan payments made by our residents to the state budget almost no longer available, but I have already mentioned Ireland, for example, where these payments are almost a hundred times higher than those paid by Estonian people, but this actually makes the interest rates of all private borrowers more favourable. There are very few countries where private individuals receive housing loans both cheaply and in Estonia. Once again: one of the reasons why private loans are so favourable in Estonia is certainly linked to the fact that the loan burden of the Estonian state is so low.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U102	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U103	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! There is, however, an unacceptable amount of poverty in the Estonian state. You can see that if you look around a little bit. The Supreme Court has also recently stated that our subsistence limit is too low. Why can't the limit of living be at least high enough to cover the minimum basket? That would be pretty normal. Why are these scissors so big?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U104	This year, we have raised the subsistence limit from EUR 76 to EUR 90, which is a very significant increase. This increase is much higher than the wage increases and price increases that have taken place at the same time. The amount of income limit has taken a very big step closer to the minimum cost of a basket. I agree with your assessment that this minimum basket is not yet covered by 100%. Time will show us whether we can continue to raise our livelihoods just as quickly. This can be decided in the process of making a new state budget. Personally, I believe that income support has a very strong impact on poverty reduction. At the same time, however, it must be taken into account that income support, where the income limit is added to a considerable amount to cover housing costs, actually has a negative effect on employment. I very much hope that, in the process of budgeting, constructive discussions will take place on this issue, both in the government and in Parliament, and we will come to a sensible solution. As a principle, I consider the right level of subsistence to be very important; it certainly has a very significant impact on reducing poverty.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U105	Andrus Ansip, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U106	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! The International Monetary Fund (IMF) has previously considered that there are currently no structural problems in the Estonian economy such as those we had in 2009. Therefore, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) has recommended to Estonia that, in the current turbulence situation, the economy should fall within bearable limits, not take immediate action to implement cuts, but allow automatic stabilisers to function. However, the European Commission has just recommended, as Postimees wrote, that Estonia should strengthen budgetary measures in 2014. Which solution will your government decide?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U107	I believe that we have reason to see this recommendation from the Commission in conjunction with real tax receipts. I know that by writing down its recommendations, the Commission did not have to know the fact that we have known to you today that Estonia's real tax receipts have been approximately 0.3% higher than GDP in the first five months of the year than was expected. Therefore, the budgetary position is better than envisaged in the budget. Of course, the government must always be prepared for different steps, but I would not get carried away either way. Rather, we are keeping the line we have maintained so far: financial matters must be in order; the state must come to an end when planning its revenue and expenditure. If we often change our quarterly fiscal policy in principle, we will make the country quite difficult to manage, and we certainly do not need it. I am absolutely sure that the European Commission knows very well that Estonia is the country of the European Union with the most conservative fiscal policy. I had the opportunity to discuss both these recommendations to our country and the state of Estonia's economy alone with the President of the European Commission, José Manuel Barroso. In view of the press conference that was after our meeting and the messages from Mr Barroso, it can be said that they were far more positive and hopeful towards Estonia than the messages we have heard here from Members of Parliament. Time will show how the economy is doing this year. But I see a lot of positive in addition to worrying messages. And I certainly don't think it's right to fall into black depression on the basis of one quarter's results.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U108	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U109	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! I read the comments where people write about the fact that they do not see that in the near future, underemployment will disappear when they monitor national policies. Can you promise people something or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U110	I believe you have also listened to my earlier answers and are familiar with the plans of the government union. Certainly, all the effects of lowering labour taxes are directly felt in people's pockets. Certainly, decisions taken by the previous government concerning the increase in the minimum wage have also affected people's wallets. Certainly, decisions that lower labour taxes and make economic policy more favourable will also have an indirect effect. The fact that Estonia's unemployment decreased very rapidly in the first quarter and is decreasing today also improves people's livelihoods. If wages increase rapidly and there are more recipients, then there will also be more social tax. And as you know, the more social tax comes, the faster pensions can grow. This improves the livelihood of older people and is at least as important as the livelihood of earners. So in any case, we're going to do something about it. Looking at the latest figures, we can see that wage growth in Estonia in the first quarter of the previous year and in the first quarter of this year was faster than in any other European country. For this, of course, more thanks are due to the private sector, because it is the sector's wages that led to wage growth. But the impact of state policy is not quite nonexistent either, so it is worth taking this into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U111	Thank you very much. No further questions. I open negotiations and ask for a speech chair in the Riigikogu, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U112	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know whether to cry or laugh. The question was about the people of Estonia who earn a very small salary and, after paying taxes and home expenses, find themselves in poverty, but the Prime Minister, together with the former Prime Minister, quickly reached a conservative fiscal policy and how Mr Barroso commends us. But what the hell does Barroso know about the concerns of people earning the minimum wage in Estonia? Wage growth can be statistically very high. If a person who has so far earned a minimum wage and received EUR 320 minus taxes and now receives EUR 355, the statistics show that he has been blessed with a 10% wage increase. Good news! However, when we talk about how much a person gets out of his payday and what he can afford for that money, the situation is not good. I would remind you that according to the European Quality of Life Survey, we do not have a warm room, regular meat-fish eating, new clothes, the opportunity to replace furniture and to treat guests and rest ourselves not only for thousands of people earning a minimum wage, but also for those earning a median wage, not for granted. I will stop for a moment at the government's steps to reduce the share of the poor. If the whole solution is that EUR 2 will remain in the hands of a person earning a minimum wage by raising the income tax-free minimum and EUR 2 by reducing income tax by a percentage, then that is not enough. The government says that more than EUR 80 million can be left to people by calling for lower taxes. At the same time, instead of this 1% reduction in income tax, it would be possible to significantly increase the tax-free minimum and, above all, to help people who work 40 hours a week properly, but pay is still so low that basic things cannot be tolerated. I would also like to mention briefly the Coalition's promise of child support. The Prime Minister said that these subsidies, which will rise to EUR 45 per child next year, will not have to reach the families who are the poorest because they will receive need-based family support. In short, if they receive this child benefit, they will receive less income support. For one child, EUR 45 is deducted from their income support. How does it still be replaced by a need-based family allowance for a family with two or more children, which will be 38 euros and 36 cents? Looking at all these figures, it seems to me that this family is losing compared to other families. The Centre Party has proposed that children's money be left to children, so let us not take this into account as an income when determining income support. EUR 45 may give this family the opportunity to allow their children to exercise or engage in activities which, as they know, were taken away with the 2009 cut. Many municipalities are no longer able to offer this opportunity. Or it gives the family the opportunity to buy books or to offer the child other developmental activities. Ultimately, the number of families with children among beneficiaries of income support is not awfully high, but the half loss of these children due to very poor circumstances is ultimately a considerable loss for the country. A 1% reduction in income tax alone will certainly not bring the working people and their families out of poverty. If the money is over, to which the tax reduction seems to refer, then one might think of raising the tax-free minimum to a much larger extent. So far, this border has been frozen since 2008. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U113	Thank you. Riigikogu speech chair Marika Tuus-Lauli, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U114	Good Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, After all, Prime Minister Kõivas can talk about what he wants, and also believe in this painting of our country's success and economy in every way possible. But we're not actually doing well. The Lithuanian and Latvian economies are booming, but ours is shrinking. And even in the years when the Estonian economy grew, people did not get a part of its success, because constant inflation and price increases have completely wiped it out. According to the annual report of the National Audit Office, the purchasing power of Estonian residents has not reached the pre-crisis level despite the fastest economic growth in Europe since the crisis. The Estonian resident is still poorer than the average European, says the National Audit Office's report. The Governor of Eesti Pank warns that wages are growing too fast in Estonia. So what are our salaries? An average of 778 euros reaches six people's bank accounts in Estonia. For example, in Finland, a person receives an average of EUR 2321; in Sweden, the difference is therefore multiple. And even in Slovenia, a newly independent country like us, a person receives an average of EUR 1 000 per month. In Switzerland, the minimum wage is approximately 3300 euros per month, which is 10 times more than in Estonia. However, this figure for Estonia is also 778 euros, which is not yet shown in the bank account, as its average has been calculated for example Jan Palmer's annual salary of 240000 euros and Sandor Liive, the head of Eesti Energia, for almost the same amount of annual salary. The average salary doesn't say much either because two thirds of Estonians get paid below average. Two-thirds tops! These people work, but they struggle with constant difficulties. Families have no confidence in having children in a country like this. But our country, one of the countries with the greatest emigration in Europe, does not intend to seek a solution to the problems, even does not recognise the problems. However, we see villages empties, daily services disappear, and peripheralisation is getting worse. What success story are we talking about when 350000 people live in poor conditions when 90,000 people are without health insurance and the number of people with disabilities is over 100,000? We cannot be proud of Estonia, like the Reform Party, where almost 80% of workers earn less than 800 euros per month and half of them receive less than 400 euros. We cannot be proud of the fact that the number of early pensioners has doubled in a few years for people without work and poor health. Of course, they want to make the invalids work now, but the question is, where? Unusual jobs? It certainly cannot be accepted that people living in poverty do not receive income support. With regard to the income limit, even the Supreme Court has stated in its recent judgment that this amount is not sufficient. But the Reform Party is proud and hides from Brussels the people living in our poverty, lying down their number of times, as it has recently become clear. That is why we are now getting less food aid money for seven years in a row. Estonian pension is nearly five times lower than in Greece, six times the difference with Ireland, twice the difference with Slovenia. Siim Kallas recently admitted that poverty is the most damaging to our national pride, but the Reform Party has been driving this country for 15 years. What is the difference? The government does not want to curb poverty, because price increases are like good things, with more VAT coming. And the higher the tax for the poor, the better. The high price of electricity, for example, is also a political decision of former government parties. The money must be recovered from the people, and no one will tax the huge profits of our banks. Poverty and low wages are a disgrace to us, but poverty is also a risk to the security of the Estonian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U115	Thank you. Riigikogu speech chair Andrus Ansip, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U116	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! There was no news from the previous speaker. Its tonality was predictable and generally should not be very responsive, but if false claims are made to the facts, I think it is the duty of every member of the Riigikogu to respond. The previous speaker said that the increase in prices has zeroed the wage and pension increases. That's not true. Estonia's real wage growth has been faster than the rise in prices. It was said that the purchasing power of Estonian residents has not reached the pre-crisis level. In order to ensure that these frequently false claims do not sound in the future, I recommend using statistical databases. I have the iPad now, here is Eurostat's home page. Its left side is GDP per capita PPS. If you click on it, the time series will open and you will see that your claim is totally wrong. Estonia's standard of living reached its pre-crisis level as early as 2011. Yes, we have not reached Switzerland's level with our standard of living and probably will not be there soon enough. Sadness takes a breath. But I wonder why you did not bring Norway, for example, or Luxembourg, for example, the depression would have been even greater. The standard of living in Luxembourg is also considerably higher than in Estonia. The claim that people do not have a job and that their health is poor is true, but it is true only if it is not put into context. Today I, too, have already said from this speaker that unemployment in Estonia is well below the European Union average. At the same time, I agree with the previous speaker that unemployment is still high in Estonia. And unemployment is still higher in Estonia than at the time, if I wanted to live forever in this crisis, in 2008, when unemployment was 4%. Poor health? Yeah, I've never met a person who doesn't complain about poor health. But once again, based on statistics, it is an indisputable fact that people's life expectancy in Estonia has increased at a very rapid pace. There has been a period in which life expectancy has increased over a year. The number of years of healthy living has also increased very rapidly. We have no reason to say that people's health is getting worse and life expectancy is getting shorter. True, the increase in the number of healthy life years has not been as smooth as the increase in life expectancy. Well, living healthy is also a relatively subjective category. There are also examples in Western Europe where people, especially during the recession, have found that the sum of the sum of the people's life expectancy has been shortened by more than one year. It is up to us to choose how we want to live our lives, whether in constant depression and in passion for our country, or still by feeling hope and contributing to Estonia's development.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U117	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu speech chair Tarmo Tamme!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U118	Mr President! Prime Minister! To this day, I did not believe that the Centre Party had a hand in the European Commission. But the latest news is that the European Commission warns Estonia not to deviate from the budget strategy. This is exactly what we talked about here in the Riigikogu Hall today. One very important point here is to balance the responsibilities and responsibilities of local authorities. I hope that the government will take this seriously and that something will change in the direction of local governments. But what did I come here for? There's something I want to fix. I have not told the Prime Minister how to find this 20 million farmers, perhaps where to put it, where to put it. I simply asked whether the government had a common position, whether or not additional support would be granted to farmers. It's not my job to show the government where the money is found, but I wanted to know how the government feels about this proposal. The Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Finance have a completely different approach.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U119	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations, there's been an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U120	Dear fellows, after the hammer hit, I ask all of you to sign up for a speech in a free microphone. Andrus Ansip speaking chair, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U121	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! There are two reasons why you brought me here today. First of all, the formal reason: I have never been able to cultivate this genre. For some reason, I assumed I would be able to try out an appearance in an empty hall, but few in attendance have disappointed me. But the real reason I wanted to come up here is because I'm ashamed. I have been to Brussels to talk about the human-friendliness of Estonian IT solutions, the success story of our digital solutions. I have told you that the principle of filing data once has been introduced in Estonia. That if the state asks the citizen for information once, then it must not ask them again, because the state must already know them. We have an excellent X-Road, all data in different databases are interoperable. I completed a declaration of financial interests in good time. In the old days, it took me a maximum of three minutes to complete this declaration. It was at a time when this declaration was not yet pre-filled or digital. But I had it on my computer, and with a copy-paste move, I raised the income of an individual last year, and it was finished. Now we have pre-filled declarations. I have spent at least three hours filling out this declaration, but I still have no conviction that I will not be taken to prison because of this declaration. What's so peculiar about this declaration? After all, a declaration of financial interests is necessary. The Riigikogu, which has adopted a poor law, or a government that has prepared a poor law, does not want to blame it, but this application seems to me to be an administrative burden that is old and largely unreasonable. Let us look at some specific provisions. The person's four-month social tax income is requested. Must have been a pre-filled declaration. Perhaps the state could know my four-month social tax income, but this is what they want to know about this year, not last year. I can't tell you when it's gonna tick for four months. Is it four months ago from the date of the declaration or the first four months of the beginning of the year? I had to ask the State Chancellery about the time I was Prime Minister, because the individual's income is pre-filled in this declaration with the precision of a cent, so I could not risk any rounding up. Finally, I learned from the State Chancellery with the precision of a cent of my income as Prime Minister, which includes compensation for restless leave. The employees of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu were also able to work; they also gave me the information that I wrote down the pre-filled tax return. Next, point 5 asks about my loved ones. Oh, great! They want to know about descending relatives. There is a father, a mother, a daughter, and who knows what other relatives, but there are no grandchildren. For grandkids, I have to write 'other', my grandkids are 'other'. All right! As we know, in our family, daughters are also listed in the population register, and their children are also listed there. Why do I have to put the names and social security numbers of five other young people in my pre-filled declaration with my finger? Excuse me, can I have some more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U122	I'm sorry, I can't. The law won't allow it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U123	That's a shame! All right. Why is it necessary to write down more about the member of the board of the Reform Party in the Commercial Register when I went there and when did I get free? I will be there until now, but this declaration of economic interests does not allow me to say that I am there now. I have to write a date there. When I write the date of the declaration, the attentive person says the next day that he lied: he said he was a member of the board until yesterday, but he is actually a member of the board. My warm recommendation is to thoroughly reshape this application. The current application is misguided; it is neither fully-friendly nor suitable for e-governance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U124	Thank you. I ask for the Riigikogu speech chair Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U125	Ladies and gentlemen, I want to talk about the reform of working capacity and about the fact that our country has not actually dealt with the problems of people with disabilities over the years. The current system, in which a person is assigned to a disability without seeing himself, based solely on man's own completed papers, has completely failed. By the way, people with mental disabilities also have to deal with this complex document. The whole system has simply aimed at reducing the number of people with disabilities and reducing the amount they receive. If we go back in time, we'll see a completely failed rehabilitation system. It will take 200 euros to complete the rehabilitation plan alone. The current expensive work capacity reform is also unthinkable and crude, even though it has been done for a long time. This has been done by former Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur and Taavi Rõivas, and now Urmas Kruuse and Helmen Küttt are trying to help. Clearly, however, it seems that the aim is to reduce the number of people with disabilities at the request of Europe and to cut their subsidies. In particular, the disability pension is replaced by a subsidy under a certain system. This bill and its reform are not satisfied with the House of Disabled People, the Association of Persons with reduced mobility, the Association of Careers, the Estonian Family Care Association of the NGO, and so many others. I think it is, on the one hand, a cut-off bill to pay less money to people with disabilities, but, on the other hand, it is spent on a huge amount of money to carry out the reform. If it takes about 10 euros to estimate the loss of one person's ability to work today, then about 250 euros will be spent on one person's ability to work. We have nearly 100,000 people with disabilities, and they will all have to be re-evaluated after a while. What's going on? European funds spend €180 million, with billions in old money. And this is complemented by our own huge sums of money, millions of euros of unemployment fund money. However, this is the money actually collected by workers and employers to pay people for unemployment, not to assess the working capacity of people with disabilities. This should be a purely national social task; insurance premiums should not be used for this purpose. This is outrageous! Our clever ministry officials want disability to be seen as normal unemployment. When the euro money ends, we must begin to draw these huge sums out of ourselves. 500 new officials will be employed at the unemployment fund, and these officials will assess a person's state of health, basically doing the work of doctors. The methodology has raised even more questions. For example, a person needs to answer questions about whether he can lift and move a half - liter container, whether he can put food in his mouth without the help of another person, etc. But the biggest question: where do these tens of thousands of jobs come from? If there are no healthy jobs now, where do part-time places come from? Half of the disabled who are not in employment are mentally ill, why should the employer hire them? And how, for example, can a person with reduced mobility move to work in the country? Do some people really have to work only to pay for the costs of going to work? After all, pay is very low for part-time people. Where do the municipalities get this money? Who's gonna go to training courses with these people? Why are people being forced and controlled? Instead, proper rehabilitation, rehabilitation, and rehabilitation are needed. An insurance system for accidents at work and occupational diseases is also urgently needed. These would be preventive measures. But yes, a disabled person who is declared capable of working will become unemployed, who will have to start living out of income support. People can lose their homes if they have no money to pay for housing. We certainly do not support the replacement of disability pension with disability allowance, which will be reduced depending on income. In our opinion, the reform is overlooking the main issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-02_U126	Thank you. There are no more requests for free microphone virtue. Good fellows, today's session is closed. I thank you and wish you the strength of your work! Closure of the sitting at 5.54 p.m.
