ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-08_U1	Good morning, good fellows, honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the session of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu on the 13th working week on Thursday. First of all, I would like to ask for a chair of speakers from the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or inquiries. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-08_U2	Dear Vice-Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, In yesterday's briefing, the Prime Minister and I discussed the student chess. And since we did not fully understand the Prime Minister's answers on this matter, I will, together with several members of the Group of the Centre Party, present an inquiry to the Minister of Education, Jevgeni Ossinovski. For years, there has been a situation where the vacant chess are filled in just a few minutes. There are more people who want to go to chess than there are places where the Chevrons can work. In order to motivate entrepreneurs to offer them more jobs, the Centre Party Group already launched a draft in 2011 to ensure that these companies are supported by the state. In the meantime, there has been a change of government and we will examine the position of the current government on this draft of the Central Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-08_U3	The speech chair of the Riigikogu, Tarmo Tamme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-08_U4	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, In my opinion, corruption should not be mentioned only when elections are held. Corruption is something that we all need to deal with, and that is all the time. I have the honour to refer an inquiry on behalf of the Centre Party Group to the Minister for the Interior, Hanno Pevkur. [[The noise in the hall, the vice president ringing the bell]] The subject of the inquiry is the suspicion of corruption in connection with the establishment of the Viimsi pier. On 9 April this year, the popular political program 'The Spectator' described the situation in Viimsi. The municipality government, led by IRL, which had left power, may have been involved in a corruption scandal concerning the construction of the pier of the port of Leppneeme. The municipality paid the builder EUR 13000 to demolish one building. After that, the material from the demolition of the building was sold for EUR 10000. Later, this EUR 10000 became EUR 70000 for which the mule had been constructed, and the pier had to be built using limestone, but it was actually used as crushed concrete. We have a question to ask the police and the prosecutor's office why, in certain cases, proceedings are not being opened. In the interest of the public, I'd like to know what really happened there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-08_U5	Urmas Reinsalu speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-08_U6	We must stand together here against corruption, Tarmo. The IRL is in the process issuing a draft law to prevent corruption, which concerns the amendment of several laws. It addresses a serious problem that has once again begun to influence the public electoral debate. We are talking about using public funds for election agitation. There have been exciting ads from Tallinn City Government, where Edgar Savisaar invites people to live in Tallinn, advertising essentially the policy of the Centre Party. This is certainly a corrupt act be used to gain public authority. The position of the IRL is that it should be unequivocally blocked, and that is what we are proposing. As can be seen from the views expressed in the columns of the newspaper Stolitsa, this is not only a problem of corruption, but certainly also a security risk. The city's taxpayers' money is fueled by hatred between nations and positions are presented, which are certainly contrary to the security interests of the Republic of Estonia. I hope that Parliament will deal with this draft without stretching, after all, the Valdo Randpere draft is also under way and welcomes the clear strenuous steps taken to prevent this kind of activity, so that these elections to the European Parliament will remain the last elections in which public resources can be used in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-08_U7	Valdo Randpere, do you have a procedural question? Your name was not mentioned during the negotiations. If this is done, you have the right to reply, not at the moment. I have adopted one draft and two inquiries on behalf of the management board, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Now, let's do the presence check. 88 members registered as present, missing 13.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-08_U8	Now let's start working on today's agenda. The first and only item on the agenda is the third reading of the draft law amending and implementing the law on the implementation of the common agricultural policy of the European Union, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and the law amending and implementing the law on law enforcement. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. So let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 628 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 83 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and no one is against or impartial. Draft Act 628 on the Implementation of the Common Agricultural Policy of the European Union, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and amending and implementing the Law on Law Enforcement, has been adopted as a law. The first item is closed. Good fellows, so our hearing today is over. I thank you and wish you the strength of your work! Closure of the sitting at 10.08 a.m.
