ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U1	Good afternoon. Let's start the briefing. First, we'll do a presence check. If anyone didn't hear me, I'll tell you again, please, we'll do the presence check! Currently 48 members of the Riigikogu are present, 53 are missing. There are also three government members participating in Question Time: Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, Defence Minister Sven Mikser and Foreign Minister Urmas Paet. Five questioners had signed up for last day. As you know, the questioner has the right to two additional questions and after that I will give you the opportunity to ask other members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U2	First of all, Urmas Reinsalu's question to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U3	Hello, Prime Minister. Welcome to Riigikogu Question Time! IRL is a constructive party, and we certainly want to help the government in its sensible initiatives and be a good friend in this Chamber. If the government needs advice or warning on any matter, we intend to offer this advice and warning. My major concern now relates to the future of Estonian public finances. Unfortunately, according to the Monday economic forecast, the outlook for our economy has deteriorated, and the Minister of Finance has said that more than EUR 500 million will be spent on the new coalition's promises. Is it reasonable to increase costs, as in booming times, and to spend reserves in fulfilling new promises in times of crisis?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U4	I am very pleased that the IRL promises to be a constructive opposition party. I am also very pleased that the IRL will now and in the future also find sources of cover for all its proposals on budgetary expenditure. It is only in this way that we can plan the budget that we are thinking of whether there is a source of cover for any proposal that requires the cost of money. I too have serious concerns about the budget, and I have had this concern for many years. In all these years, when we have made a budget together, we have made some pretty difficult decisions and we have always been able to keep the budget in a reasonable balance. As regards the steps taken by the government that I manage and the points of the coalition agreement that require expenses, all of them alone have at least the same financial cover. The coalition agreement does not create a deficit of any kind in the state budget, rather a bit of surplus, rather than a combination of all costs and all sources of cover.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U5	Urmas Reinsalu does not want to ask any further questions, so I will give you the opportunity... However, he wishes to present them. Please, Urmas Reinsalu, the first supplementary question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U6	You see, I'm the new member of the Riigikogu, Mr. Chairman. But the question is very simple. I think it's a little like Fidel Castro-style fiscal policy. In a situation where the country's revenue is projected to decrease, new costs will be incurred and will be borne by savings to compensate for this. Figuratively speaking, the Estonian family is aware that its income is starting to shrink, but the government recommends increasing costs and living on savings until the savings run out. This is exactly what the government's monetary policy is now. I would remind you that the monetary policy line of the previous government was clear: there must be an increase in the state's reserves, not an increase in their eating. My question is very simple. If the Treasury fails, is the budget balanced or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U7	This question would be much more useful if it were in any way compatible with the reality of the situation. Theoretical questions on the subject of 'what if' could be raised, but I repeat once again: in all the steps that the coalition is planning for and which are the points of the coalition agreement, there is also a source of cover. We are talking about one source of cover in the course of answering the third question. Your groupmate, Kaia Iva, specifically inherits more than EUR 20 million. These sources of coverage include the increase in both tobacco and alcohol excise duties, as well as the replacement of specially labelled fuel preferential excise duties by more effective support schemes, etc. We've all publicized these sources of cover. You are well aware that their total amount exceeds EUR 172 million and there are just as much additional costs. I'd take it with great respect if you did the same. For me, it was a great shock when the IRL recently supported a draft of EUR 108 million, without trying to find a single source of cover for it. This isn't the IRL I know. The IRL, whom I know and with whom we have made a great deal of important decisions for the country, would also have proposed sources of cover in support of this draft. This is exactly what the government has done: we have found sources of cover for all the costs that we have foreseen. I would very much like you to do the same as a constructive opposition party.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U8	Urmas Reinsalu, second point, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U9	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! I don't recognize the Reform Party I was in the government with. We tried to pursue a responsible monetary policy, and now things are completely mixed up and a little bit like Baron Münchhausen. In a situation where economic prospects are deteriorating, the government wants to start compensating for deficits at new costs. I do not understand such a monetary policy; it is, to put it mildly, 'after us come or after the Flood' policy. My question is simple and clear. When we served together in the government, we maintained such a line that next year's state budget would be in nominal surplus, or the state reserves would increase by 0.2%. How much is the government planning the nominal budget surplus next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U10	Thank you, good questioner! I would very much like the budget we made together to have been in nominal surplus, unfortunately, the facts show something else. However, this nominal balance should not be prioritised. This particular nominal deficit, which is in this year's budget, in a budget that we have made jointly with a good questioner, comes mainly from the fact that we are spending this year on the amounts of CO2 quota sales, which are only reflected on the budget's expenditure side. These are temporary expenses and a one-off cost. Revenue has already been received in earlier periods. The second half of this year's nominal budget deficit, which is our joint budget, comes from making additional payments to the second pillar of the pensions of Estonian people. This is also a temporary cost that does not affect the structural balance, but a nominal one. And oh surprise, in the next year's budget, two places where there will be a nominal deficit, it is possible that it will be smaller than this year's budget, are exactly the same. EUR 42 million comes from CO2 quota expenditure. First, it concerns new trams purchased in Tallinn with state support, as well as street lighting in Estonian cities. Secondly, 64 million is related to the fact that we make additional payments to the second pension pillar of Estonian people. As you well know, we will make these payments temporarily until 2017. As far as the government's budget is concerned, let us say that we are more ambitious than the forecast envisages. The forecast says that the budget will be structurally balanced next year. As I said, the government's plans are more ambitious. We have already made agreements that will lead to structural surpluses next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U11	I will give an opportunity to four specific questions within the framework of this question raised by Mr Reinsalu. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U12	Thank you. Dear Taavi in the garment! After all, this reasonable balance of the budget that you are talking about has been achieved over the years through unreasonable cuts that have reduced people's living standards and made it harder to cope. I'm afraid next year the new government will be facing the same thing. But I'm asking you this. The Reform Party has been leading our country and our economy for years. How have we come to the present situation? Yesterday, the International Monetary Fund reported that Latvia was doing best in the Baltics. The Latvian economy is growing by 3.8%, Lithuania by 3.3%, we are the last. Estonian banks are lowering forecasts, the Ministry of Finance also lowered forecasts. At the same time, for example, we had the highest food costs in March in the last 20 years. How have we come to this position?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U13	I draw the honourable Parliament's attention to an interesting paradox: one opposition party says that we are spending too much, the other says that we are cutting too much. Looks like a fairly balanced budget plan has come together. The question was what are the economic forecasts. Several international organisations see the future of the Estonian economy in a much more optimistic light than the Ministry of Finance, while I believe in the forecast of the Ministry of Finance. True, we all have concerns about whether the additional problems that may arise from a changed security situation will worsen the economic situation. It is our duty to be more conservative than optimistic about the state of affairs, and that is certainly what we are doing. Indeed, in international comparison, we have been foretold greater growth. Life will show. Estonia is a very small and very open economy. The success of our economy depends very much on how our main trading partners are doing. Unfortunately, neither Finland nor many of our other main trading partners are doing too well, and we are under great pressure from the risk that the significantly deteriorating security situation across Europe could have an impact on national economic growth. That, too, must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U14	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! I am still very surprised that IRL is now suddenly having concerns about increasing reserves in opposition. When I read the budget strategy for 2012-2015, which IRL certainly participated in, it is very clear that the objective of achieving a structural surplus by 2015 and achieving the nominal surplus of the general government budget as early as 2013, would be to begin the restoration of the reduced reserves during the economic crisis. I do not recall that the problem of restoring and increasing reserves in the Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Riigikogu, which has been chaired by the IRL, was on the agenda. Was it really the case that IRL ministers abandoned the interests of their ministry and put the objective of increasing reserves top priority?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U16	Thank you. I guess the IRL problem has been a little intermittent. Only yesterday, Parliament's debate had one draft that the IRL wanted to push through and which would have had an impact of EUR 108 million, or about 63% of the total expenditure that the Government Union is planning to make. The sources of cover were planned for this bill for exactly zero euros. Yesterday, the IRL didn't have that concern. I would like us to be dealing with an IRL or opposition as a whole, who is as much concerned about the state budget as the government and who is making proposals on the budget in such a way that, if there is a cost, it has been mentioned as a revenue side. With such an IRL, I am used to working together both in the government and in Parliament, and I very much hope that we will see such an IRL in the future. As far as the government's budgetary policy objectives are concerned, the aim is to achieve a structural surplus with the budget. This was the goal of the previous government, and it is also the current one. On the basis of current knowledge, the government has concluded agreements that improve the budgetary position compared to the forecast. Last Friday, the Cabinet discussed these issues for a long time, and as a result I can say that there are currently agreements that will lead to a structural surplus in the government budget next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U17	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U18	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! It's nice to hear and watch two political parties discuss the IRL issue among themselves. However, I do come to the balance of the state budget, which is a key issue today and which I would like to ask you about. In your reply, you said with great pride that, even though there is a structural balance, you want to achieve a surplus of 0.2%. I would point out that the previous government agreement was indeed to achieve a structural surplus of as much as 1% by 2016. For me today, however, the problem is that if we come back to the nominal balance, or everyday life, the Minister of Finance has said that we will be living beyond our capabilities of EUR 569 million between 2014 and 2017. This is the amount we need to obtain either a) by taking a loan or b) by going after the reserves. The Minister of Finance has said that we will take it from reserves. It is 40.45% of all Estonian reserves. My question is whether we may have to change any priorities. Is it right that we will eat 40% of our reserves in the coming years? Maybe we should make some cuts, not go through our powers.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U19	Thank you. It is very important not to confuse forecasts. Some forecasts take into account the decisions already taken and not at all the future policies of the government. According to one estimate, if we do nothing, there will be a situation that you described, including a nominal deficit. But who said we weren't gonna do anything? I said, on the contrary, a moment ago from this remote control that we are going to do something about it and that we have already concluded agreements that will significantly improve the government's budgetary position. If we didn't do anything about it, we'd be down in terms of structural balance, according to a forecast for a few years. We are not going to accept that. So, when assessing certain forecasts, it is important not to forget government policy. Just as the previous government managed to improve the budgetary position in relation to the forecast, with its economic policy steps, with specific policy decisions, we certainly intend to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U20	Marko Pomerants, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U21	Thanks! Prime Minister! It's probably just that the Minister of Finance is still a little concerned about your plans, or he wouldn't make such statements. But you have repeatedly confirmed that you have all the millions that you intend to spend with the precision of the decimal point, covered in revenue. When and where would the Estonian people see this famous Excel chart? Put it on the front page of the Postman for me, or on the wall of the house, where there is also a letter: 'I, Taavi Kõivas, say, sleep well, 170 million are on these lines. '
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U22	Thank you. This table has not yet been published on the front page of the Postimees, as far as I know, but the Estonian Päevaleht published this table to the last detail. So I have no concern that the public is not familiar with this table. We've read it before at a government press conference, and we've read it before, at least as far as the larger amounts are concerned, even from this remote control. There's a time limit for this remote operator, and not all numbers can be read. But I can do it again. Let's get started. A further increase of alcohol duty of €9 million, a further increase of €10 million of tobacco excise duty, a decoupling of fuel excise duty from road savings of €25 million, a partial compensation of €32 million for special-labelled fuel excise duty, changes in the preferential VAT on passenger cars of companies and a reduction of the risk taken in the budget of €20 million, etc., etc., etc. Giving Estonian Loto an additional 3 million euros of advertising rights. If you add up the numbers, that's how it's gonna be. In addition to spending on future periods, €23 million. This is the subject we are discussing in response to the third question. In total, both the cost side and the revenue side of the table are EUR 172.1 million, according to the knowledge of the moment we made this table. We also have the impression that some of the drafts may be more effective in practice, but we will see that in more detail later.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U23	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U24	The next question is from Enn Front to Secretary of Defense Sven Mikser.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U25	Thank you very much. Dear Minister of Defence! Due to the turbulence situation in Ukraine, some other international crises have inevitably been less addressed. One of them is undoubtedly a catastrophic situation in the Central African Republic. According to the UN report published the day before yesterday, one third of the people in this country urgently need direct food aid, with a total of over 1.5 million people directly affected by the crisis. According to the UN report, a long and costly humanitarian operation is needed to put an end to violence and restore agriculture. At the beginning of the month, the Council of the European Union approved the launch of a military operation in the Central African Republic in order to deal with the enormous challenges that Catherine Ashton has used. What of these challenges will our military staff become involved in the composition of the European Union contingent on the decision of the renewed Estonian government coalition and on the basis of the mandate of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U26	Thank you, Honourable Asker. Good Riigikogu! First of all, I would like to say very clearly that, even if the acute crises in the media over recent weeks and recent months have been overshadowed by prolonged crises and humanitarian disasters, this certainly has not been the case for defence planners. It is true that the launch of the European Union military mission in the Central African Republic has taken a little longer than expected. Fertilisation has lasted longer than originally planned, but this stretching has nothing to do with the escalation of tension in Ukraine and around Ukraine, as far as we know, in any contributing country. The military process has now been successfully completed. So these are definitely two completely different things. The Estonian Riigikogu gave a mandate to send Estonian active troops to Africa on 19 February. It is currently impossible to say the exact date, but we are working to ensure that the transfer of Estonian active troops to the Central African Republic takes place in the second half of April. This transplant takes place in several stages. The mandate runs until 31 August, which means that if we can launch our men within April, they can earn a four-month rotation. The tasks of the Mission Cell shall be the same as those described during the parliamentary debate. One of the functions is still to release both the units associated with Operation Sangar in France and Operation MISCA of the African Union to operate more extensively outside the capital and its immediate vicinity. These plans are similar now.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U27	Enn Frontland, the first question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U28	Thank you very much. In addition, violence between Christians and Muslims increases instability in the Central African Republic. In local terms, it is the bloody clashes of the Christian militia, the so-called anti-balaka and Séléka, or the Islamic rebel coalition. The peacekeepers of Chad, a neighbour of the Central African Republic, who, as decided by the Government, were recalled from their mission, supported Muslim fighters for religious reasons. Is there more information today about the massacre they committed in Bangui, the capital, than it was just recently? French President François Hollande has reported direct attacks on Muslims, which, according to him, led to a further deterioration of the security situation in the Central African Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U29	The situation is certainly extremely dynamic. The Central African Republic is a country with a very complex history and a religious and tribal composition of a complex population. The current wave of violence, which has also led to the need to launch an EU operation there, began in 2012. The crisis culminated in 2013 with the taking over of the Islamist minority. At that stage of the conflict, the violence committed by Islamist groups, mainly Séléka, against the Christian majority was of greatest concern. Recently, however, it has become a much bigger problem that the anti-balaka of Christians has committed acts of violence against Muslims, which has led to a new wave of refugees. This violence will certainly rise and slow down and may escalate. As far as the local population is concerned about the external security forces, the most problematic has indeed been the Chadan contingent who participated in the African Union mission so far. For certain internal political reasons of their own country, including the fact that Chadian rebels have also been active on the territory of the Central African Republic, they have more than other foreign fighters intervened in the internal contradictions of the neighbouring country. However, as has been said, the unit we are sending will operate in the capital and its immediate vicinity and probably the Estonian active troops will not be involved in any of these contradictions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U30	I will give you the opportunity to ask three specific questions in this Chamber. Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Secretary of Defense! The situation in the Central African Republic is difficult and this mission is not particularly comparable to other missions where Estonia has participated. How would you now describe the readiness of the Estonian unit for this mission? Is there the necessary weapons and equipment, as well as information and everything else needed? Are our men who go there ready?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U32	Each mission of the Defence Forces is unique because the security situation in each crisis area is unique. The largest deployment of Estonian Defence Forces to Africa is currently under way. It is certainly another kind of security environment, but it is also a climate and natural environment different from previous operations in Afghanistan and Iraq, not to mention the Balkans. As a rule, neither the Estonian Parliament nor the government has imposed restrictions on the operation of our people when Estonian Defence Forces are posted to foreign operations. In this case, however, there is inter-tribal violence, and our men's code of conduct contains clear principles as to the type of situations that the Estonian active troops are dealing with there and which are not. One important factor in Africa's natural and climatic environment is certainly the need to immunise active troops prior to deployment. The Defence Forces and the Ministry of Defence will do their utmost to reduce any kind of threat, whether from hostile human activities or other risks, such as from an exhausting climate. We're trying to minimize the threat to the health and life of our operatives.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U33	Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U34	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good minister! It is clear that no one doubts the need for a Central African mission for Estonia, especially in the current changed international situation. Our contribution gives us an equal opportunity to sit at the table with the French and debate, for example, these arms deals with Russia. My concern and question, however, is as follows. Has the new minister thought that we have actually given a mandate for only four months, until the end of August? The estimated time of departure is not yet up, there is very little time between the day of departure and the end of the mandate. Perhaps we should think about extending the mandate, and do so in good time, so that no such thing happens that our soldiers are anywhere in Africa without a mandate?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U35	Thank you. The Estonian Defence Forces will certainly be able to attend a foreign mission only in accordance with the procedure laid down by law and on the basis of the mandate given by the Riigikogu's decision. When this mandate was granted in February, a rotation of up to one four months was scheduled with 55 active troops. As I said when I answered the first question, the assumption that the transplant will take place in April is that a four-month rotation can be completed in full. If the transplant is delayed for any reason, the rotation will be shorter than four months. Within this mandate, it is also possible that up to five active troops, such as staff officers, will continue until the end of the year. But as far as the main contingent is concerned, the end date of the mission is definitely 31 August and a rotation period is foreseen. When Parliament discussed the mandate, the Minister for Defence said very clearly at the time, and this was also indicated in previous discussions by the representatives of the Defence Forces, that due to other obligations no more than one rotation period would be foreseen. For example, we are also obliged to contribute to NATO's rapid response forces.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U36	Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U37	Thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Can you confirm that the European Union military mission in the Central African Republic will be the same success story as Atalanta, where we also participated? This really turned out to be a very successful one, the pirates said that there was no point in them fighting, because the opposite force, the European Union's mission, is so strong that they give up.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U38	The European Union military mission is intended to last for a period of up to six months from the date of full operational functionality. Thereafter, the mission's tasks will be transferred to the African Union mission, which is also still in the final phase of development. The contributions of African countries should also increase over time. Looking back to the very difficult past of the Central African Republic, it can be certain that the European Union, with its military mission, will not be able to eliminate all the tensions that have accumulated in that country over the years or decades. However, there is a very clear objective, and there is a considerable likelihood that the situation will be stabilised so that, after the end of the European Union military mission, the African Union and also the French units will be able to guarantee security, which will certainly remain in the Central African Republic for a much longer period.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U39	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U40	Next is Kaia Iva's question to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U41	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! You have stressed that all expenditures also have revenue points. It's been through here a couple of times today that one of the places you want to take the money from is a parental pension that has already been legalised. From 2015, some people should receive a parental pension for raising their child or children. There are other immoral ways of obtaining money, in my opinion, such as greater advertising of gambling. Be good and explain what might be the moral justification for our elderly to say, yes, we have promised you a parental pension, but we are not fulfilling it. We've made this law together. I remember when we were in a coalition together, it made sense to everyone. It's not a surprise it's spending money on it. You have said that it was a surprise for you that this cost is relatively high, and that is why you want to postpone fulfilling this promise. But this cannot be a surprise to either the Minister for Social Affairs or the former chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Please explain!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U42	Thank you. Your question is based, in a sense, on the right assumptions. Indeed, as you said, there are sources of cover for our plans, and we are, of course, ready to talk about them one by one, if necessary. I can also comment on this particular example. Of course, it is important to know that the parental pension actually consists of three parts. First, if the child is born in 2013 or later, one parent is paid a pension supplement to another pension pillar. This also concerns all the parents of children born this year and next and the following year. This part of the parental pension is already in place and we are not planning any changes to it. It will remain valid just as it is now. The second part of the parental pension concerns parents whose children were born between 31 December 1980 and 31 December 2012. They are covered by a two-year pension supplement. This therefore concerns the parents of people up to 33 years of age. This part of the parental pension will also remain valid as it has already entered into force. The third part of the parental pension has not yet entered into force, it is planned that it will become effective in 2015. Our proposal is to postpone it until 2018. This is because until 2017 the Estonian state will have very high additional costs related to additional payments to the second pension pillar.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U43	Kaia Iva, the first question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U44	Thank you. Now we are in a situation where I ask one thing again, but the Prime Minister explains the general life of Estonia. My question was what could be the moral justification that would help the elderly to explain why the pension allowance granted to them cannot be introduced. We know that on average there are two children in the family, that is 120 euros a year. Thus, for a period of three years, it is planned that EUR 360 will not be paid to people. You have still stressed that we will not take this money away, we will postpone payment or, as you have just said, we will postpone payment of this pension supplement. My question is specific: is it planned to pay out this parental pension that has not been paid in three years on 1 January 2018? Will this average €360 be paid to every person entitled to receive it on 1 January 2018 on the retirement day?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U45	We are planning not to increase the pension for all Estonian pensioners in 2018, but also for those who have children and those who do not, both the individual and the elderly living with someone, to the extent that it is affordable for the state. And we have already agreed that the average old-age pension will remain exempt from income tax next year. This, too, is a step that requires considerable sums of money from the state budget, but we also have sources of cover for that. Now to the reasons why this particular step should be postponed. You should look at the past for a moment. When there was a sharp recession in 2009 and the Riigikogu temporarily suspended contributions to the second pillar of people's pensions, we promised all those who then volunteered to pay on their own that the state would make additional payments to their pension pillar until 2017. This means that in structural terms it does not count from year to year, but in nominal terms it does not account for significant expenditure: around 50 million this year, over 60 million next year and over 70 million euros in 2017, which is a one-off expenditure and at the same time no additional payments can be planned. A parental pension such as it was intended to pay in 2015 is indeed not feasible for the country. These obligations, which have already come into force, are certainly being fulfilled. These commitments, which have not yet come into force and which were scheduled to enter into force on 1 January next year, we will take on from 1 January 2018 when the high costs of paying into the pension pillar have ended for the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U46	Kaia Iva, the second point to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U47	Thank you. I think the previous government coalition was still in its right mind when it drew up the budget strategy and passed the laws. How much money is needed to fulfill old promises, how much to deliver new ones is still known. These expenditures were clearly entered in the budget. My question was why we are taking money from a place like this. There was no answer to that. There was no answer to another question, which is very important to me, so I will ask you about it. As you pointed out, we are currently paying ex post payments, which in the meantime had been suspended. Can you make a sure promise that in 2018, people will be paid three years' old-age pension well afterwards? You've said you're gonna postpone payment, not take that money away from these people. Will that money be paid out to them later?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U48	The plan is to start paying the pension supplement on 1 January 2018 and not pay anything afterwards, but from the moment the law enters into force. I am also quite sure that the previous government union was in its right mind when this budget was legitimised with a very costly promise. Probably in their right mind, even when it was seen that this would not be feasible for the country in 2015. That is why the entry into force of parental pension was postponed for one third. I stress that two thirds of the regulation on parental pension has already come into force. This will continue to apply in the future and will not at least be changed by the current government union. So, yes, of course they were in their right mind. However, it must also be borne in mind that the previous government union did not plan or at least did not intend to increase child benefit as much as it did with cover sources, nor did it provide any additional income tax exemption for all pensioners, regardless of whether they have children or not. These are the steps taken by the new government union, which requires financial cover, as your party chairman has rightly pointed out. You have been able to make sure that this cover exists when discussing this point. Is that what everyone welcomes with the big cheers? I don't think so. What kind of financial cover would that be? But I suppose it's understandable if we extend the pensioner's income tax exemption at the same time. This is more important to older people. If we can also raise child support, and significantly increase it, it is a great thing for families with children.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U49	I will give you two questions to clarify. Marko Pomerants, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U50	Thanks! First of all, I assure you that the members of the Riigikogu always ask their questions on the basis of the right assumptions and on the right grounds. Isn't that right, Prime Minister? But I don't understand why you're talking about your plan like some big heroic thing when you confirm that you're paying out your pensions next year at the maximum rate. Under the current law, you have no alternative. And I do not think it is necessary to brag about the fact that we intend to continue to keep the average pension exempt from income tax. It is also elementary, Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U51	Thank you. In all my deep respect for all Members of Parliament, and I assure you that I say this very sincerely, having worked side by side with you in the Riigikogu for six years, however, I do not think that all parliamentary questions have been put on quite the right footing. There may sometimes be a grain of irony in matters and sometimes such a favorable light of facts or assessments. But that's it. Of course, I am the Prime Minister and all the other members of the government also have the utmost respect for Parliament. It is certainly not in the government's favor that the law is being observed to the extent that pension increases are being made. It is elementary, every government must ensure it. At the same time, the government has the opportunity to influence the rise in pension by pursuing policies that increase the income from social tax. The policy must ensure economic growth so that people's wages rise, and it must also promote employment, so that there are more people who are paid. My government is working towards both objectives, on the one hand, by lowering labour taxes, on the other hand, by involving people who are not currently in employment, such as those with special needs. These steps will help us to increase pensions more quickly in the future if they only increased thanks to more social tax. As far as the additional tax exemption is concerned, a separate decision is needed and sources of cover are found. That is exactly what we have planned to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U52	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U53	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! We have both been Chairs of the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu and we can certainly count money. In fact, in the case of the question we are talking about now, it is very simple. You have based yourself on the fact that a certain part of delaying the entry into force of the parental pension for at least three years will be won by the State EUR 23 million per year. This is a concrete cover for other expenditures. It is a political decision. The state has said that it will pay 70 million to pensioners and put it somewhere else. By replying to Kaia Iva, you said that there would be no intention of paying back to pensioners in the future. This 70 million, which will now remain in the hands of the state, because payments will not be made in three years, will simply be diverted to another place, making other expenses. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U54	You're well aware of where the money is being diverted. As a result, additional income tax exemption for pensions, a very large increase in child benefit and an increase in the share of children in determining income support are possible in order to reduce child poverty in Estonia. As a result, free school meals are also available in upper secondary schools. All these steps need a source of cover. This money is not meant for mysterious things anywhere in the pocket of the state, where the state simply leaves it standing, it is intended for the benefit of Estonian society, the people of Estonia. Several of your party associates, and you yourself, criticised us for not having any sources of cover. I am pleased that in the course of the debate we have reached the point that there are absolutely no sources of cover and we can discuss transparently and openly which is more appropriate, whether to increase child support and extend the exemption from income tax, so that the average pension is still exempt from income tax, or to enforce this third third third of the parental pension more quickly. These are points of dispute for which a debate in Parliament is, in any case, justified. We are certainly prepared to discuss this in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U55	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U56	Next is Yana Toom's question to Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U57	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! It is less than two months before the European Parliament elections. The European Parliament is pursued by the Minister for Culture, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Minister for Education and Science, the Minister for Agriculture and also the Minister for Finance. It is, in itself, common practice, but in this government, it seems strange that you have very ambitious plans, but only 11 months to complete them. As your Prime Minister, is there no concern that half of your government's ministers will focus on the election campaign in the next two months, perhaps not on fulfilling these promises?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U58	Thank you. Already mathematically speaking, it is not conceivable that more than half of the ministers of my government will fill the seats of the European Parliament allocated to Estonia. There's only six of them. But more seriously, neither the top numbers of the Reform Party nor the Social Democratic Party list, even the first two numbers for the Reform Party are members of the government. But if both political parties in the government union were to get the maximum result, i.e. six to two, on your proposal, and if all these ministers went to europarlamento, it would not change the composition of the government so much that the office's working capacity would be paralyzed. The first Minister of Foreign Affairs, Urmas Paet, is on the reform party list. I say that he could be put to the vote without hesitation, even if he decides to continue working in the Estonian government. His experiences in the international arena benefit Estonia both in the Euro Parliament and as Estonian Foreign Minister. In any case, the vote may be cast. The next minister is already in our fifth position. I am not quite sure that we will succeed in getting five seats in the Euro Parliament, and therefore I would not open the debate on whether there is hope for the fifth-place minister to get to the europarlamento. But I call on all the people of Estonia to choose the people they believe are going to europarlamento. There are several of them at the top of our list, as well as at the back of the list. I recommend choosing them, they certainly represent Estonia with dignity.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U59	Yana Toom, the first question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U60	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I must say that I certainly will not vote for these people of yours. But that's it. The content of my question was different, either you misunderstood or I did not know how to ask. Is there any reason to believe that all the good six members of the government who are running for europarlamento will not be engaged in their election campaign within the next two months? You don't have much time to implement your plans, and if they start an election campaign, that means that even if they don't turn out to be elected and, of course, they don't get all six places, that's clear, they'll have not 11 months to honour government promises, but only nine months.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U61	If Urmas Paet, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Estonia, meets the leaders of Europe and the rest of the world every week, tell me whether this is an election campaign or his daily work. I would say that this is his day-to-day work, with which he certainly earns the trust of the voters. He doesn't have to do any separate campaign. If the mayor of Tallinn is running for europarlamento, saying in advance that he certainly does not intend to go there, all kinds of bird names will be used to describe it. But whatever it is, perhaps it is better that he does not intend to go to the europarlamento, frankly, and I do not imagine him there representing Estonia very well. As far as members of the current government are concerned, we could vote for everyone in peace. Let's see how many votes somebody get, whether they actually get the chance to go to europarlamento or not. Let's not get ahead of ourselves! I also do not rule out the fact that some of the members of my government, after the European Parliament elections, really decide to go there. We'll see!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U62	Yana Toom, the second question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U63	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. As far as birds are concerned, I would remind you that the government did not support Mr Andres Herkel's draft, according to which one mandate would have deleted the other. So the birds, we're all either way. But that's it. After you became Prime Minister, a big poster appeared in the media and a street photo with a slogan "Greater Wellbeing, Better Security." Please explain the content of this slogan and specify whether the poster is intended to support the electoral campaign of reform parties aspiring to the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U64	No, this very brief advertising campaign is certainly not linked to the European Parliament elections. You have probably noticed that I am not running for election to the European Parliament. I believe it is a sensible practice that the current Prime Minister does not stand as a candidate for other positions, either in local elections or in European Parliament elections. As a citizen, I have this constitutional right, but I intend to follow good practice, and I have not signed up as a candidate for a Member of the European Parliament. At the same time, I recommend that all Estonians choose from among the candidates for my party. I am absolutely sure that they represent Estonia with great dignity.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U65	It is possible to ask two specific questions, provided that the questions are well short and that the answers are also very short. Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U66	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! Looks like you've taken on some pretty big rights. Perhaps the elections should not be held at all, because the Prime Minister will say who fits the europarlamento and who does not fit. But my question goes with the question of Yana Toom, to which no clear answer came. The question was that ministers who are running for europarlamento should be campaigning, and when they do, they will not have time to devote themselves to the noble great goals that the Government Union has taken. You only spoke of Paet in your reply, but Paet is not the only candidate. How do other ministers reconcile the campaign with the ambitious goals?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U67	Certainly, if someone plans to do this in addition to their main job, the campaign must not hinder the main job. Just as the mayor of Tallinn's campaign must not interfere with his main work, this must not be an obstacle for members of the government and Members of the parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U68	Marko Pomerants, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U69	Quick question. What is the difference between Taavi's Clothes and Priit Kutser's posters on the building walls if neither of them really invites you to choose?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U70	The difference is that Taavi Cloth posters have never been made for public money. Priit Kutser and several other members of the Centre Party have promised to abuse the city's money. If the Reform Party has decided to present its non-candidate chairman at the poster, this has been the choice of the Reform Party. If the city of Tallinn decides to present the candidate district manager on an election poster ordered for the city of Tallinn, this is an abuse of the city's money.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U71	Thank the ministers! Thanks to the questioners! I apologise to Mr Sven Sester, but I hope that his questions have been answered in connection with the Urmas Reinsalu questions. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U72	Honourable Riigikogu, may I ask for a moment's attention, calmment, concentration!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U73	Due to the resignation of the member of the Riigikogu Margus Lepiku, Aivar Rosenberg is now a member of the Riigikogu. We now have the opportunity to hear the oath of the member of the Riigikogu, Aivar Rosenberg. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U74	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Riigikogu! By taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu as part of the XII Riigikogu, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U75	The time has now come to hand over the drafts and inquiries. Please! There are no requests. You are always used to listening to reports from the Riigikogu Board at this time. Today's announcement is that this morning there was a board of elders and Riigikogu who decided to refrain from reading the announcements from today at the beginning of the plenary session. The members of the Riigikogu will be informed of the decisions of the management board, the forwarding of enquiries and other e-mails. We're gonna do a presence check. Did Lauri Vahtre's card work? There are 80 members of the Riigikogu, including my colleague Lauri Vahtre, missing 21. Details of the agenda: today's 10th item on the agenda, which is the first reading of draft Act 612 amending the General Part of the Environmental Code Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws, will be presented by Tõnis Kõiv, Member of the Environmental Commission. I apologize and say that the oath was also on the agenda. Imre Sooäär, please! What's the problem? A procedural question can be asked.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U76	Thank you. The good President has already corrected this error and explained it. We didn't find point 10 on our agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U77	With your permission, we will now continue to deal with the drafts.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U78	The second reading of the draft law 559 on the amendment of the Credit Institutions Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws begins. Please report to Inara Luigas, Member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U79	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The main objective of the draft law amending the Law on Credit Institutions and related amendments to other laws is to introduce new requirements for banks, investment firms and alternative fund managers. New capital requirements for banks and investment firms will be introduced, alternative fund managers will be subject to operational requirements and more control. However, the wider objective of the proposal is to increase financial stability and to ensure the integrity and transparency of the financial sector. The draft is based mainly on two pieces of EU legislation, the so-called Banking Directive and the Banking Regulation. This is Directive 2013/36/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on access to the activity of credit institutions and the prudential supervision of credit institutions and investment firms. The Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council applies to prudential differences. The Committee on Finance discussed the draft for the preparation of the second reading at two meetings, i.e. a on 24 March and 7 April. Representatives of both the Ministry of Finance and Eesti Pank participated in the meetings. In the course of the procedure, the Committee on Monetary Affairs received the opinion of the European Central Bank. The draft is in line with the legislation of the European System of Central Banks and with the policy of the European Central Bank. No amendments were received from Riigikogu members, political groups or committees by the deadline for submitting amendments. A few words about the issues that were discussed in the committee. The first discussion was on the possibility that the depositary would base its assessment of ownership on other external evidence. This is a situation where the asset fund is located in other countries and in another register, and the word 'if possible' indicates that there is no good evidence to identify the asset. The Bankruptcy Act also asked for a provision extending the possibilities for offsetting financial transactions. The current text of the draft law provides for narrower netting options at the end of a transaction than provided for in European Union legislation. Only reciprocal claims arising from a derivative transaction referred to in § 48 of the Bankruptcy Act could be offset at the end of transactions. Under the Banking Regulation, it must be possible to apply set-off after the declaration of bankruptcy when all financial collateral arrangements are terminated. It asked what the principle of diversity meant and how precisely this must be laid down in the law. Diversity in the general banking directive is the principle that there must be different competences, experience, education and other characteristics within the bank's management. The Commission took the following consensual decisions: to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu. a by 9 April and propose that the second reading be completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U80	Thank you. Do the members of the Riigikogu have any questions? Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U81	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress, you just paid attention to the fact that there should be people with different levels of education on the bank's board. What does that mean? People with higher education, primary education, upper secondary education, upper secondary school and vocational education? How can it be understood that there should be people with different levels of education in management?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U82	Thank you. I may have been wrong about my... No, I wasn't. In short, the Banking Directive requires management to have people with different competences and experience, with different levels of education, professional qualifications or higher education. This will certainly provide a more objective way of managing funds at management level. We also mentioned in the Commission that there should be a gender balance on boards. Your party partner, Sven Sester, asked a number of questions about this, and he opposed the distinctions in this regard.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U83	Any more questions? No, it's not. I'm opening negotiations. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to make a statement on this matter? There are no negotiating requests. Let us examine the amendments. Amendment 1 has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, fully taken into account. Amendment 2 has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, fully taken into account. Amendment 3 has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, fully taken into account. Amendment 4 has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, fully taken into account. Amendment 5 has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, fully taken into account. Amendment 6 has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, fully taken into account. Amendment 7 has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, fully taken into account. Amendment 8 has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, fully taken into account. Amendment 9 has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, fully taken into account. Amendment 10 has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, fully taken into account. Amendment 11 has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, fully taken into account. Amendment 12 has been taken fully into account by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Amendment 13 has been taken fully into account by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Amendment 14 has been taken fully into account by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Amendment 15 has been taken fully into account by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Amendment 16 has been taken fully into account by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Amendment 17 has been taken fully into account by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Amendment 18 has been taken fully into account by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading of draft 559; no other proposals have been received. The second reading of Bill 559 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U84	The next item is the second reading of the draft Law amending the Law on Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and their Precursors, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Rein Aidma, Member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Speaker's Office, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U85	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Law on Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and their Precursors was discussed twice by the Social Committee on 24 March and 7 April. No amendments were received at the time, but the Committee on Social Affairs decided to make one amendment itself and to make the wording of point 4 of the draft legally more precise. The Commission took the following decisions: first, the proposal to put draft law 567 on the agenda of the plenary assembly on 9 April; second, to propose that the second reading be closed; third, to send the draft to third reading by 16 April when the second reading is closed in this Chamber; fourth, to propose that the draft be put to the final vote. All these decisions were adopted by consensus within the Commission. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U86	Thank you. There are questions for the waitress. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U87	Good manager! Dear waitress, Paragraph 101 (2) states that the early warning information system for new psychoactive substances is established and the basic regulation is established by the Government of the Republic by regulation. Can you tell me what it costs? Is it cost-related or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U88	Thank you. The entire system is used by a whole range of authorities, but since the Health Board has a budget for the corresponding expenditure, it covers the costs of the system.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U89	Thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Who wants to negotiate? There are no negotiating requests. Reverend Riigikogu, there is one amendment to draft 567. It has been presented by the Committee on Social Affairs and the proposal has been fully taken into account. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading of draft 567. Second reading of the bill is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U90	Next, we will begin the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on Health and Safety at Work initiated by the Government of the Republic. Minister of Social Affairs Helmen Küti, for the presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U91	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The draft law amending the Law on Health and Safety at Work, initiated by the Government of the Republic, was presented to the Social Committee on 10 March. This law has three main objectives. The first objective is to enable labour inspectorate clients, i.e. employers and employees, by introducing the Labour Inspectorate's customer portal, to have easier, faster and also cheaper administration and to improve the quality of data moving between the Labour Inspectorate and customers. The introduction of electronic procedures ensures that the quality of data is improved, their mobility is accelerated and administration is cheaper for both the Labour Inspectorate and clients. The second objective is to change the layout of the medical notification concerning the accident at work and, as a result, the granting of temporary incapacity for work. Under the current rules, the doctor shall immediately inform the employer and the Labour Inspectorate of a serious or fatal accident at work and the worker of the assignment of temporary incapacity for work as a result of an accident at work. The purpose of this law is to change the notification scheme for accidents at work so that in the future the doctor will notify only the Labour Inspectorate, who will in turn inform the employer. One example is that in 2013, more than 3,900 medical reports were available. According to the change to be made, they should report the accident on a one-off basis and continue to be notified by the Labour Inspectorate. This will certainly reduce the workload of doctors. The third objective is to establish a mandate standard for the work environment database and the database of safe working life. The establishment of a mandate rule for the work environment repository is necessary for the validation of the database in the national information systems management system (RIHA). The introduction of a mandate standard for a safe working life database is necessary for the introduction of a safe working life tool. Safe working life tool The workbike is designed to make it easier for a company's work environment specialist to carry out his/her tasks. The workbike is not mandatory, but it will certainly assist the employer by informing about the risks and risks. A major campaign has also been planned to introduce the Workplace to employers and to prevent questions as to whether this leads to expenditure on the state budget and leads to excessive financial expenditure. The answer is that it will be financed under the end ESF programme 'Improving the quality of working life 2009/2014'. So there's money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U92	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U93	Good manager! Good waitress! I think it's a very good law, but I'm asking for myself. It is written about this database that all employees can look at what has been written about them there and, at the same time, there should be information on the basis of which the undertaking can carry out the work in a safer manner. Are all safety papers available free of charge to businesses there and all accidents at work are included in the same database?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U94	Actually, it's two databases. When we talk about the Workbike, it is recommended to the employer. The employer can avoid accidents by already seeing the risks when using this tool. It is such an introduction and explanatory tool where you can find out what needs to be taken into account, for example, when working at heights. When we talk about those databases that contain health data, it is exactly as it has been so far that only those who have the right to access sensitive personal data will have access to them, and there will be a trace of their use.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U95	Thank you. Aivar Chef, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U96	I'm gonna ask you to get this straight. The first part of paragraph 161 (4) states that the use of a web-based safe working life tool is optional for the company. The last sentence is: 'The worker has access to data about him. ' It doesn't say there are two databases.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U97	There are three changes, and the Workbook is only one of them. I spoke about the second amendment to your question, which concerns the movement of data necessary to determine temporary work capacity as a result of an accident at work. As far as Workbike is concerned, if a person wants to look at the data about himself, the login is based on an ID card.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U98	Thank you, Madam Secretary. No further questions. Aare Heinvee of the Speaker's Board for the presentation of the Social Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U99	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft law amending the Law on Health and Safety at Work on 580 twice, on 10 March and on 17 March in procedural terms. The draft was presented by Seili Suder, Head of Labour Relations Policy of the Department of Working Life Development of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Anni Katkosild, Head Specialist of the same department. There is still so much to add on the objectives of the draft that there are two IT changes, which will significantly ease administration, and one is aimed at reducing administrative burdens. As the Minister gave a thorough overview of the draft, I will not repeat what has been said. The Commission looked more closely at the new work environment tool, the database of safe working life with a short name Workbike, the security of the database, its use and the costs involved. Now, procedural decisions. At its meeting on 10 March, the Commission decided to support the draft by sending it to first reading by 19 March with a proposal to close the first reading, to set 10 working days for the submission of amendments and to appoint Aare Heinvee as rapporteur for the Commission. The decisions were consensual. At its meeting on 17 March, it was decided to postpone the referral of the draft to the Grand Chamber on 9 April, to propose that the first reading be closed and that the amendments be tabled within 10 working days, i.e. until 5.15 p.m. on 24 April. All the decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U100	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. The representatives of the political groups have the opportunity to speak. There are no requests to speak. Honourable Riigikogu, the commission has proposed to finish the first reading of the draft 580. No other proposals have been received. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of 580 amendments. April 24, 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U101	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Foreign Professional Qualifications Recognition Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Education and Science of the Speaker's Board, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U102	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will brief you on the draft Act amending the Foreign Professional Qualifications Recognition Act initiated by the Government. The drafting of the draft act was driven by the European Commission's comment that Estonia, when transposing European Directive 2005/36/EC, has introduced slightly stricter conditions for persons temporarily employed in regulated professions, and our law is being asked to bring the directive into line. That's what this bill is about. The requirement to register temporary work within 14 working days will be removed from the law, which will then make the regulation more flexible. This does not result in any particular substantive changes in the operation of the law. So I hope for a constructive procedure in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U103	Do the members of the Riigikogu have any questions? No, it's not. Thank you, Minister. For the presentation by the Commission, please refer to Andrus Saare.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U104	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Draft 590, draft law amending the Foreign Professional Qualifications Recognition Act has been on the agenda of the Committee on Culture three times. On 17 February the Commission decided to appoint me to represent the draft, and on 10 March there was a substantive debate on the draft, where Chancellor Janar Holm of the Ministry of Education and Research and Tiia Raudma, Adviser to the Department of Higher Education, explained the position of the government. As the Minister explained, the draft has been drawn up in connection with a request from the European Commission referring to inconsistencies in § 20 of the Foreign Professional Qualifications Act with the Professional Qualifications Directive. The request submitted is not yet an infringement procedure, but a pre-infringement dialogue between the European Commission and Estonia. This allows Estonia to resolve the inconsistencies of the law before initiating infringement proceedings. In short, the purpose of the draft is to simplify the procedure for informing temporary employment which a person must undergo if he or she wishes to take up a regulated position or profession temporarily in Estonia when coming from a foreign country. The committee was interested in how many such cases will occur in Estonia during the year. According to the representatives of the Ministry, there have been individual cases so far, but it has been recognised that an increase can be expected here. Ultimately, the Commission decided to propose the completion of the first reading. The decision was consensual. It was decided to allow ten working days for amendments. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U105	Thank you. Members of the Riigikogu have questions. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U106	Dear waitress, The two-week limit will now be removed. I didn't see where that line was being pulled or whether there was a border at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U107	There's no border at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U108	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U109	How come there's no limit? When I look at paragraph 1 of the draft, I read that I should inform you 14 days before starting work, and if I look at paragraph 2 of the draft, there is that 14 calendar days after starting work. Are these points now cancelled?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U110	It was valid until now, both of these points will be abolished.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U111	Thank you. No further questions for the rapporteur. The representatives of the political groups have the opportunity to speak. There are no requests to speak. Honourable Riigikogu, the commission has proposed to finish the first reading of the draft 590. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 590 amendments. April 24, 5.15 p.m. First reading of Bill 590 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U112	The following is the start of the first reading of draft Act 621 on the amendment of the Veterinary Organisation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. Please present Minister of Agriculture Ivari Padari!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U113	Mr. Chairman! Dear Riigikogu! I am honoured to be again before you as Minister of Agriculture, and just as it was 15 years ago, the first draft law that I am going to defend here before you, now also the draft law on veterinary regulations. History repeats itself. The development of a draft law amending the Veterinary Organisation Act and related amendments to other laws led to the need to exempt veterinary surgeons from the authorisation to start an economic activity under the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities. The amendments to the draft act also concern the possibilities for a person who has obtained qualifications from a veterinary surgeon outside Estonia to obtain a professional licence. The amendments to the legislation affect in particular the veterinarians operating in Estonia and those qualified by the veterinarian who start operations. A professional veterinarian who regularly complements himself will be able to obtain a subsequent renewal of the authorisation and the authorisation of the former veterinarian will become a new term "professional licence for veterinary surgeons', without a time limit. To date, nearly 600 licences have been issued, and the draft then defines the professional licence. The amendment empowers the Minister for Agriculture to establish a register of veterinarians. An up-to-date information system with interfaces brings together data on applicants for authorisation and authorisations for professional activities, ensures greater transparency for the consumer of the veterinary service and reduces the administrative burden for the Food and Veterinary Office. The possibility to apply for a Veterinarian's professional activity permit and update the data will be facilitated by the possibility to do so electronically in the future, for example through the state portal eesti.ee. When granting a licence for professional activities to persons who have obtained qualifications outside Estonia, the choice of a person who has obtained a qualification as a veterinarian in a Member State of the European Union or Switzerland shall be broadened. At present, there are two options for qualification, either recognised or passed an aptitude test. A new, third option provides for an adaptation period of up to one year. The Estonian University of Life Sciences, which is the only one in Estonia that provides veterinary training, will play a key role in assessing compliance with qualifications acquired in another foreign country, the so-called third country, and will assess the compliance of the completed curriculum with the curriculum in force in the European Union and, if necessary, make proposals for further training. As a new matter, the procedure for issuing a certificate of professional conduct necessary for the transfer to work outside the Republic of Estonia is laid down and the state fee is fixed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U114	Thank you. Any questions for the initiator of the bill? Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U115	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. You said 600 people, the doctor's got the license. That's the question. We know that in hospitals we do not have enough doctors, say 160-170 doctors are missing. For the sake of interest, like a city dweller, do we have a shortage of people who are in possession of a permit?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U116	The whole agricultural sector has undergone a major change over 22 years. It can be said that at the beginning of these changes, 20 years ago, we had a significant number of trained veterinarians in Estonia. Moreover, at that time there was an occupation such as the Veterinarian Brotherhood. So the number of people who received veterinary training was quite high. Well, we've actually lived a lot of that old fat. However, I dare say that the problem is rather that veterinarians do not have enough burden because the number of animals has decreased considerably. There are a good number of veterinarians who have become supervisors and who no longer hold a certificate of competency from an authorised veterinarian. In any case, however, our good country university continues to train specialists. I dare say that all Estonia's needs are covered.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U117	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U118	Thank you. Dear waitress, Recently, the Keeleininspektsioon sent a prison squad to check on the medics in Ida-Virumaa, and then there was raging, punishing and warning, whatever was done. Haven't you heard, does the Language Inspectorate intend to check how the veterinarians have their language skills?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U119	That's an interesting question. I'm sure I'm wondering if the Food and Veterinary Office has had any of these contacts, but to my knowledge, we don't have these problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U120	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U121	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I'm gonna ask you one more time for interest. Are our veterinarians also going to work in Finland or Sweden or somewhere else?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U122	I do not have very precise statistics on how many veterinarians who have graduated from the Estonian University of Life Sciences, for example, will remain in Estonia and how much work goes elsewhere. It certainly happens that our very good doctors also go to work outside Estonia. On the other hand, I also know such pleasant facts that doctors who have received veterinary training abroad, a very good veterinary certificate, have come to work in Estonia. The Estonian labour market is small and often one or two very specialised veterinarians who have come from outside are important players in this landscape.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U123	Thank you, Ivar Padar! The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions for the initiator of the draft. On behalf of the Commission, I would like to ask Mrs Terje Trei, Member of the Committee on Rural Affairs, to make a statement.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U124	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Rural Affairs discussed the amendment of the Veterinary Organisation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and, in this connection, the draft law amending other laws 621 at its meeting on 25 March. a. The meeting of the Commission was attended by Ms Pille Tammemägi, Deputy Head of the Food Safety Department of the Ministry of Agriculture, and by Kairi Küüdma, Chief Specialist of the Animal Health Office of the same department. The representatives of the Ministry gave a thorough overview of the draft and answered the questions raised by the members of the Commission. I will summarise once again that the draft law brings the Veterinary Organisation Act into line with the Law on the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities. The current authorisation of a veterinarian shall become the new name of the official veterinarian's authorisation. A basis for the establishment of a register of veterinarians shall be established and terminology harmonised and the procedure for granting a professional activity permit to persons who have obtained qualifications in a veterinary surgeon abroad shall be specified. The amendments affect in particular the veterinarians already operating in Estonia and the qualified veterinarian who will be operating, who will reduce the administrative burden and have to pay the state fee once. The register of veterinarians to be created replaces the existing list, ensures greater transparency for the consumer of veterinary services and reduces the administrative burden for the Food and Veterinary Office. The costs of establishing the register have been taken into account in the preparation of the 2014 budget. At its meeting, the Committee on Rural Affairs made the following decisions consensually: firstly, to propose the inclusion of a draft of 621 on the agenda of the plenary assembly on 9 April 2014; secondly, to propose the termination of the first reading of the draft; thirdly, to appoint Terje Trei as rapporteur; and fourthly, to propose a deadline of 10 working days for amendments to draft 621 in accordance with the Parliament's Rules of Procedure Act. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U125	Thank you. Do the members of the Riigikogu have any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. I'm opening negotiations. Would the representatives of the political groups like to make a statement? No, I don't. Dear Riigikogu, the Committee on Rural Affairs has proposed that the first reading of draft 621 be completed. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 621 amendments. April 24, 5.15 p.m. First reading of the bill is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U126	The first reading of the Act amending the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Minister of Justice Andres Anvelt, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U127	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! At the beginning of this year, the Government of the Republic forwarded to the Riigikogu the draft law amending the general part of the Code of Economic Activities Act, which has already been processed in the Riigikogu and was adopted at the end of the working hours of the previous Parliament, to the Act of the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities adopted in 2011. Like the Act on the General Part of the Original Code of Economic Activities, the draft law amending it aims to promote business freedom and improve the business environment. If this law is adopted, there will be clearer and more uniform regulation in the area of economic activity. The purpose of the draft law is to harmonise the regulations of specific laws with those of the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities Act and to eliminate and correct some inaccuracies in the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities Act itself. In part, amendments to the specific laws have changed over time due to regulations and some amendments have been driven by the implementation of the law on law enforcement that will soon enter into force. The legislator was positively active between the adoption of the Law on the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities and the submission of this draft law. This gave the Ministry of Justice an incentive to review the compatibility of the General Part Act with the legal system and updated inputs in order to restructure the General Part to some extent. The legislator provided sufficient time for the implementation of the general part so that we could submit amendments to the debate before the final entry into force of the law. The draft is quite substantial, most of it is limited to the organisation of the operative part of the general part of the Code of Economic Activities. I would like to highlight some of the most important changes proposed in the draft. The draft provides that from 1 July 2016 the notification procedure in the field of trade will be transferred to the full electronic system operating through the Estonian information gate. This time is due to the transition to a full electronic notification obligation in the area of government of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications from that date. During the transitional period, an undertaking may also submit an economic notification to a local authority, as is currently permitted. The company must pay the state fee of EUR 10 through the local government unit when submitting the notification, and the provision of the notification through the information gate is free of the state fee. The reason for this is simple: there will be no additional costs for the administration when the notification is made through the information gate. Secondly, the draft provides for the waiver of the licence provided for in the Electricity Safety Act, the Gas Safety Act, the Safety of the Lift and Cableway Act, the Machinery Safety Act and the Pressure Equipment Safety Act, as well as the notification obligation. This means that these areas will continue to be governed by qualifications-based requirements. For example, if an undertaking providing electrical safety-related services is currently required to apply for registration and under the new regime it is planned that it should be authorised, the draft does not require either of them in the future. The licence would have no independent added value in these areas and could only be seen as an administrative barrier to the market. Abolishing the authorisation requirement does not mean compromising substantive requirements; it is enough to recruit qualified personnel. The work is still to be carried out by a competent person whose competence has been certified by the Personnel Certification Authority. Applications for licences under the Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Prevention Act will be processed by the Financial Intelligence Unit of the Central Criminal Police instead of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. This amendment is due to the fact that this activity is already inherently linked to the competence of the FIU and that a large part of the necessary information is currently readily available there. The competence of the FIU shall be enhanced so as to enable it to suspend or prohibit or withdraw its authorisation in the future. The Bill excludes from the scope of the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities Act a system of strategic control of goods within the meaning of the Strategic Goods Act, as it is not an economic activity but an additional control of the State over the goods. It is also important that the draft allows legal explanations from the notary. It is provided as a service which gives the notary the right to decide whether or not to provide the service. While, initially, the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities Act intended to impose a statutory fee for the service, the bill states that the remuneration for providing legal explanations is conventional. If the notary does not reach an agreement with the undertaking, the notary shall forward the request for clarification within five working days to the economic administrative authority and shall reply free of charge. The economic administration is an administrative body which also issues licences. In the Liquid Fuel Act, the notification requirement is replaced by the regulation of the licence. The amendments which entered into force on 1 April 2011 provided for the obligation to hold a security as a condition for the decision to register fuel sellers. As a result, the requirement for an existing registration became eligible for authorisation within the meaning of the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities Act by its nature and content. Finally, I'm talking about the date of entry into force. The date of entry into force of the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities Act is 1 July 2014. The draft does not specifically state the date of entry into force, but our hope is that the draft will become final and will be adopted as a law before the general part of the Code of Economic Activities Act enters into force. If Parliament is able to adopt the law before then, then we can all be sure that, at the time of the entry into force of the Act on the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities, an environment that is unambiguous and conducive to the freedom of business is guaranteed throughout the field of economic activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U128	Do the members of the Riigikogu have any questions for the initiator of the draft? No, it's not. Thank you, Minister. I would like to ask Tiina Lokk-Tramberg, Member of the Economic Commission, to act as rapporteur for the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U129	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed this issue in substance once, once postponed the debate and once took procedural decisions. A substantive debate took place on 13 March under the chairmanship of Mr Urve Palo, Vice-Chairman of the Economic Commission. Hanno Pevkur, Minister of Justice, Madis Timpson, Minister of Justice, Illimar Pärnamägi, Head of the Public Law Department of the Ministry of Justice, and Sander Põllumäe, Adviser to the same unit were invited to the meeting of the Commission. The Minister presented an overview of the objectives and content of the draft. It noted that before the entry into force of the Act in July 2014, it would be appropriate to adjust some parts of the Act, such as those relating to the control of strategic goods, notarial operations, practice in the use of electronic communications, the Electricity Safety Act, the Liquid Fuel Act and other amendments relating to codification. Before this meeting of the committee, the working group, composed of Piia Schults, Adviser to the Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu, Illimar Pärnamägi and Sander Põllumäe, representatives of the Ministry of Justice, and the person standing before you, who is the leading mentor of the draft. At that meeting of the Commission on 13 March, as rapporteur for the commission, I gave an overview of the work on the draft during the group's discussions. As this is an extremely complex and already relatively controversial draft, on which myriad amendments have been tabled, I will give a brief overview of the work that has been done. The group had a choice between two options: either to refer to the text of the draft text and, if necessary, to make only technical corrections or to go more substantively. As the draft amends the law that has not yet entered into force, it was possible to review the law on the general part of the Code of Economic Activities as a whole with a view to what would be needed and possible to amend or improve in the new space of time. This is in particular with a view to reducing the number of legal disputes arising from the implementation of the law in the future. Of course, it is not possible to completely avoid all the problems of implementation with this kind of law, but it is possible to reduce them to a large extent, which was our aim. In the preparation of the draft, the group was rather based on the second option, and the members of the Commission, as well as the Minister, considered it appropriate at the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs. The Commission was informed that productive meetings had taken place with representatives of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications in several working groups. At that point, a number of proposals were received to complete and improve the text of the draft, including the Estonian Association of Construction Entrepreneurs, the Estonian Society of Electrical Engineering Entrepreneurs, the National Heritage Board, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Agriculture and other institutions. At the time of the Commission's meeting, the working group had not yet dealt with the application, as the amendments to the law implementing the Law Enforcement Act concerning the application of the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities had not yet been included in the electronic State's Official Journal. The working group has worked through the general section and, in cooperation with representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of Justice, has also agreed on changes that should ensure greater legal clarity. I will give you some examples of the issues that arose. The concept of entrepreneur and business was discussed in the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities Act, which in turn forms part of the Commercial Code. For example, when it comes to entrepreneurship, who is and who is not an entrepreneur, what are their rights, what are the rights of self-employed people, etc. The connection between the register of business and the register of economic activities was also discussed. For example, whether and how the commercial register should reflect the prohibition on economic activities imposed on members of the company's management board by the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities Act. Although the subject of the business register is also related to the register of economic activities, their relationship under the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities Act is not sufficiently clear. For example, the need for the consent of the competent person to be entered in the register of economic activities. These issues also include the issue of the licences proposed by the current Minister, on which we proposed that this list should be supplemented or even withdrawn, because this list is also not perfect in the draft law. Predictably, it must be said that the biggest battles probably lie ahead of the task force for their licences or, rather, for their annulment. The Commission discussed the timetable for further processing of the draft. The Minister of Justice, Hanno Pevkur, suggested that, since the draft had been so thoroughly dealt with before the first reading, the draft could be submitted to plenary for the first reading with the consent of the initiator of the draft as amended. As the minister was on leave the following week, it was thought that the first reading of the draft could have taken place on Wednesday 26 March of the following working week. However, it happened that no changes were submitted to the Commission and the working group (i am referring to the pure option) and so on 24 March the Commission decided on a procedural basis to make a consensual proposal to conclude the first reading at today's session and to set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 16 April at 17:00. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U130	Thank you. Any questions for the Committee on Economic Affairs? No, it's not. There's no call either. Honourable Riigikogu, the commission has proposed to finish the first reading of the draft 573. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 573 amendments. a 16 April at 5 p.m. First reading of Bill 573 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U131	The first reading of draft Act 610 on the ratification of the Final Acts of the 25th Congress of the World Postal Union initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Mr Urve Palo, Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, as the initiator's waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U132	Good afternoon, Mr President-in-Office. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic has submitted to the proceedings of the Riigikogu draft Act 610 on the ratification of the Final Acts of the 25th Congress of the World Postal Union. The World Postal Union, or UPU, is a UN special organization with 192 members. UPU was founded in 1874, and the Republic of Estonia has been a member of UPU since 7 July 1922, and our membership was restored on 30 April 1992. So it's an old tradition. UPU coordinates worldwide cooperation between postal service providers, establishes rules for the provision of international postal services and makes recommendations for the development and improvement of the quality of international postal services. In autumn 2012, the 25th UPU Congress was held. The purpose of the draft law is to ratify the general rules and the postal convention signed at the Congress. Such congresses are held regularly every four years. Congress is the highest body in the decision-making process of UPU, which determines the main policy of UPU, adopts a four-year strategic and financial plan and selects senior officials. The general rules are a document that organises the work of UPU and do not impose any additional obligations on Member States. However, the Postal Convention contains rules applicable to all international postal services and is binding on all Member States. Member States shall ensure that undertakings designated by them comply with their obligations under the Convention. Most of the provisions in place at the Congress were clarified and amended, for example by making it mandatory for Member States and their designated undertakings to ensure better protection and security of users' personal data on the basis of national legislation. This will improve the protection of the personal data of postal users and improve legal certainty for users. The Convention also regulated more clearly the security requirements for postal items and transnational cooperation on this issue. As the issue of safety and security in aviation is very sensitive, new modern requirements and regulations for air mail were developed. The Congress also adopted detailed provisions to promote e-commerce, which take into account the strong growth in the popularity of this type of trade and its potential for development. The ratification of the general rules and convention does not entail any additional costs for Estonia and does not foresee any increase in revenue from the state budget. Estonia's membership fee of EUR 34107 is foreseen in the budget of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The General Rules of the UPU and the Postal Convention entered into force on 1 January 2014 for the Member States of the UPU. The previous laws on the ratification of the general rules of UPU and the postal convention are repealed, as, in the interests of clarity of the legal order, the relevant law must also lapse if the foreign treaty expires. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U133	Any questions for the initiator of the bill? No, it's not. Thank you, Madam Secretary. For the presentation of the Committee on Economic Affairs, please address Olga Sõtnik.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U134	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister! The Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu discussed this draft at its meeting on Monday, 24 March. Elena Reilent of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications was also present, who gave an overview of the objectives of the draft law. There was a small discussion at the committee meeting. The members of the Riigikogu were interested in what Estonia would win with the draft. Elena Reilent's reply was that the UPU Convention contains all the rules for the provision of international postal services. Every four years there will be a congress where the provisions will be reviewed and, if necessary, clarified. If Estonia weren't a member of the World Postal Union, the mail wouldn't really move. It was also asked that if the Doha Congress, where these amendments were made, took place already in 2012, why Estonia did not ratify the final acts earlier. The answer was that it took UPU six months to complete the legislation, that translation started only in 2013, and that it took time for coordination. There was also a question of whether the ratification of the draft would lead to price increases. The answer was no. It was also wanted to know whether the bill solved this problem, that not all goods offered online are currently being brought to Estonia. For example, if you order Amazon from the environment, some things will not make it to Estonia. The answer was that UPU is dealing with the functioning of international e-commerce and hopefully these problems will be resolved in the near future. The Commission then took some decisions. First, I was appointed waitress, the Olga Stranger. Secondly, it was decided to put this draft on the plenary agenda by 9 April, i.e. today. Thirdly, we have a proposal to conclude the first reading of the draft and, fourthly, we propose that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 5 p.m. on 24 April. All these decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U135	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thanks a lot, Olga Soldier! Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. The Commission's proposal is that the first reading of draft 610 should be completed. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 610 amendments. 24 April 2010 at 5 p.m. First reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U136	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Water Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask for a presentation of the Chair's Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U137	Hello again, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the draft is to make it more flexible to regulate the construction of a building that is not permanently connected to the shore of a public water body. In order to burden a building which is not permanently connected to the shore of a public water body, an appropriate building permit must be issued in accordance with the Water Act. However, according to the current law, two applications for building permits cannot be processed at the same time. Nor can an application for a building permit be processed when a county planning is underway for the same area. The draft law makes the prohibition to initiate the building permit procedure more flexible and lays down provisions according to which the building permit procedure may also be initiated in certain cases where another building permit procedure or regional planning has already been initiated for the same area. More specifically, a change in the building permit allows certain simpler buildings to be dealt with even if the same water area is covered by the planning procedure. Such buildings are sports and recreational facilities of up to 60 square metres, which serve the beach on a permanent basis. The change is driven by an obstacle to building a so-called resort elephant in Pärnu, because the building permit cannot be accepted if the same area is the subject of a county plan which is currently underway due to Rail Baltic. The bill needs to be dealt with quickly, in particular because of the case of the Pärnu resort elephant, so that an appropriate building permit can be granted before the summer. For flexibility purposes, the decision to grant the building permit referred to in paragraph 1 shall be taken from the Government of the Republic to the ministerial level. The amendment also allows for a number of building permits to be processed in parallel for the same water area if the nature of the buildings makes it possible to build several buildings in the same area (e.g. intersecting pipelines). In essence, the grantor of the building permit is granted discretion, and the nature of the buildings makes it possible to consider the construction of several buildings in the same area. As has been said, according to the current law, only one application for building permits can be processed simultaneously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U138	Thank you very much. Any questions for the Minister? There are no questions. But still! Andrus Ansip, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U139	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! I want to know if the new regulation requires the coordination of the Air Force to place an elephant on Pärnu Beach. [[Laughter.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U140	Good questioner! As far as I know, the Authority doesn't need coordination.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U141	Thank you. Any more questions? No further questions. I would like to ask Annely Akkermann, Member of the Environment Committee, for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U142	Good afternoon, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Draft Law amending the Water Act 611 was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 10 March. The Board of the Riigikogu adopted this procedure on 11 March. The Committee on the Environment discussed the draft twice: on 17 and 24 March. At the meeting on 17 March, Hindrek Allvee, chief specialist at the Legal Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, presented the draft law amending the Water Act and answered questions from members of the Commission. The draft provides for greater flexibility in the construction of sports and recreation facilities serving the bathing beach. The changes have a positive impact on the development and use of coastal areas for recreation, tourism and sport purposes. The draft reduces red tape in building buildings for sport, tourism and leisure that are not permanently connected to the shores of public water bodies. I'm not going to repeat the minister again. On 17 March, it was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 26 March. This decision was amended on 24 March and proposed to be put on the plenary agenda for the first reading by 9 April today. On 17 March, it was decided to propose the completion of the first reading of the draft. On 17 March, it was also decided to set the deadline for the submission of draft amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 9 April 2014, but on 24 March this decision was amended and it was proposed to set the deadline for the submission of draft amendments at 16 p.m. on 11 April. It was also decided on 17 March that a member of the Environment Commission, currently speaking here, would be a rapporteur for the commission. All decisions were taken by consensus. That's all.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U143	Any questions for the co-rapporteur? There are no questions. Thank you, Annely Akkermann! Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. The Commission's proposal is that the first reading of draft 611 should be completed. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for tabling amendments to draft 611 at 16 a.m. on 11 April.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U144	Today's last item is the first reading of draft Act 612 amending the General Part of the Environmental Code Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. I'm asking for a presentation by the Secretary of the Environment of the Chair, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U145	Honourable Vice-President of Parliament. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! You are currently faced with the draft law amending the General Part of the Environmental Code and amending other laws in this respect. In short, the aim of the draft is to improve the availability of environmental information, and it would be more appropriate to say that the rules on the availability of this information are precisely laid down. Information about the environment is also now beautifully easily available in Estonia. However, there are some nuances in which our laws do not yet comply in detail with the requirements of the European Union's Environmental Information Directive. These are the minor shortcomings that we want to overcome with the bill before you. For example, we want to supplement the list of information that must not be refused. The list includes information on emissions into the environment. It should be pointed out that this information is now well available to all those asking for it, but the laws need to be brought into line with real life. The conditions for recognising environmental information as internal information shall also be specified. For example, environmental information can be recognised as internal information when disclosure could cause damage to intellectual property rights and even when the information is provided voluntarily to the State but the information provider does not agree to this disclosure. These clauses aim in particular at protecting people who may be affected by the disclosure of environmental information or whose interests would be harmed in any way. On the basis of the draft, even if a public authority may refuse to issue information, it must consider each time whether the interest in refusal to issue is outweighed by the public interest involved in the issue. So in the future, the state will have to explain its decisions more. In the case of information restricted to access, it is necessary to justify in the future both the decision to issue the information and the decision not to issue it. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! It's a very good bill. I ask you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U146	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U147	Thank you. Madam Minister! The explanatory memorandum states that the European Commission is referring Estonia to the Court of Justice of the European Union. If we adopt the bill as a law, is it not going to happen, or is the story going to continue?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U148	Thank you. Indeed, the Commission has brought to our attention that this directive must be transposed in detail into our law as a matter of urgency. We have informed the Commission that this draft has been submitted to Parliament by the government, and Parliament is discussing it. In all these situations, the fact is that, if Parliament adopts the draft as a law, of course, the Commission will no longer have any reason to argue with us, because then we will have fulfilled all the obligations and requirements.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U149	Thank you. Any more questions? There are no further questions for the Minister. I ask Tõnis Kõiv, Member of the Environment Committee of the Chair, for a co-report!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U150	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Environmental Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the draft law amending the General Part of the Environmental Code Act and related amendments to other laws at the meeting on 24 March. Triin Nymann, a lawyer of the Ministry of the Environment, who introduced the draft law, took part in the meeting. In addition to what the Minister was talking about here, I will speak in a few words about what happened in the Commission. As is well known, under European Union law, Member States must provide citizens with easy access to environmental information held by public authorities. As has already been mentioned, the European Commission believes that there are some shortcomings in Estonian law here. That's what we're going to do with this bill. The aim is to disclose as much environmental information as possible so that people who are interested in this subject can know what one or the other company is throwing into the environment, whether in the air or in the water, for example. However, in order to maintain the increased interest of these companies in providing their environmental information to public authorities on a voluntary basis, it seeks to protect legally the provider of the information provided voluntarily or without an obligation, not always by disclosing that information. The authorities are given discretion, they have to respect both the intellectual property rights of environmental information and the public interest, which may be linked to health protection, sometimes even the protection of human lives. Where there is a public interest, the information shall in any case be made public. The members of the Committee on the Environment were interested in what considerations could be considered when environmental information could not be disclosed and should be left for official use. In response, we have heard that, for example, when it comes to a description of a production process relating to business secrecy, it is an argument why this information should not be disclosed, but it must also be taken into account whether there is a public interest linked to the protection of human health or a risk to human health. In life, it is often the case that the environmental impact of one or the other operation may be within normal limits and is normal in terms of compliance, but for people who do not judge it by the norm, but based on what the nose feels or the eye sees, it may be a place of concern. The draft will help people to combat these disturbing activities by helping them to obtain information and, therefore, to fight this fight more successfully. The Committee on the Environment made a number of consensual decisions. Firstly, we decided to put draft 612 on the plenary agenda by 9 April, i.e. today; secondly, we decided to propose the end of the first reading of the draft, and thirdly, we have a proposal to set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at the meeting of 23 April at 1715-24 March, by consensus, a member of the Committee on the Environment, Kalle Palling, was appointed rapporteur, but this decision was similarly consensually amended in favour of the speaker of the Committee on the Environment at its meeting on 8 April, as Kalle Palling has left the Committee on the Environment and has moved to membership of the Committee on Economic Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-09_U151	Thank you very much. Any questions for the co-rapporteur? It's all clear. Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. The Commission's proposal is that the first reading of draft 612 should be completed. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 612 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 23 April. Today's agenda is exhausted. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 3.20 p.m.
