ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Prime Minister and ministers! Let's start the 23rd April briefing. First, we'll do a presence check. 42 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, no 59. The following members of the government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, Minister of the Interior Hanno Pevkur and Minister of Social Affairs Helmen Kütt.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U2	The first question will be asked by the member of the Riigikogu, Kaia Iva. The question is for Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, and it is about the budget. Please, Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U3	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am still concerned about the nature of the sources of cover for the promises of the new coalition agreement and the intention of introducing more national reserves. If we ever see a detailed plan, we will probably be able to ask more about this subject, but today I will focus on Loto Estonia and the admission of gambling advertising, which you have planned to generate additional revenue for the country with the help of Estonian Loto. It's known to be lottery gambling, though in a milder form than any other. But does the Prime Minister not see an ethical conflict when we encourage people to play gambling?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U4	Thank you. A more detailed plan that includes budget steps, both those that generate revenue and those that mean expenditure on the state budget can be seen, among other things, on the website of the Government of the Republic. I have also sent this table to some members of your group. I think they're willing to share it with you kindly. Coming to the question of whether or not Loto has the right to advertise itself and the risk of conflicting with moral principles here, when drafting this particular text of the law, it is important to bear in mind which advertising and how to make the lottery more popular and how to inform lottery winners. These aspects must certainly be monitored. You indicated that all forms of gambling, including softer gambling, could lead to a certain degree of dependence. I'm sure you're gonna have to watch it. However, according to the Ministry of Finance, it is clear that if Loto was allowed to advertise its products, it would also bring considerable additional revenue to the state budget. That's the step we're planning to take. I hope that the details will already be found in Parliament's proceedings.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U5	Thank you. Please, Kaia Iva, the first question to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U6	Thank you. Prime Minister! I still want to continue on the same subject. You admit there's a risk here. We know that the lottery is banned for people under 16 years of age precisely because it is gambling. These disputes have already been held in the Riigikogu. I would like to remind you that two years ago the Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu discussed this subject very thoroughly, he analysed it and maintained the view that sending a message with advertising, that you should come and play the lottery and hope that you will receive relatively simple money, is neither ethical nor appropriate. You have noted that it is planned to analyse to what extent, how much and how this advertising could be done. Should we not, however, examine this issue from the point of view that advertising a lottery, or an easy desire to receive money, is not ethical and should not be included in this advertising plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U7	Thank you. I am absolutely sure that Parliament has the opportunity to carry out an analysis. But I would point out, in addition to the option you proposed, 'Come and play the lottery! ' there is also potential for adverts where the odds of winning, as well as the probability of winning in one game or another, are reported. Sharing such information may also be advertising by law, and it is certainly not automatically unethical to allow it. In order for the law on this subject to become one that is acceptable to the Estonian public and eliminates any possible moral hazard, of course, work must be done both in the government and in the parliament. But I believe that we can do this with collective wisdom, and in the future lottery advertising will not be as irresponsible as there are now so many advertisements that consumer protection is forced to evaluate in its supervisory process.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U8	Thank you. Please, Kaia Iva, the second point of clarification!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U9	I specify that it is still possible for Loto, Estonia, to provide information about the size of the winnings. However, when other ads, as you described, are announced about the likelihood of winnings, and other such information is shared, the purpose of this is that people spend more money on lottery tickets. But I will continue with the subject. Another major area where you hope to get money is excise duties on alcohol and tobacco. I very much agree that alcohol should also be more difficult to access by allowing its price to be higher. My question, however, is about the Green Paper on alcohol, which we have just finished. It provides for restrictions on alcohol advertising in order to reduce consumption. Are there plans to move forward with these restrictions to reduce alcohol consumption?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U10	Thank you. I thank you for your support for the government's plan to raise excise duties on alcohol. Indeed, it is important that alcohol does not become relatively cheaper in the shop than in other goods, and also in view of the increase in wages, year after year, but that the availability of alcohol does not actually improve. That could be our minimum objective. Of course, it would be even better if alcohol became somewhat less accessible to people. As regards alcohol advertising, the Green Paper on alcohol policy proposes scenarios that can be considered. As you well know, the Green Paper is a place for ideas to come out. This does not mean that all the ideas that were presented there have been finally decided. I have my positions in place quite well, because I was the minister who brought the Green Paper on alcohol policy before the previous government. True, it was Hanno Pevkur, sitting at my right hand, who prepared this book largely and held inclusive discussions. Helmen Kütt, sitting on my right hand, is also the minister who can best implement this policy. On one thing, it seems to me, a broader consensus has already been found in society, namely that there is quite a consensus that outdoor alcohol advertising could be completely prohibited. Other possible restrictions are also under discussion. It is worth continuing the debate on them. If you ask any further questions, I can explain in more detail.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U11	Thank you. Two locally registered questions can now be submitted. We will limit ourselves to two issues, because six issues have been previously registered. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U12	Thank you. Prime Minister! Clearly, the budget needs money. At the same time, however, we allow the banks to move their profits out of Estonia exempt from tax, for example by supporting Swedish pensioners. We know that the commercial banks made some 440 million euros of net profit last year through the assets and savings of the Estonian people, while it is not known to anyone that banking services are among the most expensive in the Nordic countries. Restoring banks' income tax would represent an estimate of around EUR 117 million in the budget. With this money, many issues could be resolved: raise salaries, finance an ambulance, etc. What prevents you from taxing the profits of businesses, commercial banks?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U13	Thank you. In Estonia, all companies have the same tax rules: the part of the profits that are taken out of the company as a dividend has been taxed. When banks take the dividend, they pay taxes in Estonia too, of course. You mentioned last year's profit figures. At least, as far as I know, many banks in Estonia have not yet decided whether to pay the dividend on the profits of last year and withdraw part of the profits, or to invest all the profits in banking. When decisions are made that part of the profits will be taken out of the banks, there will certainly be significant tax receipts in the Estonian state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U14	Thank you. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U15	Thank you. Prime Minister! The situation with the state budget is very tense, the personal loans of government members have risen to heaven, foreign banks are hauling their profits out of Estonia. I wonder whether, as a young man, you should think about establishing a new banking system in Estonia that would work on the principle of a cooperative bank. This is what the mayor of Tallinn wants to do now. The creation of a cooperative bank could be on the agenda during your government, if you know something about the so-called content of a cooperative bank.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U16	It is not appropriate for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia to comment on all the foolish things that a mayor can do. As far as the creation of a bank is concerned, according to the rules in force in Estonia, the bank must have considerable capital. The only capital that has been said to be put into this municipal form of Tallinn (a bank cannot be called a bank under any law) is the political capital of the leading party in the city, which I do not consider to have any economic substance. As an investor, I would not dare to give money to this bank, nor would I dare to have any other financial relationship with that bank. Once again, there are certain laws in force in Estonia for financial institutions, which are very strict. This formation, which is said to be created in Tallinn and for which only the fact that some politicians have already been appointed to leading positions there, has no bank features according to the laws in force in Estonia. I wouldn't take such an institution seriously. As a Tallinnian, I would like to see the city government in my hometown deal with the problems that a city government has been calling for, for example, the renovation of the city's streets and the organisation of childcare. The government does not find time or money to deal with these topics and deals with strange topics. This isn't quite right.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U17	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U18	Thank you. Next, Ester Tuiksoo will ask the Social Minister Helmen Küti a question about the pay gap. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U19	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable Minister of Social Affairs! First of all, I would like to take this opportunity and wish you every success in this job. My questions are addressed to you as one of the current leaders of the Social Democratic Party, who are in ministerial position. The pay gap in Estonia is shamefully large compared to other countries of the European Union. Social Democrats have organised events in parks and the streets to draw attention to the need to reduce and eliminate the pay gap. You're part of the government department now. Do you think it would be more effective to fight against the pay gap than to be in government and to take action by shouting through the rupor?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U20	Thank you very much, good questioner. I am very pleased to answer this question because, indeed, the social democrats have considered the pay gap to be very important. I also very much welcome the fact that the new coalition agreement even contains points to address this issue. I believe that in this hall we will find support for this in every political party. However, I believe that both options deserve to be used. You have to call and inform people through the blind, but you also have to take action in the government. The Council, which by law should have been formed long ago, has now been formed. But the Council's order of business has to be changed a little bit. 75% is a very high rate of decision-making, which needs to be changed so that people who are present can take a decision, for example, if the participation is 51%. I consider it very important that, in the four years that the Social Democrats have dealt with this issue, society has been increasingly debating this issue. This is the only way to make changes. This is certainly not a fast process, as the wage gap in Estonia is 30%, while the European average is 16%. That's a problem. I read in Järva's Official Journal that it's called a pseudo-problem, actually it's not a pseudo-problem. This problem has profound consequences, especially for those who will receive a very small pension in the future. After all, those who now receive a small salary will receive a small pension in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U21	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo, the first question to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U22	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, good minister, for this promise. My second question is what level you want to reach by March 2015. What should be the pay gap among Estonian employees? Perhaps not only has this Council been formed, but you also have some kind of action plan that you can give an overview of?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U23	Thank you very much. To be quite precise, the Council formed the former Minister of Social Affairs and the current Prime Minister sitting next to me. We are trying to change the Commission's rules of procedure a little, so that its work is more flexible. Indeed, we have set out the plan and we will discuss the action plan at the next Commission meeting. It would not be responsible to say that this is a very urgent problem. If we could get this salmon down to 2%, that would be great. But I doubt it's gonna happen in 11 months. You see, in the meantime, the percentage was lower, but it increased again last year. So for three or four weeks at the ministerial office, I can't report the winnings yet. However, I can promise that this problem will be dealt with very seriously. One option which, however, alleviates the situation is also the increase in the minimum wage, as women are generally working for the minimum wage or the minimum wage. But this, of course, does not significantly reduce the pay gap.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U24	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo, the second point of clarification!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U25	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Minister, for that answer. Indeed, 2% is very low. If you set such small targets, the situation really does not improve very quickly. But I suggest you come up with more effective measures. Here's another problem. For example, the difference between the hourly fee of a skilled worker in Põlva County and Harju County is about 23%. Could this be dealt with by this Council, or do you have any plans to reduce the regional hourly pay gap or pay gap between skilled workers? They do the same work all over Estonia, but pay varies. You rightly said that a small salary will also have an effect on retirement.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U26	Thank you for that question. If we could narrow this gap by 2% in 11 months, it would be very good. From now on, it will certainly be possible to say the bigger figures. But when it comes to different pay in different places, the key to fighting the pay gap is largely in employers' pockets. It is probably not possible to require private entrepreneurs to pay the same salary across Estonia; such a requirement cannot be imposed. However, we have seen that wage numbers are really different across Estonia, that is correct. For the same work, you can receive a significantly lower hourly rate in a smaller place where there are fewer employers, but still enough. It is true that this fee does not fall below the minimum rate, i.e. the minimum hourly rate, but these fees are very different. But I don't think there's any way to get involved at government level here. What can we do to reduce the pay gap? On the one hand, of course, there is a need to talk about it, but on the other hand, there is a need to motivate people and also to call on employers to make changes. They say men dare ask for more money, women don't. Information is also quite important.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U27	Thank you. Now two issues registered on the spot. First, Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U28	Thank you, Madam President. Minister of Social Affairs! I want to wish you luck too! I would point out that this is a historic moment, because there are three social ministers in the government box. You must have the courage to be in a government that has so many competent colleagues. But I don't really understand what real levers the government has in order to narrow the gender pay gap. You can't assign men to one salary and women to another. It's just that in certain areas of life, pay is lower and mostly women work there. How can you even change that? Propaganda and noise aren't enough here for me. I can't even see the punch myself. However, how to get propaganda to some real government level is, in my opinion, a really difficult issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U29	Thank you for that question. It's really safe for me to sit between two former social ministers. If today the Riigikogu were to chair the session of Eiki Nestor, there would even be four people here who have either been the Minister of Social Affairs in the past or have been the Minister of Social Affairs in the past. But now to the answer. The procedures for the collection of gender-based work statistics and the Gender Equality Act adopted in 2004 provide that these data must be made public and monitored. The possibility of public data monitoring may also motivate certain employers who do not want to look bad and therefore pay a better salary. That's one way. Secondly, the subject of the next elections will certainly be when a higher proportion of women emerges in the lists and, later on, in the decision-makers. But I don't want to make it look like it's just a woman's problem. This is certainly also a problem for men, in certain sectors, such as schools or kindergartens, more men should work. This cannot only be seen as a problem for women; in certain areas it can also be acutely a problem for men.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U30	Thank you. Dear former and current Minister of Social Affairs, you must now accept the former Minister of Culture. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U31	Thank you. Dear Minister, I attended a conference on pay gap in Pärnu in spring, which was very meaningful and educational. I've also been out on the streets doing campaigns myself, as if the subject is more aware of it. I wouldn't say at all that this issue is making any noise, rather a lot of people think it's a pseudo-issue. This is actually wrong, because in many cases people with the same qualifications receive very different salaries, women receive fewer and men receive more. For example, it has been pointed out in the business sector that women receive 40% less pay than men. This issue is very serious. How do you break this myth of a pseudo-problem so that this problem can be taken much more seriously?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U32	Thank you. There have been forums and meetings on pay salmon in Estonia, also in my home town of Viljandi. But in Pärnu, the subject was really openly and honestly spoken about. I think that the best way to understand this issue is by looking at it on a family level. When a son and a daughter grow up in a family, parents certainly do not want to know in advance that their daughter's chances in the future are worse than that of a son. Going to employers now, I think that the more women involved in decision-making processes, the more women in councils, the more balanced and fairer choices are made. I think we need to talk about this as much as possible. It is likely that the new generation will grow with the knowledge that equal work will receive equal pay, regardless of gender. However, I do not think that raising wages can be the only basis for raising wages, so we should also look at how the work is done, and for those working well, a premium should be paid, again regardless of gender.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U33	Thank you. I will conclude the debate on this issue because two locally registered questioners have asked their questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U34	The third question is from Sven Sester to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. Again, we are talking about the state budget. Please, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U35	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! I'm coming back to the state budget and mostly to the reserves. This subject, I think, is interested in everyone who respects conservative monetary policy and the knowledge that we can only spend on those revenues that are foreseen and what we are forecasting. I was prompted by the words of the Minister for Finance to say that, in the coming years, including until 2017, there will be a reduction in reserves of up to EUR 569 million. The number has come out of his mouth. However, looking at the activities of the last few weeks and last month, it can be seen that he has found, like a magician, 170 million extra incomes somewhere. I reject the question of the legitimacy of these revenues. Rather, I wonder whether, in the present situation, certain costs that are intended to be incurred in the near future should not be reduced and that reserves should be increased with these new revenues.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U36	Thank you. Good questioner! This statement, which you attributed to the Minister of Finance, is actually based on an economic forecast prepared by the Ministry of Finance, which is based on the assumption that the government will not take steps to improve the budgetary position and reduce the deficit. Today, however, we already know (I have also told you from this remote control in previous weeks) that the government has decided to take steps to improve positions for quite several years in advance, which means that the balance of the government budget, as well as the balance of the central government's budget, will certainly improve, and this figure in the forecast will not be correct after these decisions. If we look at the economic forecast to be made in the summer, in the hope that by then the government will have arrived, with the help of Parliament, of course, and with decisive participation, to legitimise a number of steps that will improve the budgetary position, we will see that there is already a much better picture for us. We are working to ensure that we do not have to use reserves as much as the forecast anticipated. We're improving the balance compared to the forecast.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U37	Thank you. Sven Sester, the first question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U38	Thank you, Madam President. It is good to hear that at least you have the will to improve the forecast levels. But at the same time, i.e. during the improvement of forecasting levels, you are actually creating an opportunity for new potential costs. I am not going to hold a discussion here about whether or not they need to be done. Rather, I wonder if you think that in the coming years the reserves will shrink, though no longer in the amount of EUR 569 million, but by some other amount. Are we still in a situation where our revenues are now and in the coming years lower than our costs? In this case, however, the question is whether, in the context of improving budgetary positions, we should reduce certain types of expenditure.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U39	Thank you. Based on current knowledge (of course economic forecasts and circumstances may change), we will be able to reach a nominal balance in the coming years. This means that reserves should not decrease. At the same time, it must always be taken into account that there is also the other half of the debt burden. For example, next year, our reserves will be slightly reduced according to current plans, but at the same time, the debt burden will also decrease. Therefore, the net position cannot be characterised by just one side. If a deficit needs to be covered, each government has a choice as to whether to do so at the expense of reserves or to increase the debt burden. My view is that the most sustainable plan is still to balance the budget so that neither reserves should be reduced nor the debt burden increased.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U40	Thank you. Please, Sven Sester, another supplementary question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U41	Thank you, Madam President. That's right. True, if our costs exceed income, there are two options: either to take up reserves or to borrow from someone else. We really don't have any more options. My question was whether if we were to improve the positions of our sources of cover, perhaps making legislative changes that bring more revenue, we could and should take steps in parallel to reduce our potential costs. Should we be conservative in this context? We want to do two things now: to improve positions, to gain more revenue and, in parallel, to increase certain costs. Perhaps we should review the cost side during this period. If you are able to speak immediately to us members of the Riigikogu about measures that will clearly improve positions in the coming years, please be nice. But do you think we could go over the costs?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U42	Thank you. If Parliament has any proposals that could lead to a reduction in costs, I will be happy to listen to them. However, I would stress that next year the budget is already in structural surplus on the basis of decisions already taken. If you answer directly the question of what are the measures that can be taken by Parliament to improve positions before we decide to increase child benefit and lower unemployment insurance contributions, then it must be said that yes, these measures also exist. The draft raising child benefits is on its way to Parliament, but Parliament is already in the process of reducing tax fraud and increasing VAT receipts. We've started this with the IRL. Now we can move it forward together and make it a law. Previous questioners pointed out that measures to improve the budgetary position were also an increase in excise duties on alcohol and tobacco. They also have a long-term impact and bring more money to the state budget. To make the picture clear to everyone, we have put these corrective measures in table form on the government's website. I also sent this table by e-mail to your benchmate, who, I believe, will be happy to share it with you so that you can look by line at what measures can be added and whether the structural surplus we have planned for next year can be increased further. If you have these proposals, I am grateful for them.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U43	Thank you. Now two issues registered on the spot. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U44	Thank you. Prime Minister! I'll continue on the banks. Maarja Lõhmus, media researcher at the University of Tartu, has spoken about the taxation of bank profits. I will read his comment: 'The Reform Party has been a successful project for profit making for Estonian citizens from the beginning and has continued to be a successful project for Estonian citizens from foreign capital to e. banks. " He asks: " How can it be that the transformation of value added into foreign capital profits has been one of the main programme goals of the party for 20 years and the party itself has not challenged the direction? " What do you say to a respected lecturer? Is that why you don't like cooperative banks and so jealously protect commercial banks? I give the example that over half of the residents in Finland are members of a cooperative bank.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U45	Thank you. No, I certainly have nothing against the cooperative bank as such, but I am opposed to Tallinn's city power, rather than dealing with road holes and kindergartens, doing substitution activities and playing bank managers, for which neither the mayor nor the deputy mayor nor the other people who belong to the so-called bank council really fit. But in answer to your question about the banks' profits, it has been used very differently in different years. There have been years when all profits have been reinvested in Estonia and very many loans have been taken in Estonia. All this money has remained in Estonia and it is visible in the Estonian economy. This is, of course, the decision of the banks themselves. If they sense that they have enough accumulated profits and it is time to take some of the money out of business, not keep it in the Estonian market, then I believe that they will have to pay income tax on it. I am quite sure that the time when banks operating in Estonia withdraw profits, even partially, and pay tax on it is not far off.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U46	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U47	Thank you. Prime Minister! I'm sorry you haven't gotten out of municipal politics and you don't understand that you're running the country. In other parts of the world, it must be unthinkable that the Prime Minister before the parliament has a local government, but in Estonia it has become a custom. Now my question. The new coalition has decided to patch up the state budget instead of the asphalt holes. In particular, the resources for road maintenance were reduced by EUR 25 million. This is, in my opinion, economic stupidity, because the road repair that has not been repaired at the right time will cost many times more in the future. Why are you doing this and leaving a broken road for inheritance?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U48	Thank you. When I say that as a member of the government and as a tallinian, I do not agree with what the political leadership of Tallinn is doing, that does not mean that I would bother the local government. I'm a very many generations of tallinian and I love my hometown. But the activities of the power of your home town, which your party partner asked me about, I consider it a substitute activity, but this is precisely the subject that you rightly pointed out, the asphaltia holes on the streets of Tallinn, we all feel that this is a big problem, but also the scarcity of day-care centres. As a resident of Põlva, you may not feel it so directly, but you will probably see the problem of the lack of kindergarten places in Tallinn, according to young families. Of course, it is inappropriate that instead of dealing with these burning municipal problems, the city's power deals with propaganda, including the creation of fictitious institutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U49	Thank you. We have finished addressing this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U50	Next is Marika Tuus-Laul's question to Minister of Social Affairs Helmen Hunter. The subject is people with disabilities. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U51	Thank you. A very respected good colleague and current minister. My question concerns the forthcoming work capacity reform. The day before yesterday, the Estonian Association of People with Disabilities with reduced mobility spoke out in sharp terms, with nearly 43000 people. They said that a lot of money will be spent on this reform, which will be used for restructuring, advice and so on. They're huge sums. At the same time, however, the basic problem of how to create the services necessary for working is not addressed. All of this is left on the shoulders of the local governments. It is also a question of money to compensate for the additional costs of disability, which is a particularly acute problem. How do you comment on this question?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U52	Thank you very much for this question. Indeed, the Estonian Association of People with reduced mobility celebrated its 25th birthday and I participated in this event with a good colleague, Urmas Kruus, who is directly involved in this reform. As Minister of Social Affairs, I am particularly engaged in services. The problems that the EU has raised do indeed exist. We've called a round table by April 25th, where we're gonna talk about all this. 100,000 disabled people of working age could go to work and it is important for them to be able to do so using European Union money. We and probably people with special needs themselves do not agree that they do not have the opportunity to get into work. Services are extremely important, because when people are advised and offered active labour market measures, but are unable to work due to a lack of transport, the money is, like, thrown down. This reform must go hand in hand with the development of social services. Certainly not all this burden must be imposed on the municipalities, although in many places in Tallinn, Tartu, Viljandi and many other municipalities, where there is administrative capacity and probably also money, and when choosing priorities, people with special needs are taken into account, many services are available. It makes no sense for us to simply make use of the European Union's instruments, which are intended to guarantee services and access, so that there will be a huge cost for local authorities in 2020. However, I would argue that the state budget must take into account that even after the European Union's resources have ended, these people need support and better services, and only local authorities cannot guarantee this.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U53	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Sing, the first point to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U54	Thank you. Good minister! The PRM association, and certainly all persons with disabilities, is of the opinion that they do not support the replacement of disability pension by a disability allowance that will be reduced depending on income. At present, the pension is spent on the costs of working (transport, helpers, etc.), but now they have to pay in full for a service whose use is unavoidable due to disability. In essence, I have the same question as the previous one. But I'm still asking. If the work capacity reform has to go along with the development of services, how do you intend to do it, where will the money come from and how will it happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U55	Thank you very much. This reform has indeed been prepared for a long time, involving interest groups such as the Chamber of People with Disabilities, etc. But I read from their address that they claim that involvement has been limited and that people have certain fears and questions. Perhaps, in the interests of publicity, it should be said that the so-called disability pension actually disappears. We're not talking about disability support, it's not going away. But it's really very small, it's been the same size for decades. However, if a person earns more than EUR 1004, he or she will lose his or her disability allowance in the future. According to the current plan, starting with a income of EUR 640, this support would start to decrease, but it would not disappear. In view of how many people work for a minimum wage in Estonia, if the disability allowance starts to decrease only from EUR 640 and the services added to that allowance, I think that the lives of many people with special needs and currently receiving disability pensions will be better in the future, and their income will rather increase. It is very important that the development and reform of services go hand in hand. The new system will not apply immediately. It is therefore right to draw attention to the weaknesses of the reform now that we can make further changes, and when the reform starts, it will be possible to react very quickly. But yes, you have God's right that reform and the development of services must go hand in hand.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U56	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-lauul, the second point of clarification!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U57	Thank you. Good minister! I also very much hope that this reform will succeed. Let us recall the previous reforms. In 2004, when it was also an individual approach and consideration for everyone, all of this was essentially a failure. The system created during Maret Maripuu, when man's own completed papers determined the degree of trees, failed quite completely. In fact, the key issue is where these jobs come from. Surely some of these people cannot work full - time, they can only work part - time. Where are the entrepreneurs who come to meet these people? This is a key issue, whether this reform succeeds or not depends on it. It's very nice when people with disabilities get a job, but I don't see any of these jobs anywhere. In addition, I ask whether there are plans to increase disability support.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U58	Thank you very much for your question. This morning, there was a meeting of the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund. We agree that the key issue for launching this reform is jobs. As I said in the first reply, when people are advised and provided with services, but there are no jobs, this reform has failed. This work done with employers is extremely important. Meelis Paavel today gave an overview of active labour market measures and training and information for employers. The creation of such good practices is one of their priority activities this year, until the middle of next year when the reform takes place. It is absolutely right that this reform will not succeed without jobs and services.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U59	Thank you very much. Now two issues registered on the spot. Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U60	Thank you. Dear Minister, Should public authorities and local authorities not set an example and employ people with partial employment capacity? I have a good example of Sweden. When I was an advisor to the Minister of Social Affairs more than ten years ago, two ministers in Sweden had deep visual impairments and did very well in their work, the two of them did one job together. I know that people with reduced mobility have been employed in the Ministry of Social Affairs. Are the ministries going to set an example here? I met with the board of the blind union yesterday, and they proposed a lot of work that could be done by the visually impaired and the blind.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U61	Thank you for that question. I think that providing good examples that people with special needs are very conscientious and very good workers encourages other employers to employ people with special needs. The House of Disabled People has recognised employers who offer jobs to these people. I think that the public sector should and could serve as an example here, and precisely by writing and talking about it by these people themselves, not by reporting by the ministries. On the other hand, it should be taken into account that many people with special needs are certainly working, and their diagnosis is still a personal matter. After all, we do not know how many there are, we only know that nearly 40% of people who are working on disability pensions work. I have great respect for people's privacy, because the special need is not only a sick hand or leg, but may be due to some other disease, such as diabetes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U62	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U63	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In addition to the reform of the working capacity of disabled people, in the last three years, you and many other people in this Chamber have been touched by the way in which we notice children with special needs before they reach adulthood, we start with it in kindergarten and go through school. Unfortunately, it is not noted that a partial change in the composition of the Government of the Republic would have led to any concrete positive steps here. There are quite interesting sentences in the coalition agreement, but unfortunately the documents have so far given no hope. I know you're up to speed on this. Can you confirm about your area of activity that the attention and support of children with special needs starting from kindergarten and continuing throughout school time has not disappeared from your priorities?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U64	Thank you very much for this question. I met with the Minister for Education and Research on Monday on the subject of children's education and also their kindergartens. It's very important. I assure you that this issue has not disappeared from our priorities, and in due course we may already be able to show results. This issue is very important and it is well-needed to find a solution here. Either way, we're working on it. I thank the members of the Riigikogu very much for their questions. I'm afraid I won't be able to answer Margus Tsahkna again, but it's very nice to be in the role of an answerer when you've always been in the role of a questioner. Then you'll understand how it feels. I assure you, it's very healing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U65	Thank you. We will conclude the debate on this subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U66	Let's go to the next subject. The fifth questioner is Mailis Reps, who asks Prime Minister Taavi of the Clothes about train traffic. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U67	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! Let us perhaps try to mutually return from municipal policy to the Prime Minister's level. On Sunday evening, many of those who wanted to take the train from Lelle to the capital had to wait for the next train, as the train full of wood simply did not fit more people. It has been repeated that the train driver and the customer attendant were likely to take the most appropriate decision in this situation. However, there is no way to agree with the words of the head of the state-owned company, Elron, that people have to accept the fact that not every time they get on the train. Do you really think that such words are appropriate and in line with the transport development plan, and people, for example, should consider the fact that they want to travel from Viljandi to Tallinn that they often have to wait for the next train? What message did you give him?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U68	Thank you. Those specific words also led me to wonder. At the same time, it is important to look at the context. The arrival of new trains has greatly increased the popularity of train travel among Estonian people. We are well aware that a few months ago, quite serious children's diseases occurred in the renewed train traffic. However, all those people who use trains every day and with whom I have spoken have said that the difference is like night and day, the situation has become much better. I've been looking at statistics on the number of train passengers that have increased. For example, the use of paid-up public transport in Tallinn increased by 1 to 2% in different estimates, but new trains, or better quality in train traffic, have brought more than a third more people to the trains. This is a significant increase, and perhaps these so-called children's diseases have also inevitably been involved in getting new trains running. But once again, most of the passengers on the train have expressed their satisfaction, and they have seen a significant improvement in quality. I very much hope that there will also be lessons to be learned and serious conclusions drawn from cases where people have had to wait for the next train.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U69	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps, the first detailing question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U70	Thank you, Mr President. As Prime Minister, I'm sure you haven't had the opportunity to drive public transport, but I strongly recommend that you do so. Just so you know, you may not be familiar with the fact that you can also take the train free of charge within Tallinn. This is one reason why people in Nõmme, for example, are very happy to use trains. But you said that you had the words of Elron's leader freaked out. I hope that, in addition to the odds, the Prime Minister will in the future also have a desire to speak to the leader of Elron on this issue or to take concrete steps. The second part of the interview must have caused many others to wonder. There was talk about Elron getting two new trains, which should ease the lack of rolling stock a little. On the other hand, however, it was emphasized that it was not so easy to get more and uncoupled cars and that if there was a musical event in one place or another, it might not mean that more cars would be added. Do you think that's justified?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U71	Thank you. The organisers of public transport will probably also have reason to consider the event of major events. But I've used a lot of public transports in my life, too, and I've left behind full-blown trolls and buses. I have not missed the train in Estonia; in Estonia the train traffic was in a rather poor condition until recently, but I have also missed the train abroad because it has been full of wood. Getting the first train on the London subway during rush hour is virtually impossible. I am not saying that this should be the case in Estonia, certainly not. But I've had cases like this with public transport. What's the conclusion? I believe that the acquisition of new trains has certainly been the right step for the country. It has brought more people on trains and made train traffic faster and more comfortable. If the spring season leads to an additional increase in the number of passengers, do we need to draw conclusions on the timetable? Yes, of course. It must be borne in mind that when more people are travelling by train, a more precise schedule is needed and if necessary, changes must be made. Should this schedule be prepared and the leaders of the train company reprimanded by the Prime Minister personally, I doubt that. There must have been other people hired to do it pretty well.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U72	It is now possible to ask one brief question and get a brief answer to it. Mailis Reps, second point, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U73	Thank you. In connection with the accident in Raasiku, the public has raised the question of the safety of crossings. When discussing this, have you and the heads of the state company come to conclusions here and, if so, which ones?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U74	Thank you. It was an extremely unfortunate accident, all the more so since it was planned to install a barrier on this crossing in the second half of the summer. Whether the barrier could have prevented this accident is early to say. The investigation is ongoing, and we will definitely find out more about the causes of the accident. But the quick conclusion is that a barrier must be installed at this crossing as soon as possible. This can be done by Midsummer Day, so the Estonian Railway has assured me. All other crossings that are similar to Raasik's crossing point, on the Tallinn railway, there are six of them by memory, should receive a barrier during this summer. Whether the barrier prevents all accidents is very difficult to say, but it will certainly make the situation safer.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U75	Thank you very much. Today's Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U76	Good afternoon, good fellows. We will begin the session of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday of the 12th working week. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. Please, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U77	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll give you an inquiry... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I'm going to brief the Prime Minister. Its subject relates to what was discussed today in Question Time. The question of questioning is the future prospects of the state budget and the state reserves. From the last speeches by Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi, it has turned out that it is estimated that up to EUR 569 million will be taken from reserves by the end of 2017, which means that during this period, our expenditure will exceed this amount of revenue. Moreover, the Ministry of Finance has stated in the spring forecast that already in 2014, revenue is expected to fall by 32 million euros and revenues will decrease in the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U78	Good waitress, I'm sorry! Dear colleagues, I ask for silence in the Chamber, otherwise we cannot proceed with the hearing!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U79	The members of the IRL Group of Members of the IRL Group have written a number of questions for the Prime Minister. These mainly concern economic forecasts and cost-benefits. We want to know what are the plans, what measures will be taken in a situation where we are going to live and, in fact, we are already living beyond our means. Does the Prime Minister have an understanding of how to change this situation and rebalance the budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U80	The speech chair of the Riigikogu, Yana Toomi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U81	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Centre Party Group, I have the honour to address an inquiry to the Minister of Social Affairs, Helmen Hunt. What's to deny here, we've been in correspondence for a long time and we've been asking questions, but we still haven't gotten any answers to our questions. Now let's count on the new minister. Last year, we addressed the Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi and Auditor General Alar Karise with an inquiry into the guidance material "Child Welfare Tool for Child Protection Workers' developed by NGO Family and Children's Advisory Centre. The Ministry of Social Affairs supported its completion with EUR 25000, while the guidance material was strongly criticised. Based on Professor Aleksander Pulver's expert assessment, incorrect questionnaires have been used in the evaluation manual of the Family and Children's Advisory Centre...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U82	Good waitress, I'm sorry! Please stop introducing the questioning because the two of us are making so much noise here that we're interrupting our colleagues' talks. So please, we're even! Please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U83	... and scaled in all conceivable aspects, thereby violating copyright, psychometry and also diagnostic evaluation rules and practices. In addition to the substantive inconsistencies in the guide material, there is still uncertainty about the fulfilment of the terms of the contract concluded between the Ministry of Social Affairs and the NGO Pereide and Children's Advisory Centre, the financing of the NGO, the content and volume of the guide material and the procedures of the supervisory procedure. In this regard, we have four questions for Mrs Hunter. I sincerely hope that this practice, when the answer to the inquiry is finally written by the same official we are asking about, will be terminated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U84	Riigikogu speech chair Maimu Bergi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U85	Mr. President! Dear Riigikogu! I have a small draft to present: the amendment of the Riigikogu decision 'Construction of the Estonian Parliamentary Assembly of the Security and Cooperation Organisation of Europe'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U86	Dear colleagues, on behalf of the Bureau, I have adopted one draft and two inquiries. The Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing in accordance with our Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Now, let's do the presence check. 83 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 18.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U87	Let us begin the processing of today's agenda items. The first item is the third reading of Bill 403 of the Law on Conformity of Products, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and related amendments to other Acts. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? There's no call. We can go to the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 403 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. There are 80 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents or abstentions. Draft 403 of the Act amending the Product Compliance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other Acts has been adopted as a law. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U88	Let's move on to the second item. The second reading of draft 634 of the Riigikogu's decision "Construction of a Special Anti-Corruption Commission' submitted by the Social Democratic Party Group begins. I ask for a presentation of Riigikogu Chair member of the Constitutional Committee Väino Linde!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U89	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, I am fortunate and happy to say that we examined this draft on 21 April in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and prepared it for a second reading. It turned out that our ladies and gentlemen from the Group of the Social Democratic Party had also tabled an amendment to this draft on behalf of their group and party. The Commission unanimously supported this amendment. The Commission itself also proposed an additional amendment on the basis of the referral of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. IRL also wanted to make adjustments to which members of the political group belong to the special anti-corruption committee of the Riigikogu. We decided to merge these proposals under point 1 of this draft, which we also amended in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. You are all aware that we will appoint Mr Andres Anvelt as a member of the Special Anti-Corruption Committee and replace Mr Jaak Allik as an alternate member, Mr Kalvi Tõvi, Mr Helmen Kütt as a member of the Special Committee, Mr Etti Kagarov, and Mr Jaak Allik, instead of Ms Liisa-Ly Pakosta, we will appoint Mr Ken-Marti Vaher and Mr Andres Jalak as an alternate member. This decision shall enter into force upon signature. I believe that we can put this draft to a final vote today, as the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has already decided in its meeting on 8 April. I also believe that tomorrow's special committee will be able to continue its work and dive into a serious dive, because in the meantime there had been a small break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U90	Thank you. Do the co-workers have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. We will begin the examination of the amendments to draft 634. The first amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is that this amendment should be fully taken into account. A second amendment has been tabled by the lead committee. We have examined the amendments. The position of the lead committee is that draft decision 634 should be put to a final vote at second reading. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 634 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. There are 75 members of the Riigikogu, no one against, one abstention. Draft 634 of the Riigikogu's decision "Construction of the Special Committee against Corruption' submitted by the Social Democratic Party Group has been adopted as a decision. The second item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U91	Let's move on to the third item. The second reading of the draft Act amending the Packaging Act and the Packaging Excises Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I would like a presentation by Tõnis Kõiv, Member of the Environment Committee of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U92	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the draft law amending the Packaging Act and the Packaging Excise Duty Act was completed on 29 January and the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 5.15 p.m. on 12 February. The members of the Riigikogu, political groups and other committees did not propose amendments to the draft, while the Committee on the Environment itself finalised nine amendments to the draft. Between the first reading and the second reading, the draft was dealt with three times at Commission meetings: 11 February, 7 April and 14 April. Representatives of the Association of Estonian Waste Operators, the Estonian Cities Association, the Estonian Employers' Confederation, the Estonian Association of Rural Governments, the Producer Responsibility Organisation, Tallinn Environmental Board and Tallinn Waste Centre participated in the meeting of the Environment Committee on 11 February. At the meeting on 7 April, representatives of the Estonian Re-use Organisation and Audit Council submitted their proposals for the draft. The representatives of the Ministry of the Environment have, of course, participated in all the meetings of the Commission which dealt with the draft. Now I am talking about the amendments. Amendments 1, 7 and 8 relate to the elimination of a possible constitutional contradiction in the determination of packaging material. In particular, representatives of the Tax and Customs Board took part in the meeting of the Commission on 11 February, who drew the members of the Commission's attention to the possible contradiction with § 4 (2) of the Packaging Excise Act with § 113 of the Constitution. Pursuant to § 4 (2) of the Packaging Excise Act, the procedure for determining the packaging material is established by the Minister of the Environment. However, packaging material is an important element in determining excise duties on packaging, as the excise duty rate depends on the type of material. Since, pursuant to § 113 of the Constitution, only the Riigikogu has the right to choose tax types and objects, which is required by law to lay down all the elements of the tax liability which result in tax liability, may be contrary to the Constitution if the Minister of the Environment, acting as the representative of the executive power, determines one of the essential elements of the tax liability pursuant to § 4 (2) of the Packaging Act. In their assessment, the Tax and Customs Board has the possibility to issue a tax ruling against companies that have pointed out this constitutional problem. Understandably, this contradiction has not been verified in court. So it is not possible to state clearly whether there is a contradiction with the Constitution or not. However, in order to eliminate this possible contradiction, § 3 (3) of the Packaging Act as amended by Amendment 1 and the types of packaging material are laid down at the level of the Act. As a result of Amendment 1, the following amendments have been made to the Packaging Excise Act: Amendment 7 repeals § 4 (2) of the Packaging Excise Act, which authorised the Minister for the Environment to establish a procedure for determining the packaging material (section 2 (1) in the text of the second reading). In addition, amendment No 8 is supplemented by subsection 4 (3) of the Packaging Excise Act, which refers to subsection 3 (3) of the Packaging Act, which establishes the types of packaging material, and paragraph 4 which states that if the packaging consists of several materials, the material of which the weight fraction is the largest in the packaging composition shall be considered to be the material of the packaging. Amendment 5 amends the title and the first paragraph of § 241 supplementing the Packaging Act by replacing the word 'package audit' with 'audit control of the data submitted to the packaging register' by point 23 of § 1 of the draft (in the text of the draft second reading § 1 of the draft). According to the Board of Auditors, the word 'package audit' can be misleading; however, the audit of 'data in the packaging register' is more accurate and accurate and does not give a misleading impression of the content of this activity. This change is due, inter alia, to the fact that the term 'package audit' does not necessarily reflect the actual content of the taking-up method correctly: the subject of the inspection is not packaging but a packaging report. Similarly, "security-enhancing work" cannot be called an audit, which is by its nature a job of great security. There is a difference as to whether it is simply a job of security or a job of great security. This amendment will give effect to the provision on auditing of data in the packaging register from 1 January 2015. The need for an implementing provision is due to the fact that, in the case of verification of the data to be submitted to the packaging register, sworn auditors are engaged in work which requires agreement and development of a methodology. The Audit Board and the Ministry of the Environment need time to train sworn auditors and entrepreneurs, as well as to produce guidance material. This proposal, presented by the Committee on the Environment, has been finalised on the basis of a proposal from the Board of Auditors. Amendment 6 amends subsections 33 (4) and (6) of the Packaging Act, which is amended by subsection 29 of § 1 of the draft law. If, according to the draft submitted, the Estonian Tax and Customs Board was an out-of-court practitioner in cases of non-compliance with restrictions on the presence of heavy metals in packaging (§ 28 of the Packaging Act), the Estonian Tax and Customs Board is a non-judicial practitioner of misdemeanours in matters of non-compliance with the obligation to re-use packaging waste (§ 29 of the Packaging Act) and non-compliance with the obligation to take back and recall of packaging and packaging waste (§ 30 and § 33 (4) of the Packaging Act). The amendment has also changed the competence of urban and rural governments to deal with misdemeanours in an out-of-court manner and excludes their right to deal with non-compliance with restrictions on the content of heavy metals in packaging. Like I said, it's going to be tax and customs law. This amendment, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, has been drafted on the basis of a proposal from the Ministry of the Environment. Amendments 2 to 4 introduce technical amendments to subsections 5, 8 and 10 of the draft for reasons of legal clarity. Amendment No 2 specifies subsection 1 (5) of the draft, additional paragraph 31 (4) of § 16 of the Packaging Act and provides that the packaging undertaking shall provide a certificate of the recovery of packaging waste to a person entitled to supervision, the details of which are given in subsection 32 of the same section. The question here is simply how to call these documents more correctly. Amendment 3 clarifies the wording of subsection 17 (4) (5) of the Packaging Act, which is amended by subsection 8 of § 1 of the Bill, and makes a new point, no 6 from the second part. In addition, the wording of point 7 of that paragraph is specified. Amendment 4 clarifies the wording of subsection 43 of the Supplementary Packaging Act, section 1 (10) of the Bill, and sets out it as points, and makes a separate paragraph 44 from the last sentence. Amendment 9 complements § 3 of the draft, according to which § 1 (11) of the draft will enter into force on 1 January 2015. This proposal of the Committee on the Environment has been drafted on the basis of the proposal of the Estonian Re-use Organisation of NGO. In addition, technical and linguistic changes have been made to the draft, which in no case alter the content of the draft. At its meeting on 14 April, in addition to voting on these proposals, the commission made a decision to put the draft on the agenda of the Riigikogu's plenary session for the second reading by today, 23 April, and to propose that the second reading be stopped. When the second reading is completed, we have a proposal to send the draft to the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U93	You have questions. Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U94	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! A famous yellow "Crazy Days" plastic bag has become a symbol of this whole issue in Estonian consumer society, even used as a symbol at the President's anniversary reception. In many European countries, the introduction of biodegradable plastic bags and packaging has been particularly boosted over the last two years. Does the Environment Committee in general intend to regulate this issue mainly by means of excise duty, or have you also discussed consumer information campaigns to increase awareness of society and more use of, for example, reusable bags? In many ways, this bill seems to be a question of plastic bags, plus, of course, the other plastic packages that we are talking about.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U95	Thank you for your question. During the debate on the draft amendment of the Packaging Act and the Packaging Excise Duty Act, at these three meetings, we did not address this issue. We followed the general logic that all the packages that are placed on the market need to be collected and done by type, based on the material most contained in the package. If packaging is recycled or at least recycled, the environmental impact can be tolerated. In the case of packaging, the important question is always its usefulness, the packaging is useful for something, it is not just used. Secondly, there is a significant impact on the environment. It is always possible to find some sort of compromise here. If the collection and recovery of packaging is well organised, the problems of this yellow plastic bag are not so bad either. But in the end, the whole purpose of this draft 561 is to ensure that organisations that are obliged and put together to collect packages deal with it more transparently so that the money that is collected from those who place packages on the market can be used as specifically as possible and assessed by the public. The law states that services are purchased through public procurement or as openly as possible, that profits cannot be taken out, that investments must be made in communication, education. The purpose of the draft law is to ensure that it is better than it is now and that there are more collection containers.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U96	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U97	Good manager! Good waitress! I read § 16 amended paragraph 3: 'Package undertaking which places on the market packaged goods with a weight of more than five tonnes per year and does not transfer the obligations referred to in subsection 1 of this section to the recycling organisation... ' I have two questions. How many accredited recycling organisations are there in Estonia at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U98	Thank you for your question. There are currently three of these recycling organisations, according to my knowledge. However, neither the law nor these conditions in any way restrict the entry of the fourth or fifth recycling organisation nor the subsequent market. This all depends on the amount of packaging, how many packages are placed on the market. In order for the number of packages to be placed on the market to be declared as honestly and accurately as possible, and to know, we are changing the procedure for determining the type of packaging, and this is now being done in law instead of the regulation of the Minister for the Environment. Therefore, it is better for the tax administration to control those who place packages on the market and to check that the data are really correct. At present, however, there are reasonable doubts in some places that not everything that has actually been placed on the market has been declared. Understandably, this change could lead to an increase in the number of packages placed on the market on paper, possibly an increase in excise duty receipts, so there should be more work that can also be done by new entrants.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U99	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U100	Thank you. Hence the second question. We know that when we discussed the same laws about a year ago, it was thought that agriculture would not be affected by these laws. Now we know that the silo vendors have to pick up their own plastic. Can they also pass on this obligation to an accredited recycling organisation? How and who will determine this price?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U101	Thank you for your question. The level and manner of collection depends largely on how much packaging is placed on the market. If the annual volume is more than 5,000 kilograms, or 5 tons, the collection must either be organised independently or transferred to the relevant organisation. As far as the cost is concerned, it can be said that if you take a bid from three organisations, the best price offered is what you have to pay.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U102	Good waitress, you'll see there's no more questions. Thank you! Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. We will begin the examination of the amendments to the draft 561. Nine amendments have been received. All amendments have been proposed by the lead committee, the Committee on the Environment. The first, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth amendments. Now, attention will come to the last, ninth amendment. We have examined the amendments. The position of the commission is that the second reading must be completed. The second reading is closed and the third item is also dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U103	Let's move on to item number four. The second reading of draft law 545 on the amendment of the Code of Civil Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws begins. I ask the Vice-Chairman of the Legal Affairs Committee Marko Pomerants of the Riigikogu to speak at the Chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U104	Good afternoon, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, In fact, there should be Andres Anvelt, who originally introduced the draft. But in some unexplained way, he's become the Minister of Justice in the meantime, and that's why this role has fallen to me. The Committee on Legal Affairs was able to discuss the amendment of the Code of Civil Procedure and the related matter at least three times. On one occasion, Anvelt was also personally at the heart of this debate on his questions, but on the 7th and 14th days of April, the new Commission had to review the draft. In particular, the Code of Civil Procedure did not raise many problems, as neither the political groups of the Riigikogu nor the members of the Riigikogu proposed amendments to this effect. However, in the meantime, the Supreme Court has done its job and therefore there is now a valid Supreme Court ruling from 10 December 2013. The Supreme Court declared the § 57 (1) and (15) of the Tax Act and Annex 1 to the Constitution incompatible with the Constitution, in so far as it provides for the obligation to pay the state fee in civil proceedings at a higher rate than when the application was submitted electronically via the website www.e-imik.ee. This decision of the Supreme Court created the need to amend the state fee law. The first amendment concerns § 2 of the draft law, which is § 57 of the State Fees Act, to which paragraph 151 is added, which looks like this: 'In the event of an appeal against the determination of the financial amount of the costs of the proceedings, the State fee shall be paid at EUR 50. ' The Commission was in full agreement here. We have also worked together here on the draft law on apartment ownership and housing associations and adopted it as a law. The main time for the entry into force of this Act is 1 January 2018. However, during the process of processing this large-scale draft, we also found ourselves in a situation where the wording of certain points of the draft could not quite be what it might have been, the wording was not unambiguous. Therefore, Amendment 3 proposes a new wording of § 51 (4) of the Apartment Ownership and Apartment Association Act: 'The Apartment Association shall submit the approved annual report to the Register of Apartment Associations within six months of the end of the financial year. Where the audit is compulsory, the report shall be submitted together with the report of the sworn auditor. ' It should now be clear when the report of the sworn auditor is needed: only if the audit is mandatory. The second part of this paragraph had been omitted during the procedure. Now it should be clear to everyone involved whether or not a sworn auditor's report is needed. Amendment 2 concerns the amendment of the Housing Property Act: the words'special property item' are replaced by'real property part'. The problem is that the term'special property item' does not yet exist in law, it will only come into play in 2018 when the Apartment Ownership and Housing Association Act enters into force. Therefore, the term "real part of the ownership of a dwelling' must be completed in the meantime. We also improved the provisions concerning the entry into force of the law. In the course of this procedure, however, we became quite passionate when it came to the revision of the Apartment Ownership and Housing Association Act and the attitude of the initiator's representative. We had very serious disputes over the use of legal terms. For example, the question was whether the management body of the building management company was who or what. The large professionals represented on the Commission did not agree on this issue. The changes made to the Apartment Ownership and Apartment Association Act during the translation of the language gave rise to other discussions. As the initiator's representative was in trouble before us with his explanations, the Commission decided that the Commission would not initiate these amendments. As I said, the Apartment Ownership and Housing Association Act will enter into force mainly on 1 January 2018. I recommend that the new temporary Minister of Justice, Anvelt, collect all the concerns related to this law and discuss them, do not have to rush them to the Riigikogu immediately. Yesterday, the new Minister Anvelt addressed the current chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Neeme Suur. In his opinion, the officials of the Riigikogu's Legal Affairs Committee have gone too far and are imposing their will on the members of the Riigikogu who work in the Legal Affairs Committee. I can assure you that the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee has thoughtful people who can handle their own thoughts. Young colleague Anvelt should also read the letters he signs, at least he should do so in the first month of his term of office. There is no further concern with this bill. I suggest you contribute to the completion of the second reading of this bill. As you have seen, the basic law itself did not require much change, the whole steam went to another place. We dealt with a sort of cluster bill. But whoever does, it happens. Mistakes are also a natural part of our lives. When they come forward, they need to be improved if there is a common understanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U105	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. I ask for your assistance in examining the amendments to draft 545. Four amendments have been received, all from the lead committee. The first, second, third and fourth amendments. We have examined the amendments. The position of the commission is that the second reading should be terminated. The second reading is closed and the fourth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U106	Let's go to agenda number five. The second reading of Bill 649 of the Public Information Act and the Electronic Communications Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws begins. It is a great honour to ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, member of the Economic Commission, Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U107	Mr. Ratas! Honourable Riigikogu! The draft law amending the Public Information Act, the Electronic Communications Act and the Emergency Act was initiated by the Government of the Republic. a on November 4. On 14 November, the Government of the Republic initiated a draft law amending the Law on Electronic Communications and the Law on State Fees. The first reading of both drafts took place in s. a January 22nd. No amendments were tabled by the deadline of 5 February. In the past, the Committee on Economic Affairs had decided in principle to merge these two drafts. The initiator also agreed to the merger of the preliminary claim. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the preparation of this draft second reading at its meeting on 15 April, which was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications Tõnu Nirk and Hindrek Allvee. The Commission decided to propose 13 amendments to the draft, 12 of which were submitted to the Committee on Economic Affairs by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The very first amendment was that these two drafts, similar in substance and at the same time in the procedure, should be merged into a draft law amending the Public Information Act and the Electronic Communications Act and in connection with the amendment of other laws. Such an oral name. The remaining 12 amendments are formal legal, related to the merger of two laws and legal changes due to the merger, such as the improvement of certain dates. There was no major political debate in the Commission; all decisions were taken in a consensual manner. The amendments are available to all of you; I am not going to read them one by one. Finally, I come to the Commission's decisions. Firstly, we decided to propose to the House that the draft be put on the agenda today, 23 April. Secondly, we decided to propose that the second reading be stopped. Thirdly, when the second reading is completed, we recommend sending the draft to the third reading by 7 May. All decisions, both on amendments and procedural decisions, were taken by consensus within the Commission. Finally, it was proposed that the draft be put to the final vote on 7 May. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U108	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. I thank the waitress! Is there a desire to negotiate? No, I don't. We will begin the examination of the amendments to draft 649. 13 amendments have been received, all from the lead committee. The first, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth, eleven, twelve and thirteen amendments. We have examined the amendments. The position of the commission is that the second reading should be terminated. The second reading is closed and the fifth item is also dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U109	Let's move on to item six. The second reading of the Act amending the VAT Act, which was not announced by the President of the Republic, begins. I ask Remo Holsmer, member of the Finance Committee, to speak at the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U110	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. The draft Act amending the VAT Act was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 25 September 2013. The first reading took place on 23 October of the same year, the second reading on 10 December, and the draft was adopted as a law on 11 December. On 18 December, the President of the Republic decided not to declare the Act amending the VAT Act and the Accounting Act. The decision of the President of the Republic was discussed by the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu at its two sittings: s. a on 13 and 14 January. At the last meeting, Ülle Madise, Legal Adviser to the President of the Republic, gave an overview of the motives of the President of the Republic in the absence of the Act. Following discussions, the Committee on Monetary Affairs decided to support the failure to adopt the law unchanged. On 16 January 2014, the Riigikogu decided not to adopt the law unchanged. The Committee on Finance considered that both the draft and the explanatory memorandum needed to be completed in order to remedy the shortcomings identified by the President. In the Commission's view, it would be most appropriate for a new explanatory memorandum to be drawn up by the initiator of the draft. In order to develop the explanatory memorandum, working groups were set up at the Ministry of Finance to further describe the effects of the new regulation, the administrative burden involved, the security of data handling and the proportionality of the proposed restrictions, and to analyse the compliance of the regulation with European Union law. The Committee on Monetary Affairs acknowledged that, in the event of a re-examination of the law, it is necessary to provide unambiguously for the liberal professions and to provide for implementing provisions allowing for a smoother transition to the new regulation. In the light of the above decisions, a debate was held in. a at the meetings of the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 11 and 17 February, together with the representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Tax and Customs Board, the amendments to the draft and the explanatory memorandum, as well as the proposals submitted by the interest groups. The draft prepared at the Ministry of Finance and the explanatory memorandum, as amended, were submitted to the stakeholders for an opinion. The table of comments and proposals is attached to the explanatory memorandum to the draft amendment to the VAT Act specified and supplemented by the Ministry of Finance and can be found on the website of the Riigikogu. It contains proposals and opinions on the draft by the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Law Enforcement and Bankruptcy Administrators Koja, the Chamber of Notaries, the Estonian Bar Association, the Estonian Traders' Association and other organisations. In addition to the above, a referral was made to the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which considers that it is for small businesses to benefit from the draft, as fair competition will be improved. The author of this address is Ivar Liivamägi. The following is an overview of the amendments and the debate that took place in the Commission. If the Riigikogu does not re-accept the law that was sent back unchanged, it will be dealt with in general terms, starting with the submission of amendments. If the Riigikogu decides to amend the law, it should be taken into account that the purpose of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act is primarily that the amendment of the law is limited to the correction of the shortcomings to which the President drew attention. It should be pointed out that the members of the Riigikogu, the committees and the political groups did not propose any amendments to the draft. I would remind you that the President pointed out that the Riigikogu, entrepreneurs and the public should be given a detailed analysis when discussing the draft, on the basis of which it could be argued that there are no other less favourable options than the proposed regulation to reduce the VAT hole at least to the same extent. The president also proposed that the regulation relating to the liberal professions be clarified. He also proposed a review of the period during which large retail businesses, for example, can adapt their customer bases and accounting software to possible changes. His last proposal was to clarify the compatibility of the proposed regulation with the EU VAT Directive. A very thorough analysis of the need for regulation is provided in the explanatory memorandum prepared by the Ministry of Finance, which has been available to everyone on the Riigikogu website since 6 March. Its explanations convinced the Committee on Monetary Affairs once again of the need for regulation and that there are currently no less burdensome alternatives to achieve the same objective. In other words, this is not a disproportionate restriction on the freedom to conduct a business. More specifically, however, the changes that have been made to the draft under discussion as a result of the President's decision and the discussions of the committee relating to them. By liberal professions, we mean lawyers, notaries, bankruptcy practitioners, bailiffs. For reasons of legal clarity, the new paragraph of Section 27 of the VAT Act is supplemented, according to which the annex to the VAT return does not reflect the details of invoices issued and sent for transactions and operations which are covered by the obligation of professional or professional secrecy under the Act. In addition to the service provider, the recipient of the service is not obliged to record the details of those invoices in the annex to the VAT return. For example, since access to a lawyer is confidential, receiving an invoice from a lawyer does not need to be included in the VAT return supplement. However, if it is easier for a taxable person to record the details of the invoice received for a service on the VAT return, he may do so because he himself has no obligation to keep a secret. I am now talking about implementing provisions and the entry into force of the law. The draft takes into account the proposal by the Traders' Association to grant the tax authorities the right to apply the temporary derogations described in Amendment 3. The application may be submitted by a person who needs additional time to carry out IT development work. In some cases it may take up to a year to carry out major work. Therefore, in those cases, the right not to submit a declaration shall be granted until 20 June 2015. This transitional period can be used by a person when he or she submits an application to the tax authority at least two months before the law as a whole enters into force. This is necessary for the tax authority to be able to analyse the application for the transitional period and to make the decision on it known to the person. Applications can be submitted from s. a from 1 July to 31 August. As a result of the proposal by the retailers, Amendment 4 gives the right until 20 January 2016 to submit the invoice data aggregated in the annex to the VAT return. This will give companies additional time to make more complex developments, if necessary, in order to provide billing information on a transaction-to-transaction basis. This is due to the fact that one of the trading partners has a large number of invoices and, consequently, the volume of data to be provided is very large. When data are presented by transaction partners, this must be indicated in the annex to the VAT return. On the basis of this notation, the Estonian Tax and Customs Board can process data and combine the two systems. In the proposals on possible deadlines for the entry into force of the renegotiated law, the Committee on Monetary Affairs expressed its support for the entry into force of the law. a on 1 November 2015 and a provision allowing for a derogation on 1 July 2015. The Director-General of the Tax Board confirmed that the Tax and Customs Board is prepared to implement the new system as of 1 November 2014. For most taxable persons, the administrative burden involved is minimal. Those whose administrative burden increases for objective reasons will be granted a transitional period. They will have the possibility, if necessary, to make IT changes in essence one year after the publication of the Act and, if necessary and if they so wish, to submit invoices in summary form until 2016. When it comes to aggregation, it has to be said that IT developments are more expensive and complex. To the Estonian Tax and Customs Board, aggregation still means that individuals must be contacted by individual checks, because it is not clear what the invoice is, and these calls in turn increase the administrative burden on businesses. To sum up, the draft provides for a transitional period and each undertaking can decide whether or not to submit invoices in aggregate at that time. I am also talking about compliance with European Union law, to which the President of the Republic referred. The Finance Committee asked the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu whether the law was compatible with European Union law. The compatibility of the proposed amendment to the Accounting Act with Article 226 of the VAT Directive, which provides for an exhaustive list of the information to be invoiced, was identified as problematic. At the time of the re-negotiation, the section on the amendment of the Accounting Act, which provided for the amendment of the requirements of the Accounting Act on the original document, is deleted from the Act. If this amendment is taken into account, the title of the draft, i.e. the Accounting Act, will also change and its amendment will no longer be included in it. The procedural decisions and proposals of the lead committee are as follows: We decided to submit the draft to second reading by 23 April 2014 with a proposal to conclude the second reading. When the second reading is concluded today, the Commission's proposal to put the draft to a final vote is on 7 May. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U111	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions. Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U112	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! You, as a Commission waitress, are, in my view, the spokesperson for the parliamentary will of this bill. In recent days, there has been quite a scandal in the press about the fact that the tax administration has already begun to invest in the technical implementation of this law on its computer network. The opponents say they have no right to do so because the law has not yet been passed. Does the Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Riigikogu have a position on how it can be that there is no law yet, but we are already spending as planned, confident that the law will be passed? That's my question. I'm pretty upset about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U113	Thank you. Don't be too upset. We also addressed this issue yesterday when the Committee on Monetary Affairs visited the Tax and Customs Board. The Tax and Customs Board has a framework agreement with the IT developer for four years, worth a total of EUR million. Logic is that if any IT development needs to be carried out, it is quickly possible to obtain this service from one partner. This EUR 1 million was the subject of a public tender years ago. So everything has been very correct. As regards the Annex to the Declaration, work has been carried out for EUR 60000 on the technical specification for the transition to the new system. No further development has been carried out. A total of EUR 400000 has been estimated at the current estimate. But everything fits well within the framework of the law, and the people of Riisalu don't have to worry too much.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U114	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U115	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I didn't quite understand the answer. In the case of EUR 60000, have these works been taken into account which would require the adoption of this draft as a law? If that is the case, then this is an extremely uncomfortable topic to be addressed here at the Riigikogu's birthday. This is not compatible with parliamentary democracy. There's a contradiction here. The Minister of Finance, just as he pointed to EUR 400000, but today's article in the Estonian daily newspaper refers to the spent EUR 60000.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U116	These EUR 60000 are part of the 400000, as I answered the previous question. In order to develop technical specifications, the Tax Administration has commissioned work from its IT partner, with whom a four-year framework contract had already been concluded. All these works shall be carried out in the framework of this contract.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U117	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U118	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague! I understand that this bill is not comfortable to deal with. Although the idea of improving the tax environment and creating a fair competitive environment for businesses is correct in itself, I think the whole procedure of this draft has been like a bad dream. I would remind you that this bill came here with a 1.5-page explanatory memorandum, which has now become 12 pages long. The President clearly stated the reasons why he rejected this law. Looking at these arguments and recalling the discussion that has taken place in society, it has to be said that this issue has been topical. The Riigikogu also thought that we should continue to deal with this. That's where my question comes from. Companies complain that they have not been taken into account, have not been met and their views have not been taken into account. Maybe you can tell me if that's the wrong thing to say. How many meetings have been held, what meetings have taken place, etc.?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U119	The birth story of this draft dates back to September 2013, when the Commission on the Prevention of Tax Fraud met. It is the head of the Minister of Finance and is attended by representatives of state institutions, as well as representatives of several business organisations, such as the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Estonian Employers' Confederation. This was the subject of a meeting of the Commission by a representative of the Tax and Customs Board. I can refer to the minutes of the Commission meeting, which states that the electronic annex to the VAT return needs to be dealt with as a matter of urgency. This should also be well known by the Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, who took part in all the discussions that followed these proposals. Yes, the Members of Parliament did not take part in the government's discussions, but since October or November last year, business organisations have been discussing this subject on a 24-hour basis in the Commission, and I appreciate that. Surely this bill cannot come as a surprise to anyone or act as a rush. This idea, once again, came from the Committee on the Prevention of Tax Fraud in September. I'm sure we're gonna have to shake the shit out of ourselves because the president sent that law back to us. There have now been changes which I have described and which relate to the possible contradiction between the Accounting Act and the VAT Directive. Businesses have also been given time to change their IT systems. All amendments have improved this bill, not to mention the explanatory memorandum. I think the good questioner mentioned 12 pages. I don't know if you've got that new explanatory note in front of you, but it's an inch thick. Quantity does not necessarily mean quality. But I dare say that the explanatory memorandum analyses quite thoroughly the experiences of other countries on how tax fraud is combated there. Similarly, there is a specific proposal for an electronic annex to the VAT return, which can minimise the number of VAT fraud.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U120	Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U121	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I come back to the subject of public procurement. If I get this right, there's been a four-year call to get something that doesn't exist yet. Doesn't that seem a little weird? Small businesses will not be able to bid for such purchases at all. But the question is, if this law is not passed today, who will finally pay the sum of EUR 6 000.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U122	Thank you. Once again, I would like to explain that the Tax and Customs Board has concluded a framework agreement and that it has been awarded a public contract. The Framework Agreement covers all IT work required by the Tax and Customs Board. This does not only concern the annex to the VAT return. I hope that it is clear that a framework agreement has been signed and a procurement has been made for EUR 1 million. Under this agreement, the costs which the head of the tax administration considers necessary are incurred. There shouldn't be any ambiguities here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U123	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U124	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! That's a terrible bill, isn't it? I do not know exactly whether your groupmate, Aivar Sõerd, has changed her mind and is now going to vote differently than in December, but I have not changed my mind. I am probably against the draft this time instead of not voting, because I do not think we have any substantive answers to the letter sent by the President. As you said, the Ministry of Finance has made the explanatory statement even longer, but basically the questions remain unanswered. There are very many issues, the Ministry of Finance and businesses do not have a common understanding. How much does a bill like this cost society, which we should start approving?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U125	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! None of the framework contracts for public procurement can carry out arbitrary works. If a procurement is made for the construction of a single house, two houses cannot be created as a result. A framework contract would not be in conformity with the law on public procurement, and such a contract would remove the meaning of public procurement. Do you agree that the content of this framework agreement should be checked by law enforcement authorities in the interests of clarity?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U126	Thank you. I would like to remind you, good questioner, that we are now discussing the amendment of the VAT law. You have asked about the framework agreement at the last three meetings of the Committee on Monetary Affairs from both the Ministry of Finance and the head and representatives of the tax administration. If you have any doubts that there have been any violations, I suggest you contact the law enforcement authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U127	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U128	Thank you. Honourable waitress! According to the law, an undertaking has the right to request from the tax authorities, in essence, a deferral of the entry into force of the Act until 20 June 2015. This puts entrepreneurs in a different situation: for someone the law will apply immediately from 1 November and for someone a little later. Why are we treating businesses unequally? Why can't we apply the law in such a way that it applies to everyone at the same time and in a uniform way, for example, from 1 July 2015? Then this problem would have been solved.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U129	Thank you! Businesses themselves are also divided. Some say that they will be ready for their development even after two months after the IT development of the tax administration is completed, and some say that they need extra time. In my opinion, it makes perfect sense for the legislator to provide for this extension. On the other hand, when businesses say that they are ready to provide data in a new form, there is no reason to limit it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U130	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U131	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I, too, have heard many operators say that this measure is disproportionate. If 50% of entrepreneurs were frauds, then this measure maybe, yes, would be fine, but certainly there are only 1%, 2% or 3% of frauds, and we put an excessive burden on the remaining 97%. Even through the press, I have heard entrepreneurs say that there will soon be no point in doing business in Estonia; in Estonia, 'entrepreneur' is already like a word of incrimination. All the laws adopted last time want to make the life of an entrepreneur as difficult as possible, it would be better if he left Estonia at all. However, are there no other means? Do you not think that this measure is too disproportionate in comparison to the revenue expected from it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U132	Thank you. In recent years, the country has made a number of changes to curb tax fraud. Tax changes are being made in the forestry and fuel sectors. We are still in the process of a draft act on reverse charge, which deals with precious metals. Since the end of last year, the Tax Administration has taken very strong steps to curb those entrepreneurs who are involved in tax fraud, in cooperation with the Association of Companies bringing cars to Estonia. These activities have been carried out on a sector-by-sector basis and there will be more. We'll take the employee register, which will be operational in the middle of this year. There are many measures with which the state is trying to control tax fraudsters. However, the draft under discussion means a significant paradigm shift. As I have already answered one question here, the proposal for an electronic annex to the declaration found support in principle in the Committee on the Prevention of Tax Fraud, where all the same parties are represented, so-called market participants. There was certainly no opposition as you described it. I, too, can give examples of what entrepreneurs are saying to each other, but there is still a difference between what is said through Postimees and what is spoken to each other. Do not paint as black a picture of Estonia as it would not be possible to do business here. Yes, it is. I believe it is in the interests of these same entrepreneurs that there is an honest tax environment in Estonia. This bill has been made for this purpose.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U133	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U134	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague! Listening to the answers, it's like you're the great soldiers who set up the obstacles first and then they're gonna disprove them. You said with great pride that the differences between the draft and the VAT directive have disappeared and that a transitional period has been foreseen. In fact, these differences arose with the same draft and the transitional period would not need to be granted if the proposal by Mr Seeder were to enter into force at the same time from 1 July. My main question, however, is what I talked about before. The draft has been dealt with in three stages: when it came to the Riigikogu, when it was the first time in the proceedings, and now, this year, it is the second time in the proceedings. The problem for entrepreneurs is that they have not been met or talked about, they have not been heard. You say it's been done. I have a request for you. Why don't you give me an overview of this year? How many times have businesses been brought together since the President sent that law back? Do you have that information? Would you be so kind!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U135	Thank you! I have some pretty detailed information about how much the IRS has met with a number of organisations and business associations. This list starts with meetings held in October 2013 and ends with meetings held in January 2014. I don't read them all to save time. However, I will mention the companies and institutions that have been met and discussed: Tallinna Kaubamaja, the Chamber of Service Management, the Estonian Merchants Association, the Association of Estonian Hotels and Restaurants, the Board of Auditors, the Association of Estonian Tourists and the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. I refer to meetings that have taken place at a practical level between the tax administration and businesses. I do not mean the meetings held by the Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Riigikogu or other political groups, because I do not know who, for example, the IRL Group meets every week. However, on behalf of the Reform Party Group, I can confirm that we have had several meetings with the Chamber of Commerce, employers and also the Chamber of the Service Economy on this issue. I dare say that the argument that businesses have not been spoken about this issue or that there has been little talk about it is not true. My position is also supported by correspondence and by the opinions submitted by economic operators on the draft. You can see them in the explanatory notes. It also shows the points taken into account in the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U136	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U137	Thank you. It is not possible for any person to access these data. It is not the case that the tax inspector comes to work and enters into the database the name of a company whose invoices he wishes to see. It's out of the question, the system doesn't allow it. Software development is such that by default the system cannot be accessed at all. If the risk analysis shows any inconsistencies, if the purchase and sales invoices do not match, then the computer program will provide the tax authorities with these data. There will then be more concrete communication between the tax administration and the company. As far as the granting of guarantees is concerned, I believe that it is like the dembling of the tax administration: it must be so bulletproof that it does not leak to any third party from the tax administration. It's a matter of the credibility of the IRS Director-General. I dare say he's doing everything he can, including in the internal control of the IRS, so that no bits leave the IRS for malicious purposes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U138	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U139	Thank you. Dear waitress, How much did you count on this draft in the state budget this year before the law was passed? Here's the wisdom for the future: You don't want to plan any sums until the bill becomes a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U140	The budget impact of this draft is expected to be at least EUR 30 million per year. It's a minimal effect. The extent to which the implementation of the electronic annex to the VAT return increases the revenue of the budget, let us be honest, we will not be able to know with precision. As I described earlier, it has a preventive effect because entrepreneurs know that they can stay in the radar. It will certainly also have a real impact if invoices are compared and tax fraud is detected. Whether it has an impact of EUR 35 or EUR 40 million, we will not be able to know for a cent. But given the VAT receipts and the VAT hole, analysts from the Tax and Customs Board and the Ministry of Finance have offered that the state budget could receive an additional EUR 30 million per year.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U141	Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U142	Good chairman of the sitting! Good waitress! My question of compliance with the Public Procurement Act is, in my opinion, very important in the process of dealing with this draft. If a large amount of money has been spent prior to the adoption of the law permitting it, there may be a situation where the adoption of the law takes place in'mandatory' cases, because the costs already incurred can be justified by this law. As a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, do you agree with my reasoning? Do you think in the same way that it would be good if we could quickly find out the reasons behind the spending of this money?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U143	Thank you. Unlike you, good questioner, I trust the IRS and its CEO. Once again, if you have any doubts that any treaty has been violated, then, for God's sake, you have the right to address the relevant bodies.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U144	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U145	Thank you. To be honest, I did not get an answer to my first question, but I hope that the second question will do better. I believe that the tax authority is not competent to assess the volume of companies' IT developments or the financial opportunities of companies, the exact time when these IT developments should be carried out and contracts concluded with software developers. The tax authority cannot give an objective assessment of when this law should be enforced for anyone. Why all this transition and the possibility of subjective assessment by the tax authorities? Why give this authority to the tax authorities if we can solve this problem so that we can enforce the entire law as a whole from 1 July 2015?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U146	Thank you. It seems to me that I am a little out of the Commission's role as co-rapporteur. In answering your question, I say that both the enforcement of the draft and the granting of this transitional period were on the table in the Commission as amendments. I can describe the results of the vote on the basis of which the Commission decided that the draft could enter into force on 1 November and that an additional transitional deadline could be in mid-2015.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U147	Thomas Tõniste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U148	Thank you. I have also tried to take a positive view of this bill. I have done this precisely because it may help honest entrepreneurs to get rid of some dishonest entrepreneurs. But from the beginning, I've had a question I still haven't had an answer to. How much does it cost entrepreneurs? The sums presented to us by the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration do not seem to me to be subject to any criticism; they are completely underestimated. The companies themselves have assessed this cost well. It has now been cut several times, and the likely amount could be between 30 million and 40 million. That's the preliminary assessment we've been given. That is why I wonder why the Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs makes such big eyes. Have you made it clear to yourself how much this is actually going to cost?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U149	Thank you. I am not the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs is that way. But as far as the cost is concerned, as I said in a previous response, the costs are very different. There are accounting software developers who say this update is included in the price of the license. However, there are also accounting software developers who will definitely bill entrepreneurs. The $30 million or $40 million you're juggling is definitely overrated. I dare say that. The Chamber of Commerce carried out a round of visits among its members, I think it was at the end of last year, and asked for an estimate of possible costs. The exact amount did not come from it, as these costs vary so much between companies.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U150	Thank you. Please, Siim Kisler, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U151	Thank you. Good colleague! I see that at the end of the year you supported this bill in the form it was then. I believe you have not changed your decision, given how much the draft and the explanatory memorandum have been completed. As regards the amendments, first of all I would like to mention the proposal by the retailers to allow for the totality of invoices. There is now a transitional period for this. Secondly, at the justified request of the economic operator, a transitional period is granted to complete the annex to the declaration, which can be postponed until the middle of the following year. I admit that the contradiction with the VAT Directive is rather a legal and technical issue; it does not specifically concern businesses. But these are two important changes. Once you have supported this bill, I believe that if this bill comes to the third reading on 7 May, you will be able to do so with a calmer heart.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U152	Thank you. Please, Urmas Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U153	Thank you. Honourable waitress! My question is about dialogue with business organisations. There was one more turn this morning. The debate organised by the IRL on Monday also showed that business organisations believe that the central problem is precisely that there has been no real dialogue. Does it make sense to adopt this bill as a law as a matter of urgency without, in essence, starting a dialogue with business organisations and trying to shut down tax holes together with businesses? A positive example is the employee register, which has unambiguous support from larger business organisations. This case was dealt with without delay. As far as IRL's position is concerned, the IRL also supported that the draft should be amended, as stated in the President's decision. You, too, Remo, voted for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U154	Thank you. Good questioner! You weren't in the hall when I told you where this bill started. The Minister of Finance is headed by the Tax Fraud Prevention Commission, whose members are larger business organisations and which discussed this idea, i.e. the electronic annex to the VAT return, last September. This was an explanation of the beginning of the dialogue. A summary of this committee says that the draft should move forward as quickly as possible. Almost eight months have passed since September of last year, and dialogue in various forms of intensity has taken place for more than six months. I cannot agree with your criticism in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U155	Thank you. Please, Liisa-Ly Pakosta, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U156	Thank you! Now I can also specify the colors. In 2011, the Green Paper on the future of VAT was published in the European Union. Towards a simpler, more secure and more efficient VAT system'. There Estonia supported simplifying VAT systems and reducing the burden on businesses. Can you find any links as to why the Committee on Monetary Affairs did not table these Estonian proposals already made in 2011 during further VAT discussions?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U157	Thank you. There are several VAT exemptions left. You can dismantle the state budget where they are described. If you are asking about the current draft procedure, the problems or proposals you have referred to have not been discussed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U158	Thank you. Please, Marko Pomerants, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U159	Thank you. Good waitress! I just want to ask you this. Did you notice that when I asked my previous question about three further positive changes, I did not make any assessment of this draft which is currently pending?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U160	Thank you. Then I will not make any assessment of your question either.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U161	Please, Annely Akkermann!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U162	Thank you, President-in-Office. Mr President, thank you very much. Most of the invoices that companies issue to each other during the year (I think the amount of these bills is millions if not tens of millions of euros) are presented in the most honest and honest way. I think that perhaps 1%, 2% or 5% of these invoices are linked to VAT fraud. If this bill enters into force as a law, we will oblige honest entrepreneurs to provide information on honest invoices. However, they account for over 90% of all invoices. If this is not a disproportionate measure, what do you think is disproportionate bureaucracy at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U163	Thank you for your question. I would like to remind you once again that this draft does not want to say that Estonian entrepreneurs are tax fraudsters. Absolutely not. Please do not put these words in my mouth or in the mouth of the initiator of the bill. Secondly, the tax office is currently able to review 3% of VAT returns by manual checks. You were talking about 5% or 10% of the bad guys or fraudsters. Hopefully there'll be fewer, not so many. But this draft will help to ensure that this small number of entrepreneurs who try to deceive the country in one way or another can no longer do so easily.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U164	Thank you. Please, Aivar Riisalu, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U165	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! I'm going to ask you a more general question. For seven years, I've been sitting in the opposition watching the game of the government's various formations assuring, shaping the environment and making 180-degree turns in their brains and wherever. But please make an assessment! How do you feel about our assailing and this bill actually affect the business environment in Estonia? Does this environment get better or worse? The reason I'm asking this is because I haven't heard anyone on that side of those limestone walls very much praise this bill. That's why I'm asking if we really have the moral right to do what we do. Maybe it would really be a good time to take off? We have one Estonia, the other one has not been given to us.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U166	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U167	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Our group has met most of the corporate umbrella organisations last year and this year. The last meeting took place on Monday. Today, eight companies and organisations signed the postbox of all members of the Riigikogu. As far as I am concerned, no corporate umbrella organisation has supported this draft. Can you tell if there is an organization that supports the adoption of such a law?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U168	Thank you. The draft contains a coordination table setting out the proposals made by the organisations, as well as the reasons why the proposal was or was not supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U169	Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U170	Thank you. Both in the preliminary process of this draft and now, in the process of re-examination, we have indeed met many business organisations. One important question that has always been asked is how much it costs businesses. It seems rather that the more discussed on this subject, the more questions will arise. It can be seen that the estimates of the costs incurred by operators differ radically, depending on whether the calculations are made by traders or by the Tax and Customs Board together with the Ministry. Can you explain why these estimates are so different?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U171	Thank you. These estimates are different, there is no one answer. The costs of those who currently do not use any economic software or accounting software are determined by whether or not they are transferred to this software. For those who already use this software, some software developers have promised that innovation is included in the price, while others have said that it will have to be paid for in addition. As a result, it is not possible to state clearly how much the transition costs of all Estonian companies are. We can only hope that companies will realise that in the end it is in their own interests and in the interests of Estonia's fair tax environment. This draft has been made to ensure that the VAT hole and the tax hole as a whole are reduced in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U172	Andrus Island, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U173	Thank you, manager. Honourable waitress! I hear that the European Commission has decided to simplify the VAT Directive as the most burdensome document, or to move in the opposite direction to what we are discussing in this Chamber today. Perhaps all these investments and plans, and what the state is doing and what businesses are doing, will remain temporary at all. Has this been discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U174	Thank you for your question. I do not recall that this week, the discussions in the Committee on Monetary Affairs have dealt with this issue. If the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the vice-chairman or any other member of the committee remembers this, I will certainly specify it afterwards, but I am now saying that this has not been the subject of a separate debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U175	Thank you. Andrus Ansip.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U176	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Honest entrepreneurs are all interested in making tax evasion impossible. As a result, a large number of companies are supporting this draft into a law. However, it is also understandable that very many businesses are concerned about the additional administrative burden that arises. Several organisations have wished to raise this financial threshold, which leads to an obligation to submit an annex to the VAT return. However, I have also been approached by entrepreneurs who, on the contrary, have wanted to remove this financial limit at all, because it will be easier for them to deal with when they submit all their turnover in one VAT return and do not have to acquire any additional software programme. Have such proposals been sent to the Committee on Monetary Affairs? Has the Committee on Monetary Affairs discussed at all the possibility of abolishing this monetary limit?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U177	Thank you. Yes, such suggestions have been made. This has been clearly stated by Viljar Arakas of the House of Service Economy, who has said that they intend to issue all the invoices. Crossing the border to either EUR 1000, EUR 10000 or EUR 50000 creates a separate cost and some operators see no point in this. They have clearly stated that they are submitting all purchase and sales invoices to the IRS. The same thing is summation. Enabling aggregation, which the large retailers have asked for (and they have also received in the draft), actually means additional expenditure on IT developments. But since it was the wish of the retailers, the Committee on Monetary Affairs found it reasonable to accept it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U178	Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U179	Thank you. Good waitress! You pointed out in your report that one of the important reasons why the President decided not to declare the law was a contradiction with the principle of proportionality, as stated in § 11 of the Constitution. There are very serious arguments in this President's decision. For example, one short quote: 'If only "risk" companies are actually controlled, it is not justified to impose an additional resource-intensive burden on the rest of the companies. Maintaining data collection and data mainly for risk analysis is, in my opinion, not a sufficient reason to justify an intensive restriction on the fundamental right. " In fact, the changes that have now been made do not solve this problem. Perhaps in some respects they give certain operators a slightly longer transitional period, but there is no answer to this question. Should we not resolve this problem first?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U180	Thank you. The way you vote, of course, I cannot say. All I can do is convince you to support this bill. By making your decision, of course, you're all free. You made criticism that the bill has not changed. Yes, it is. One thing is the explanatory statement, but there are improvements to the bill itself. I'll list them again. The contradiction with the VAT Directive has been eliminated. Businesses have been granted a half-year transitional period so that, by submitting an application to the tax administration, IT systems can be brought into line with the new requirements. Businesses will also be allowed to submit invoices in aggregated form until 2016. These are the changes that have been made in the current procedure compared to the draft that we dealt with at the end of last year. So there's definitely been a change. See this side, too. You only want to see the negative, but I dare say the bill has gotten much better. I encourage you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U181	Thank you. Please, Liisa-Ly Pakosta!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U182	Thank you. Good waitress! It was only a few years ago that Estonia, in discussions on VAT in the European Union, expressed the view that VAT accounting and cross-border settlements, as well as national possibilities for organising VAT issues, could be simpler and broader. Were these views now on the table, in 2014, in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, for once?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U183	Excuse me, what were you referring to in the beginning? What paper or document?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U184	In 2011, I think the EU White Paper on VAT was published. I'm not sure about the color of the book right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U185	Thank you. Neither the white, blue or green paper was discussed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs in the context of this draft, but we are prepared to do so at any moment. We are also prepared to engage in dialogue with companies and to find solutions so that the transition to the new system is as convenient and smooth as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U186	Please, Marko Pomerance!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U187	President-in-Office of the Council. Good speaker! I've had to deal with a lot of different problems in the meantime. I want a simple explanation from you. What are the three main things that have changed since today, when we are here again and we are discussing this subject, compared to December 2013, when one phase ended? What have these three important positive changes been?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U188	Thank you. I read out of that statement the question that maybe I should take some time off. The Committee on Monetary Affairs has proposed that you, the House, conclude today this draft, which is now in its amended form, the second reading, to make the third reading on 7 May and to put this law into effect on 1 November. You, Mr Riisalu, who have been in opposition for seven years, as you yourself said, and have done a very grateful job in improving the Estonian business environment, can decide whether or not to support this bill, both today and on 7 May.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U189	Thank you. Please, Annely Akkermann, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U190	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good speaker! Of course, I did not receive an answer to the question of proportionality. I am saying that over 90% of all accounts, which are tens of millions, are far over 90% honest. Why should honest entrepreneurs declare honest bills so that they can sift out a few dishonest ones? But here's the question. I will read this fine book sent to us by the Ministry of Finance from a study prepared for the European Commission at PricewaterhouseCoopers on page 29: 'One of the most important messages of the study is that it must be set for everyone and in a uniform manner when choosing any alternative. [---] Another important point is that there is no uniform standard method to solve all problems. ' These sentences were submitted by PricewaterhouseCoopers to the European Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U191	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U192	Why were other options not taken into account before this mass change took place?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U193	Thank you. The possibilities of fighting any form of tax fraud I have referred to, I think, three or four times in my answers. What has the country done, and what is the country planning to do this year? We are talking about the reverse charge of precious metals, the creation of a register of employees, and now the implementation of the annex to the VAT return. If you ask for an alternative, I suggest you think about it or ask your group about it. All political groups of the Riigikogu, as well as members of the Riigikogu, have the right to offer an alternative. For some reason, I do not hear this today, for some reason no member of the Riigikogu or political group has offered an alternative to the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which the IRL Group has asked about several times today. Once again, we have taken a number of measures to combat tax fraud. This bill is part of them. If there's any better alternative, good friends, don't be shy and come out with it! I believe that the Committee on Monetary Affairs will be happy to take it to urgent proceedings. I can say that if there is a very good idea, there is no blind opposition to it in the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U194	Thank you. Please, Andrus Ansip, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U195	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I know that as early as 1992, automated control methods were applied in Canada when individuals applied for back either goods and services tax on goods or provincial sales tax on goods. Should we continue to check information manually in Estonia now, or would it also be time for us to switch to automated checking of information from trading partners? This question, of course, is not so much addressed to you, but to more of the pessimist questioners in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U196	The answer is yes. I think we should go over it. When it comes to the next steps in declaring taxes, I say first of all that we, as individuals, know very well how the e-Tax Board works. When it comes to the declaration of business taxes, it can be said that Portugal, for example, has gone completely to the electronic VAT declaration, everything is happening online. I believe that this is the direction in which the declaration of taxes is moving and Estonia will reach it in three or five years' time, but if this bill comes true, then perhaps more quickly. I share the view of the good questioner that Estonia should definitely switch to this system, which is also proposed by the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U197	Thank you. Please, Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U198	Thank you. I am also a little surprised that so many of the questions that have already been actually mentioned are being repeated today, despite the fact that the draft has become much more precise and concrete in many aspects which previously raised questions. Besides, I remember that the majority in the IRL Group supported the earlier version of the draft. Can we consider this draft as an intermediate step or a test in order to reach, at some point, pre-filled declarations of VAT declaration, just as we have had pre-filled individual income tax returns for ten years now?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U199	Thank you. I would point out that at the end of the year, of the 22 members of the IRL Group, 17 supported the draft at the time. Secondly, I think that today's step can be taken as a step-by-step. I support your proposal for a trend.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U200	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Remo Holsmer! I'm opening negotiations. Please, Sven Sester! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U201	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will start where the last questioner ended, namely I am talking about votes and behavioural models. Seriously, this bill was supported in December. Moreover, in January, after the President had sent this law back to us, the entire Riigikogu, including ladies and gentlemen of the Reform Party, found that this law must be amended. If we had not taken such a decision, we should have sent this law back to the President in exactly the same form. Perhaps the entire Riigikogu found that, having passed this law, we had not reached the level that would have given the President the basis to declare this law. The question now is whether the changes we have made in the text are those that give us the assurance and the right to say that the law is at this level so that we can go out with it today in the finish. There is a tax hole in Estonia and its abolition must be dealt with; there is no question here. The IRL has already taken this view in the past and believes that reducing the tax gap and creating an honest tax environment is one and a clear priority, and this must be set as a goal. There's no two ways of understanding here. The best example of this activity is the draft on the registration of employees, where not only the political groups of the Riigikogu, but also business organisations, agreed. Everyone, including businesses, considered that the first registration of an employee would help create a fair competitive environment. At the same time, this 1000 euro law was born in an incomprehensible way, to say the least. As I said before when I asked the question, I am saying now that it is like a bad dream that has actually been going on all this time. At one point, there was the hope that we had been able to make this law acceptable to all parties, including economic operators, and also to the President, who had to declare it. Unfortunately, we were wrong, I have to admit. Let's see what we've talked about today. We will divide this draft into stages and talk about the final stage (from January this year to today), that is, the new situation that arose after the President did not declare the law. Let's be honest, involvement was actually nonexistent at the time. Why do I think that? I can only base myself on the information that has been shared by business organizations in recent weeks, last month and quarter. I quote Mait Palts, Director General of the Chamber of Commerce: 'In my ten-year practice, I do not remember any such drafts that would have such a broad impact and caused opposition from the whole target group. I do not know of any organisation representing entrepreneurs who would say that this draft is good and justified. " This is the real situation. President Kersti Kracht, the Estonian Association of Small and Medium Enterprises, says that VAT problems are being approached at all from the wrong end, by imposing unreasonable burdens on all entrepreneurs at the same time, rather than targeting the problem sectors first and foremost. He also said that the opportunities that several other countries have made good use of were jealously missed. I'm quoting yesterday's business paper. Silva Tomingas, Chairman of the Management Board of Tea Kirjastus, says: "Until it is known how much the application of the law costs different types of companies, the law is certainly not ripe. There is no point in spending taxpayers' money on sending the draft to third reading. It has to be called back and played through all the models. Don't shoot off your hip! 'When asked what inclusion means, they believe that it is essentially a one or two-hour meeting, which states that businesses have different concepts than the State. That's all about inclusion. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to hold consultations. The possible contradiction with the Constitution is a separate issue. The president has brought it out, and it should be fixed. If the VAT hole is currently EUR 200.250 million, the total tax hole is considerably higher, then the bill is expected to generate 30 million, or 10.15%. At the same time, additional burdens will be imposed on all operators. That, too, is the question of whether we should act on a segment or sector basis, whether we should act where there are risks, or whether we should extend this change to everyone. We should be discussing this, but such a debate has not yet taken place with those affected by this change, i.e. with economic operators. I'd like to talk to you guys about rushing. That's two aspects. First of all, what has happened in this Chamber of the Riigikogu in dealing with the bill and, secondly, what is happening in the implementation of the same bill as the law. The procedure has been such that there is a second reading today since the creation of the new coalition, but the Committee on Monetary Affairs has already voted that the third reading will take place on 7 May. I proposed to take time off, listen to the talks and debates here at second reading, and then come back to this issue in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. No, the pace is that, in any case, it is urgent to take this issue off the agenda. Now I am talking about rushing into implementation. November 1 is set. But let's just take it easy, give it till 1 July 2015. Businesses say that they will not be able to rebuild the system in six months, but will need 10 to 12 months. Why don't we give them an extension until 1 July 2015? If this is only due to the sources of cover, it is assumed that revenue will have to come to the state budget, then, ladies and gentlemen, this is the wrong approach. We cannot, ladies and gentlemen of the Reform Party, approach the problem in such a way that the sole objective of the burden on businesses is to cover the costs of others. It just can't be like that. This morning, eight letters from business organizations were brought into our mailboxes. They recommend measuring nine times and cutting once. There is nothing strange about companies having different opinions. Dissenting opinions may remain, but we must at least discuss all these opinions. It hasn't happened now. To sum up, I think this is incredible incompetence. I'm afraid we're thus violating our relationship with the entire business community. We are able to publicly and officially insult all entrepreneurs and all business umbrella organisations, considering them foolish and quoting newspapers as guardians of tax fraudsters. I just don't think it's correct. Taking time off, giving normal entry into force triggers, having meaningful discussions with those who will be affected by this change, arguing over the problem points, arguing their positions, maybe if they disagree, then, I think, this would be a normal process. We could and should do that in the coming weeks. I do not think we should support this bill today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U202	Thank you. I, too, have this President's decision ahead of me, and I will read a paragraph about it: 'The aim of reducing the amount of money missing from the state budget due to VAT fraud and ensuring fair competition between economic operators is undisputedly constitutional and the size of the so-called VAT hole confirms the need to take steps to prevent VAT fraud. " It is also in his text, and it should not be forgotten. As regards whether the proposed measure is in any way too burdensome, I will give a couple of figures. At present, the tax office controls 3% of the VAT returns and this brings EUR 25 million to the state budget. This work is done manually. This means telephone calls, clarification, contacting companies for whom this entails additional administrative burdens. This is what the tax administration can and can do now, given its human resources and efficient working arrangements. If the tax authorities can compare purchase and sales invoices, this will act as a preventive measure. Businesses who are malicious and want to commit some kind of fraud have the fear that one or the other bill might be checked. Tax Administration's new IT development scans bills and finds inconsistencies. This will allow a lot more bills to be processed. Let us compare 3% of the bills that tax inspectors check manually, with 25 million euros in the state budget, and with an electronic system that does not know how many contradictions. The volume of data will be incomparably larger in the future. The tax office can rely on all these data when carrying out a risk analysis and does not always have to call the company to ask where it is or where it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U203	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U204	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good waitress! You're still getting there that most entrepreneurs are some kind of villain, as my son likes to say about various bad guys. I think that entrepreneurs are not bad, most of them are honest, so there is no point in talking about it. It is worth reading the President's decision as a whole. You read the paragraph from the beginning where the President really indicated that fraud had to be dealt with, but in the end he came to the conclusion that this was a disproportionate measure. I would like to ask you, as a liberal, whether you discussed in the Commission whether this so-called super-database is, in your opinion, essential for the state to exist, whether the state needs an overview of the interaction between businesses. I cannot agree with this at all, and I am greatly surprised if the Liberals feel that way. I have another question. Why don't you specify how much you're hoping to get income and what the cost to society will be of this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U205	Good questioner! I don't think you listened to me. I certainly have not called Estonian entrepreneurs any villains. I know very well that the IRL Group has also stood up for combating tax fraud and tax fraud over the years. Neither you nor we need to close our eyes to the fact that there are entrepreneurs in Estonia who are involved in tax fraud. We are actually working on this draft for a common goal, the fight against tax fraud.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U206	Aivar Chef.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U207	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! If you look at this bill, you can see that the law should start to apply from 1 November. We all know that retail sales are the largest in November and December. We met on Monday with representatives of the tax authorities and businessmen. The head of the tax administration said that they will be able to run the program by November. When will the time come when entrepreneurs will start putting their programmes into operation to be compatible with the tax administration's programme? We are always saying that around EUR 30 million should come in revenue, while business organisations claim that running costs are EUR 40 million and one-off costs are EUR 15 to 16 million. How are those proportions in place? Is it really the case in Estonia that an entrepreneur pays more for the program than the country receives after tax?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U208	Thank you. At the beginning of your question, there was doubt as to whether the entrepreneurs would be ready by 1 November. This means that the first declaration should be made on 20 December. If the tax office says that they are ready to implement the new solution, then of course this means that 1 November will be preceded by a test period, when the accounting software developers offer their solutions, in the same way the software can be tested by entrepreneurs. If an entrepreneur already sees that, for some reason, he is not able to complete the IT developments in time, he will be able to apply for a half-year extension from the tax administration. I think I've already referred to it two or three times, and it's also in the text of the law. In essence, from now on, it is possible to prepare for the transition to the new system for over a year.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U209	Andrus Island, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U210	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! With this draft becoming a law, businesses have expressed concerns about the security of the collected data, or the super-data base. Compared to the data currently available to the Estonian Tax and Customs Board, the volume of data is increasing significantly. Retail businesses themselves have pointed out that they alone should declare millions of items. I hope that the data security level of the Estonian Tax and Customs Board is very high, but in the end, computers and servers are controlled by people, and sometimes these devices fail. How is the full security of these data still guaranteed for economic operators?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U211	Thank you. Good waitress! I believe that everyone in this Chamber agrees that tax fraud must be combated. That's not the question. The question is whether only tax fraud is being combated or whether the freedom of business of honest entrepreneurs is being restricted. The President also clearly used the term'restriction of the freedom to conduct a business' here. I'm gonna ask you the same question again. Should this draft law not first be amended so as not to restrict the freedom of business of honest entrepreneurs and not re-table it as a law for adoption in a situation where nothing has changed here?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U212	Thank you. I described in my previous answers the steps taken by the state to combat various types of tax fraud, starting with the fuel sector and ending with cars. The draft to be discussed concerns businesses across sectors. Its aim is to combat tax fraud both in a preventive way and in a real and daily manner. If you, my good colleague, have any suggestions on how to fight further tax fraud, please present them. The Ministry of Finance has described possible alternatives in the explanatory memorandum. The Committee on Finance is currently dealing with the reverse charge of precious metals, which is coming here. The workers' register, which directly helps to prevent 'black work', is coming here in the same way. These steps have been taken. This draft is cross-sectoral; these changes are being made in the name of an overall fair tax environment. Believe it!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U213	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U214	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, After all, there is a pretty large amount of money planned into the budget, which this law should have already entered into force. This law will enter into force, perhaps, on 1 November, as you say. But how do you cover the tax hole that has been created in this year's state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U215	Thank you. Your question does not deal with what has been discussed in the Commission. However, I can rely on the information I received at yesterday's meeting with the representatives of the Tax and Customs Board, where the members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs were shown the details of how VAT was collected within three months. It turned out that VAT had already started to arrive better, in a situation where turnover has even decreased. Think about it, these vectors are in different directions, and think about the reasons for it. I do not dare to say the exact number, but in three months this year, tens of millions of euros were received better than the forecast. It would not be worth worrying about this year's budget and VAT today, given that the draft will hopefully enter into force as a law on 1 November.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U216	Thank you. Please, Thomas Tõniste, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U217	Thank you. I think that entrepreneurs must be thanked for the good VAT receipts. They must be thanked for having them and helping us to implement the state budget. Everyone should keep that in mind. That is why one part of my question arises. How many people in the Committee on Monetary Affairs with a business background who supported this draft? It is particularly worrying that no specific answer has been given so far to how much this bill will cost. No one's ever had that answer. Sadly, most businesses have not dealt with this issue at all. When I ask the entrepreneurs about this, they grab their heads and complain that it causes a great deal of headache. You have not taken into account that, at a difficult time, when business leaders have to deal with this problem in order to make profits, we now have to deal with it for months. No one has counted the price. My wish is not to throw sticks into the spokes of the one who feeds you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U218	Thank you. I believe that all members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs and all members of the Riigikogu understand very well where and from whom money comes from to the state budget. I don't think there's any point in coming to the Committee on Monetary Affairs to teach, I suppose everyone understands that. I realized there was no question, it was a comment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U219	Thank you very much. Please, Andrus Island!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U220	Ladies and gentlemen, good entrepreneurs. It is the day-to-day work of entrepreneurs that gives employees work and brings them bread on the table. This is why the public sector operates in Estonia, and people working there get paid. My deepest respect! Honest entrepreneurship is undoubtedly both good and necessary at the same time. It would also be nice and necessary for an undertaking to have state support so that a sucker next to it could not so easily operate at a lower tax rate and thus push an honest entrepreneur out of the market. It shouldn't be that you pour your concrete stone and pay all taxes, but then you'll see that next door, the other one sells the same thing cheaper than taxes. The overall objective of the draft is therefore fully understandable and positive. On 29 January this year, I had the opportunity to participate with Remo Holsmer and Eiki Nestor in Estonian Television Forum on the same draft. Eiki Nestor was very angry with the bill, and I tried to be as constructive as I could. I'm still trying to do that. First. I am delighted that the germs have begun to drive my proposal, which I have made on the programme, so that the reverse VAT can be used more widely. Indeed, the Estonian tax system would be better if we applied the reverse VAT tax more. If, for example, we look at Germany, where the most active use of the reverse VAT tax is being made from the countries of the European Union, i.e. there is virtually no business-to-business settlement, the situation in Estonia is significantly different from that in Germany. I believe the real roots of the problem are in this place. In Germany, VAT is paid through the final consumer. The same change would make the issue of VAT easier, clearer and more transparent for businesses in Estonia without being bullied. The interesting thing is that the draft own explanatory memorandum supports this approach in essence. Now it seems ridiculous to take the whole peasant's mind to take advantage of the fact that first operators in the sectors that are switching to reverse VAT should invest in the implementation of the new annex to the VAT return and then, hopefully in a short period of time, in much more areas than has been mentioned so far, to switch to reverse VAT taxation. Therefore, the first thing, and as a matter of urgency, should be to clarify in which areas it will be possible to switch to reverse VAT taxation in the future. In these areas, these software updates would undoubtedly not need to be made. Of course, we are faced with the problem that the cross-cutting definition is very confusing in today's economy and that there may be an increase in turnover concealment in these areas. However, the current draft does not address the problem of turnover concealment either. For a good provisional government, it may be understandable that if today we demand software upgrades and tomorrow we switch to reverse VAT taxation, it may seem that the attitude of the state is somewhat reckless to the entrepreneur. You can't put your whole life in the hands of gold dealers, and you don't have to. As a reminder, reverse VAT is a much simpler form of taxation. We also see its positive impact on the North American model. Second. I have read very carefully the letter from President Ilves. The President is concerned about what the most recent explanatory statement of the draft is still silent on. This is a risk of industrial espionage due to such concentration of data. Please do not confuse the possibility of industrial espionage with possible data leakage. The Tax and Customs Board has always denied this possibility. These two things may or may not fall together. Do smart and innovative entrepreneurs dare to risk 40 good and smart tax officials to monitor exactly how entrepreneurs have built up their business and with whom they interact? After a while, these fine young people can quit their jobs at the tax office and do exactly the same thing by becoming an entrepreneur, but trick even better, which would be perfectly normal and perfectly legitimate behaviour. After all, we favour enterprising youths who want to educate themselves. Information brought together by the tax administration would be an excellent learning material. However, the possibility of going elsewhere with your company outside Estonia due to the risk of security is too great for the draft and the President will refer to this in his letter. Can the solution be changed so that the data is not automatically aggregated? No other country has ever done such a thing with such sensitive data. Creative thinking would certainly succeed in finding a solution that would meet the objective, but would not seem to be such a delicate issue for innovative entrepreneurs. Three. Of course, one-off, even partial, support for software innovations should be applied for in the beginning. The estimated one-off cost of a very good Estonian company, Tallinn Kaubamaja, based on these specific calculations is EUR 200000. Most likely everyone knows that Tallinn Kaubamaja does not engage in VAT fraud, at least their current activities have not given rise to such a start. I have also consulted directly with the Ministry of Finance before raising this issue on this board, where it was thought that this proposal would be State aid, which I, in turn, have the courage to question. Of course, we need to talk again about timing. Such a model, if the law was to be adopted immediately and would be in force less than six months after adoption, and only then would the software be tested more widely and, on the basis of all this, communicated to businesses what they must do very precisely, will force businesses to work unnecessarily hard, which must be done in an abnormally short time. Leaving aside all the other factors that have been addressed in previous speeches, I would say that in fact the service would also become too expensive, because there is a limited number of IT specialists and if the time remains very short, the market would have an abnormally high price level due to abnormally high orders. Once again, these were practical proposals, how we could help Estonian entrepreneurs and do so on the basis of this objective, so that they can do their job honestly and trust the country whose actions consistently favour entrepreneurship. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U221	Thank you. Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U222	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The processing of the draft Act amending the VAT Act and the Accounting Act in the Riigikogu is a regrettable example of how a good idea and a worthwhile initiative can be squandered. The fight against tax fraud has been devalued as a primitive class struggle, where "bad entrepreneurs" and "good states" are opposed. With this contrast, the Minister of Finance has succeeded in creating a negative image of entrepreneurs, as if most of them were tax fraudsters. The Minister of Finance has become an extension of the hands of the tax administration and ministry officials, and for a long time it seems that the government of the Republic of Estonia has a cashier instead of a finance minister. However, the Ministry expects a broader view. The disproportionate and unreasonable obligations imposed on entrepreneurs by the draft we are dealing with will make Estonia's business environment worse. The implementation of the law will increase the bureaucracy of the state, thus increasing public expenditure, increasing the bureaucracy burden on businesses as well as the cost of all businesses. If the budget is to be more than EUR 1 million in the future, it will be used to cover additional expenditure, the amount of which the Ministry of Finance has been unable to assess in any way. Such tax collection is a substitute activity and self-deception. Major tax fraud cannot be dealt with and therefore disproportionately much resources are spent on collecting pocket money, placing an additional burden on all economic operators without being able to explain the justification for such a move. Unfortunately, the draft proposed principle of constitutional proportionality has not been taken into account. Moreover, the time for implementing the law is absurd. Paragraph 1 (7) of the Act enters into force on 1 July 2014, i.e. less than two months after the adoption of the Act. The law as a whole should enter into force on 1 November 2014, therefore less than six months after the adoption of the law. This is an unreasonable short period of time, given the necessary preparations for the implementation of the law. In the Committee on Finance, we learned that the tax office itself has been preparing for the implementation of the law for a long time, but that companies will still have a basis for new activities and spending only after the adoption of the law. More than that. Paragraph 171 is added to paragraph 46 as follows: 'A tax authority may, on the basis of an motivated request from a taxable person, authorise not to submit an annex or part of the VAT return until 20 June 2015. The authorisation is granted if, on the entry into force of the obligation laid down in subsection 27 (12) of this Act, on 1 November 2014, the administrative burden on the taxable person to carry out IT developments would become unreasonable. The application must be submitted to the tax authorities by 31 August 2014 at the latest. The tax authority shall take a decision on the granting of the authorisation within 30 calendar days of receipt of the request. ' It is neither reasonable nor justified to grant the tax authorities the subjective right to consider and decide when the law actually applies to one or another undertaking. The tax authority is not competent to assess the information technology developments of companies, the financial possibilities for them to be carried out and the possibilities for cooperation with software developers arising from contractual relationships. In addition, it also treats companies unequally, as different undertakings incur legal obligations at different times. This is contrary to the principle of equal treatment. The proposal by the Fatherland and Res Publica Union that the law should enter into force in a uniform manner and at the same time, on 1 July 2015, was voted down in the Committee on Monetary Affairs by the votes of the members of the Socialists and Reform Party. Thus, companies start writing motivated applications, tax authorities start checking and evaluating them, and later disputes are submitted and courts are seised. Many people are happy to work, and the field of work of civil servants and lawyers and lawyers is expanding. But why such a circus, if all of this can be avoided by the rational entry into force of the law in a uniform manner for all operators? I'm gonna finish what I started. It is a pity that sensible proposals and the voice of business organisations were not taken into account during the procedure. Inclusion has been formal, not substantive. If it were possible, as an initiator, I would take back such a cull shyly, but unfortunately I don't have that chance. If the government coalition does not agree to interrupt the second reading of the draft in order to bring the draft into line with the Constitution and common sense, then we will probably be able to discuss it again in the Riigikogu, but this is already after a legal assessment from outside the Riigikogu, where things are not decided only by a majority vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U223	Thank you. Please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U224	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Tax fraud is a problem. This has been confirmed by everyone on this speaker's desk today. This issue must be dealt with consistently and solutions must be sought, which is what we are doing in this Chamber. The draft law amending the VAT Act is designed to be noble in every way and, if you do not go into the details, it seems that it will also fully strengthen fair competition. However, the content of the draft is still completely anti-business. I would also like to stress that this draft has been drafted in an unscrupulous manner. Despite the fact that the President has not declared the law once and sent it back to the Riigikogu, no substantive changes have been made since the explanatory memorandum. Questions that were not answered earlier have not been answered to this day. The new provisional government promised more openness and involvement when it came to power, but with its first drafts, it will show what kind of involvement was meant. The dozens and dozens of constructive proposals of business have not been taken into account and are truly regrettable. Businesses are interested in reducing tax fraud, and we in this Chamber should fully support honest entrepreneurs. Rather, the hurricane with a weak draft shows panic when preparing the state budget for next year. It is clear to everyone that one dairy cow is a draft law amending the VAT Act in order to comply with budget promises for the following year. However, there is no certainty about the revenue to be earned, because, as stated in the draft, the amount of expenditure that businesses have to spend in this short period of time clearly does not rely on the serious arguments either on the amount that the draft is actually intended to make. The worst part is that this is an extremely disproportionate approach. According to the Tax Administration, nearly 80000 companies are under the cloak of 6000-7000 companies who are suspected of tax fraud. However, after the entry into force of the Act, all companies will have to bear high costs and these costs will be higher than the revenue generated by the State. In view of all this and also of what the previous speakers have said, I propose, on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, that the second reading of the Draft Amending Act on VAT be interrupted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U225	Thank you. Please, Andrus Ansip!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U226	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I remember, and I believe that most of the people in this hall remember the days of the 1990s when there were hours of queues in front of the local offices of the tax administration, because people wanted to act as honest taxpayers, and that is why they wanted to take their individual income tax returns to the tax office. It was also possible to post these declarations, but a lot of people wanted to get peace of mind, deliver the declaration to the tax officer and get confirmation that they had done everything right and that they were honest taxpayers. To tell you the truth, I never got that confirmation from a tax officer because the tax officer didn't look at the declaration in my envelope, he only accepted it, and that meant standing in line for hours. In 1992 the employees of one of my companies sold ice cream at the Expo World Fair. My surprise was that at the time, the cash register used for the sale of ice cream in Seville was directly connected to the main server of the World Exhibition. Rent's place of sale had to be paid in proportion to turnover and the rent could not be disputed because all income and turnover were known to the organisers of the World Fair. In Estonia, we couldn't have dreamed of anything like this. It took time for a single tax return, but a pilot project was carried out in 2000 and from 2001 all individuals will be able to declare their income electronically. But it didn't come easy. Exactly the same speeches that we have heard in this Chamber today sounded back then. It's anti-business! Declaration of individual income by electronic means will increase the administrative burden! It's anti-human! What if this super-database leaks? What if this super-data base gets caught by criminals? Are people going to blackmail them? At present, everyone using the e-Tax Board is satisfied with the system. More than 95% of individuals who declare their income use the e-Tax Board and no one complains. Businesses are also satisfied. To be honest, we can figure out who the 4% income is from the declarers who still use the paper declaration to declare. In Estonia, the share of e-Tax users among the Member States of the European Union is highest, but Portugal has rapidly approached Estonia. We do not compete with Portugal, but there is still a sense of danger that we should feel when others come after us very quickly. Looking at VAT, we can see that Portugal is far ahead of us. All VAT declarations by companies are made electronically in Portugal. It is also time for us to abandon the Stone Age method of controlling turnover. Right now, the tax officer goes to the company, sees something suspicious there, means it's going up somewhere, goes to another company after a while, sees that suspicions had cause, but unfortunately, in very many cases, it is no longer possible to get the unpaid tax from anyone. A good colleague, Toomas Tõniste, said that all VAT fraud places are known. Unfortunately, these are not all known to the IRS. If we take the step of electronicising VAT declarations, the tax administration will have much more knowledge. All honest taxpayers, all honest Estonian entrepreneurs, will certainly benefit from this. Let's take this step! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U227	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, We have been discussing a bill in this Chamber for a long time, and it does not seem to be close to the heart for most of us. We did not get an answer to almost any of the questions we asked here. Is it right to discuss a draft which is important for businesses if we know that no umbrella organisation for businesses supports this draft? Do we want businesses to lose more and more confidence in the state every day? When we asked questions today about how much this law will cost businesses, we did not actually get an answer. We have received only one answer to the question of how much the state could gain from this law. Is it right to impose a one-off cost of EUR 16 million on businesses and EUR 40 million on running costs per year to get EUR 30 million out of an estimated VAT hole of EUR 268 million? Is such a measure proportionate to the fight against VAT fraud? Let's just be honest, then, that we just need to get that kind of money, because we have this kind of cost. Has the Tax Administration discussed and analysed all options for dealing with tax fraudsters? Let us begin by assigning specific tax officials to companies or groups of companies in the same sector. They shouldn't be changed all the time. At the moment, it is often the case that today someone from the IRS is asking for some information about your company, but in three months' time, someone else will be there who knows nothing about your company or its activities. Secondly, we know where there are greater possibilities for cheating. We will use reverse charge there to eliminate suspected fraud or find cheaters. Third, there is a constant talk of a large number of cheaters in construction. We make the same decisions in the construction sector as was made in our neighbouring country, Finland, where tax receipts have improved considerably and 80% of taxes are estimated to be received. For some reason, they do not want to go to the tax office of a neighbouring country and ask how tax fraud is being combated in that building and how the conditions have been created for subcontractors not to work without money if the main contractor receives money, but ultimately he does not pay it to the subcontractor. Why are we punishing 80000 companies when we know, as a result of the risk analysis, that there are about 1000 fraud companies? Is this still a proportionate measure? I stress that we know that the estimated tax gap is about EUR 433 million, including the VAT gap of EUR 268 million. With this law, we want to create a super database for the tax administration to get only EUR 30 million. There's a mistake here somewhere. Why are we trying to get only EUR 30 million with such a large and important law? If there's a super-data base, who's gonna give you a guarantee that the IRS won't leak... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U228	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U229	... corporate business secrets? After all, the human factor and the resulting risk will always remain. Why do we want to make decisions in haste without analysing costs and benefits? Why has this brilliant idea not come to Germany or France, whom we set an example for ourselves? Some countries have tried such a thing, but unfortunately they have failed. Should we put this burden on our businesses and test whether we will succeed? The question arises as to whether it is right to start with such a major change in November. We all know that November and December are the month with the highest turnover in retail trade. Yes, I know that the tax return will only have to be submitted on 20 December, but at the same time we know that we also need to switch to a new system. The tax administration itself is now ready for this on 1 November and only after that will companies be able to switch to the new system. The question arises as to whether we are doing this law merely to cover half of the amount that the state is denied due to a 1% reduction in income tax. Finally. I support the identification of tax fraudsters and the honest business climate. But is it right to place a greater burden on businesses than we collect in taxes? In my opinion, this is a criminal offence against businesses. Especially in the current economic situation, where the economy is not growing but is on a downward trend. We better test this system in companies in one area. Let's do it for a year or two and then we can make a final decision as to whether this bill is good or bad. We keep our entrepreneurs because, as a result of their good work, we can make decisions by sharing the tax money they earn in this Chamber in order to do the Estonian thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U230	Thank you. Please, Thomas Tõniste! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U231	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I can safely say that I have been perhaps one of the most positive people in our group so far on this draft. I hope that I will continue to take a good view of this draft. But I've had a big question from the start that I've wanted an answer to, but I haven't had one. I wonder how much this law will still cost entrepreneurs. I wonder why it has not been possible to answer that question so far. In essence, the answers have been about the following: One accounting company said he wouldn't take any money for the upgrades. The second spoke of some EUR 5 or 9. What exactly did he take it for, I didn't understand. However, when you talk to the other party, the entrepreneurs, it turns out that one company costs EUR 200000 for this innovation, the other company, which, because of its interest, started to figure out how much it would cost, had an invoice of EUR 2000. The saddest thing is that most businesses, I dare say that 95% or more, have not dealt with this issue at all. The reason is very simple. They say they have so much work to do, they don't have time to deal with it, they hold their heads and they pray every day that we don't put another shit on them here. We can think about all kinds of positive ideas here, we can think that the IT company will complete the programs, then try a little bit, and that's all right. The real life is different. The programmes will be completed and then the company will be told to start reporting the data. And then what happens? What is happening is that the key players in companies who, in the current economic situation, have to think about how the company will survive and act to ensure that the company makes profits and is able to pay its employees' wages, are working for several months to make this system work. I'm sure of it. It is not so simple that each company needs a single programme. There are storage programmes, sales programmes, accounting programmes and other programmes that must first be reconciled. Just because someone's somewhere making an interface to a country server doesn't mean that all the rest of the stuff is going to fit together. Programme producers, a large part of whom are foreign companies, say that one interface costs 400-1000 euros. But some companies need to make seven or eight interfaces. Now 30 or 40 million euros have been proposed as costs. The companies initially offered more, almost EUR 100 million, but then they simply tried to take out the so-called air and thought that this cost could be estimated at around EUR 40 million. However, we are putting in there the work that must be done by business leaders, which we have not included in the money. You can't judge it that way. We want to generate revenue with this bill, estimated at EUR 30 million. I hope that the money is more, because the great work and the hard work that must be done for it must be worth the money. Costs are of the same size or even higher, because annual fixed costs are added. We have forgotten about small companies that do not do accounting themselves, but buy this service. They're gonna have to put this package together, which means the CEO's gonna have to do some extra work again. Then he gives this package to the accounting company, gets a bigger bill, etc. We are essentially introducing a new tax, and we are taking EUR 30 to 40 million from companies, so that we can have the same amount in the budget. It would be more honest to say that each company should pay an amount every year or every month. It'll be a lot easier for everyone. This money could be given to the Tax and Customs Board to try to combat tax fraud more effectively, because the places where fraud is mostly occurring are all known. We have already raised the issue that the current measures do not, in substance, contribute to this fight. The places where the money is lying and the fraud is taking place are not covered by the law. This is precisely the case for honest entrepreneurs who pay taxes and who now simply incur additional costs. This also means higher prices. You can already hear every day that prices in Estonia are high. That's what everybody says. We are now taking another step to ensure that prices are even higher. Good luck to everyone in this enterprise! In my opinion, it is pathetic that the time for submitting VAT returns is 20 December. At a time when everyone is very busy, entrepreneurs receive another wonderful Christmas gift from the Riigikogu. For no reason did I ask Remo whether there were people with a business background who voted in favour of this issue in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. It is very nice to always bend all kinds of taxes on everyone and at the same time to say that we are a business-friendly country and support entrepreneurs. Believe me, fewer and fewer entrepreneurs want to be in this country. It's one of the few things that follows it all. My final result is that it is worth dealing with this bill in any case. I believe that the main winner will be the catering sector, where I have met honest entrepreneurs who have said that this will help them because the black money will disappear from the market and the workers will no longer be able to pay so much of the black pay. The competitive situation of these companies is improving. I hope that the situation will improve in other sectors as well. However, this bill is still too crude, and a year could, after all, give entrepreneurs time before it enters into force as a law. It would be fair to everyone, and it's not that fast. I believe it would be right to interrupt the procedure now. If we don't, I hope the President has the courage to send the law back here this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U232	Thank you. Please, Peter Laurson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U233	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I have been at the debate on this draft from the beginning and have participated in all the meetings where it has been discussed. Nevertheless, I am not in favour of this draft, and I am also not in favour of the procedures involved in the preparation of this draft, because I do not approve of the way in which it has been done here. It has not been correct. Now I'm talking about the substance. The implementation of the law is accompanied by an intense restriction on fundamental rights, which is disproportionately strict. It is comparable to a situation where a lecturer, knowing that someone is cheating in an auditorium, asks everyone to take themselves naked, and it doesn't really have a result. But the reality is even worse. The company does not know who will be able to access its data. He's afraid he's gonna go through his data, photograph them, pass on the information, or use it. The costs incurred are not in proportion to the expected revenues. The focus is only on the cost of software and hardware. These costs are already extremely high for both the state and businesses. But it has been considered irrelevant the time that a company manager or accountant is going to spend to share explanations about data that do not automatically coincide with one another in comparison. Remember, most of the companies don't have an accountant at work, and the CEO is the one who does the job every day. Where does that time come from? Following the entry into force of the legislative amendment, a super-database with business secrets of the entire country will be created. Of course, they say it's safe, and strangers can't get to it. Do you remember when the Titanic went off, they thought he was an unsinkable ship? Yet, there was an accident, and everything collapsed. What happens when a super-data base is stolen or the data contained in it is misused and sold? What happens if this data becomes available to a hostile organization, an intelligence service in a hostile state? All the business secrets of our companies will be gone and our country will be wounded. Our country is very small. The law has completely failed to assess the security risks of the state. Now let's go to the drafting process. Last year, there was a round table, where no of the organisations present was in agreement with the points of the draft and all of them had objections. There has been no consensus on any opposition and no next round table has been convened, where these same organisations could have been satisfied with the current approach of this draft law. It never happened. As we know, these organisations are not happy either; they have expressed this in their letters and in their statements in the newspapers. The meeting of the Monetary Commission of 15 April revealed that the Tax and Customs Board has made considerable expenditure on software development necessary for the implementation of the law. At the meeting of the Committee on Finance, EUR 400000 was mentioned. When I asked who authorized this activity, Minister Jürgen Ligi said that he gave it, as his minister, could do such things.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U234	Your time is up. Would you like more?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U235	Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U236	How much?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U237	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U238	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U239	I asked him if he didn't value his powers too much. It was followed by silence, he must have been ashamed. At the next meeting, the minister no longer remembered exactly what had been confirmed at the previous meeting. The cost of preparing the software began to be amazed at all. However, the Tax and Customs Board found that the money has been used, but now we are talking about only EUR 60000. In today's paper, I read that the journalist has been told about EUR 80,000. What is the correct data? The amounts are high and there is no clarity. Why be dimmed? Those are simple questions. Have there been any procurements? I don't want to believe it. Who takes responsibility, Minister? I don't believe it. The minister continues his arrogant attitude. In any case, I do not support any progress on this draft. Second reading should be interrupted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U240	Thank you. Please, Urmas Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U241	May I have an extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U242	Sure, I'll ask you. Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U243	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Members of Parliament! I think that the process of this draft has resulted in morals that could be a guiding principle for us in our further work: there is no point in correcting it with error. Yes, the aim pursued by this draft for the initiation of this draft, the intention to which all political forces have expressed their support, that tax fraud must be combated, is correct. However, we must admit that we have acted dirtyly in the process of dealing with this bill. It was also the President of the Republic's assessment when he exercised his right to a suspended veto on this bill. In its decision, the President of the Republic has highlighted a very clear message and given us a warning: we must avoid a situation where the law enters into force and is then declared unconstitutional and invalid, but businesses have already made their spending. In addition to possible claims for damages and the increase in the workload of courts, this situation would damage the Estonian business environment and reputation. In other words, the law will apply, it will be recognised as constitutional in the course of legal proceedings, and we will be faced with the big shit that we have caused ourselves. The President drew attention to another deficiency which we have not been able to overcome in the course of further processing of the draft. The Riigikogu should comply with its decision, which it has made, approving 'The Developments of Justice Policy until 2018', which was developed under the leadership of Rein Lang. It provides that businesses and civil society organisations must be involved in drafting draft laws and discussing the advantages and disadvantages of possible regulations. This is, in fact, one of the most important criticisms that has been made against this draft. Even this morning, business organisations sent us a letter stating that it would not be reasonable to push through this law in such a hurry. On Monday, the IRL convened a round table of representatives of business organisations. Their main concern was precisely that they were completely excluded from this debate. I also believe that the central problem with regard to the unconstitutional position that the President mentioned has not been resolved in this draft. In the President's view, such an intense restriction of the fundamental right is disproportionately strict. The President says: 'Therefore, the proposed restriction on the freedom to conduct a business cannot be considered credible at this point in time to significantly improve the VAT receipts and to avoid the actual refund of unpaid VAT to fraudsters. Nor can it be argued that there are no other less stringent means of reducing the VAT gap at least to the same extent. ' Parliament passed this law, the President vetoed it, and Parliament unanimously decided that this law should not be adopted unchanged. We agreed that we would essentially work on this draft with this intention. But there was a turn, and again, they tried to correct one mistake with another. At the time of the publication of the new coalition pledges package, the growth forecast started to shrink. There was an urgent need to find sources of cover for promises, and it was precisely for this law, which was declared to be incompatible with the Constitution, that was chosen to be passed in such a form. A comment has been made, like other measures to help achieve the objective (as pointed out by the President), has not been made. The IRL Group held serious discussions with a number of business organisations and with the taxpayers' association, from which a number of practical proposals were drawn up to prevent and prevent tax fraud. I do call on the Chamber to be able to discuss, as a matter of national importance, how to prevent and prevent tax fraud, and to ask for representatives of business organisations in this Chamber as well. I now list the options proposed by the taxpayers' association instead of the VAT return. I do not take the view, but I would point out that business organisations have offered solutions, they have not simply been passive and criticised the law because they do not want fair tax behaviour. The Union offered to extend the reverse charge on domestic transactions; to introduce the current security requirements for the sale of liquid fuel in other problematic sectors; to use building permits information, to strengthen the control of construction sites; to levy VAT, such as for car vendors when the buyer pays VAT on the seller's MTA account, would also be appropriate in other areas; to consider changing the VAT return form by adding boxes for different types of transactions and imposing additional declaration obligations only on certain groups of companies or on request of the MTA, by specifying the mandatory electronic form for submitting copies of invoices. So the package of alternative measures to combat tax fraud is on the table. The oil union has also put forward its proposals. Regrettably, we have not looked at other options, but at the moment, under the political pressure of the coalition, we have moved on this path of starting, as I said, to correct the mistake with error. This is not sustainable. We have been warned about this by the President of the Republic with his veto, which means that the non-inclusion of the draft is not in accordance with the Constitution. If, however, the law is enforced by majority votes, we will have given a severe blow to our business environment and caused an incredible mess when the law is declared to be in breach of the Constitution. My proposal is to act together. Let us put aside political differences and interrupt the reading of this draft, take time off, put on the table this package of proposals and go through a normal process of involvement with business organisations. In this way, we will find a solution that will help to ensure that tax behaviour improves and business organisations are not completely excluded from dealing with large-scale regulation on the economic environment. I think that Mait Palts' words that from the last ten years he will not remember any draft that would have been dealt with by such an exclusive method, without involving business organisations, are serious criticism. We don't need to close our eyes to it. Good friends! I call for the political interest of the party to be excluded and for the growth to come from entrepreneurship and, by ignoring entrepreneurship, it is not possible to achieve reasonable results. Our common interest is that fair tax behaviour in Estonia should work and a large tax hole would be eliminated. We have a number of proposals on this. Let's not put them aside, let's not ignore the real problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U244	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu speech chair Aivar Riisalu! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U245	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, My speech will be rather bouncing, but since second reading is the place where a person can express his opinion, let me bounce. It's just that when you listen to all this, it's come to your mind. I think we all agree on tax fraud: they cannot be tolerated in any way; they must be combated. This is a very specific task. I recall a number of cases when very clear anti-tax fraud measures took years. I've repeatedly given an example of fuel science from this remote control. For two years, we couldn't do anything, even though everyone knew even the amount that the country was missing. When the law had been in force for a year and a half, then the Chairman of the Monetary Commission at the time, the current Prime Minister, triumphantly announced that we have won EUR 100 million in the budget. That billion kroons a year was the right amount. I don't understand why we couldn't get all this into place before, and this war went on for two years. This is an extreme example of the need to act quickly at times. But another extreme example is how people change their minds. I have a page with me that says how this bill was voted on the last time. Here, as they say, only leaned towards the Reform Party, because they have always supported this bill. The Centre Party has voted against it and the Reform Party has always been in favour of it. Now the coalition has changed. All the Social Democrats who voted back then voted against the draft, but today they are in favour of it. However, the IRL, which, to a large extent, did not vote in favour or vote in favour, is now very passionately opposed to this draft. Look, I think it's a hospital room situation. How can it be that in a few months, people who have been chosen by the people, who have mostly higher education, who are adults, over 18 years old, can change their minds like this? This is possible for the simple reason that they are forced by circumstances. But, you see, these circumstances must not be reflected in society, but unfortunately they are reflected in such a procedure. The saddest thing is that this alleged consensus with business organisations, which seem to exist, does not really exist, in my opinion. It makes me sad. I'm a passionate person, I don't understand how you don't understand that the way we look outside is also important. What matters is not only that we have to essentially change our mind at 180 degrees. We're here today, like something in ourselves, and we don't care what's going on around here. But we're not really the owners of this country. We are the bearers of the will of the owners of this country. That's why we don't have the right to make these 180-degree turns in our brains. I'm going to make an admission to the IRL in the sense that they didn't agree with this bill before in the corridor conversations, and if they're against it today, it makes sense even if they're from somewhere. But it's like a serious shot. Consider that the people we are disturbing by such legislation will eventually start to see what someone did, what he said and what he thought. I will tell you honestly and directly that all of this creates uncertainty. The word 'VAT' has caused quite a lot of horror in the context of legislation in business circles in recent years, because we have been able to do foolish things in this regard before. I sincerely hope that the result of all this is not that, for example, rent invoices will be presented by room in the future, so that the amount will be less than EUR 1 000. I sincerely hope that Latvia will not become the main trading partner for any technology, means of transport or raw materials, in the sense that Estonia will import these things from Latvia. Because the same honourable European VAT Directive, which my colleague Paksosta has been passionate about, makes it possible that very many things will be brought from Latvia at all without VAT. If the goods remain at its own disposal, there is nothing to worry about, the goods do not have to be sold and the obligation to pay VAT does not arise, use, produce, live and not. All these nuances come to it. We actually know where our troubles are. Let me give you another example. I was approached by construction companies. In symbolic terms, the object we're talking about is even funny. In the framework of the procurement of the construction of the Tartu opening prison, seven of the largest Estonian companies made an offer, the difference of which remained 5%, but one company made a 48% cheaper offer, which basically led to the conclusion of the contract. There was a real panic. In the construction company association, it was a joke that they made an offer to build another object. Since I, as a MP, received this information, I tried to talk to the Minister of Finance and elsewhere here and there. No one listened to me very seriously, because some disgusting opposition politician is not being taken seriously. Fortunately, the results of this procurement were not confirmed and the mind was won. But do we know how many times we don't have a mind in this situation? I had it myself once that when I lost again in public procurement, I went to see how this competition would work. It turned out that the public procurement had been won by one self-employed person. I took out his report, but nothing necessary was reflected in that report. I asked the state company who was the organiser of this procurement why they do this. It was the 2009s, it was a painful year. On this point, the representative of this state company told me that he had what he had left over, he had a budget, and he was also under pressure. Look, as long as we do not impose normal price levels as a country, companies will not be able to communicate with the country on the basis of normal price levels, as long as subcontractors are not paid and there are still any such problems. That's where we should start. But today we are disrupting the entire business environment and putting people in a protest instead of constructive. Then they start looking for all kinds of opportunities and doing things that we don't want to do. That is why I urge you to think again. This may be the right thing to do. But why exactly EUR 1 000, perhaps 5,000 would be more correct? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U246	Thank you. Please, Liisa-Ly Pakosta! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U247	Thank you. Please, Remo Holsmer!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U248	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Estonian state has consistently taken steps to stand up for an honest tax environment. A system of guarantees created in the fuel sector can be mentioned by way of examples from the recent past. In cooperation with the Estonian Association of Tax and Customs Board, Road Administration and Car Sales and Service Companies, significant results have been obtained since November last year in combating VAT fraud related to the import of cars in six months. By the middle of this year, the labour register will be operational, helping to reduce the use of illegal labour and better protect the rights of workers. The Riigikogu is currently working on a draft on the reverse charge of precious metals. All these changes have been made in the name of a fair tax environment and will benefit both businesses and the wider state. It is estimated that more than EUR 200 million of VAT per year will not be collected. By comparison, the Ministry of Culture has an operating budget of EUR 150 million this year and the same VAT hole is half of the budget of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. We are talking about very large sums of money. The creation of an electronic annex to the VAT return is the next step in the fight against the tax hole. 95% of the VAT refund claims are executed in Estonia within three working days. 3% of declarations are subject to additional checks, i.e. manual checks, and an additional EUR 25 million will be received in the state budget after requesting additional information. The tax office expects an additional EUR 30 million for the implementation of the electronic annex to the VAT return. A good colleague, Juhan Parts, has said that this is too little ambition. Maybe it is, and we don't know that amount exactly for a cent. But one thing is certain: the business environment will be more honest. This draft does not aim at bullying businesses, nor is it intended to obtain EUR 30 million from anywhere, nor is it intended to find additional sources of cover. The aim of this draft is an honest tax environment. The idea of an electronic annex to the VAT return was the first debate held in September last year in the Committee on the Prevention of Tax Fraud, consisting of representatives of business organisations and national authorities, as well as the Minister for Finance, who chaired it. In principle, the Commission supported the idea and found that the project needed to move forward as quickly as possible. This has been followed by discussions, coordination circles and requests for opinions on the draft both in the government and in the Riigikogu. All this peaked at the end of the year by the President sending the law back to the Riigikogu. The President of the Republic did not contest the purpose of the draft, but referred to the need to better justify the law and analyse the subject. It also highlighted legal inconsistencies with the Accounting Act and the obligation to declare transactions covered by the obligation of professional or professional secrecy. The Ministry of Finance has submitted a new draft and a comprehensive explanatory memorandum to the Riigikogu. Mostly as a result of the proposal of large retail chains, they will be allowed to submit invoices in aggregated form until the end of next year. The draft is planned to enter into force as a law. a 1 November, but companies can apply to the tax authorities for a half-year transitional period for submitting declarations and updating IT systems. Both the initiator and those groups who have supported this draft in the Committee on Monetary Affairs want the transition to the new system to be as convenient as possible. I admit that the transition will take some time from businesses in the first phase and will lead to additional costs, but I hope to understand why the state is asking for this. It is in the interests of both the state and businesses to ensure a fair tax environment and equal competition in business. No party in the Riigikogu should argue against this. Today's speeches also confirm this, at least in terms of rhetoric. Given the fact that 17 of the 22 members of the IRL Group also supported the draft at the end of last year, it is now highly divisive to oppose this draft. All right, over time positions may change, but in addition to criticism, solutions and alternatives should also be offered. I have not seen any amendment that would have come to the Committee on Monetary Affairs from the IRL Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U249	Would you like some extra time? One more minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U250	Instead, I have heard dozens of questions and many criticisms today. In this sense, I very much agree with Mr Reinsalu, the head of the IRL Group, that the political objectives of the party must be clearly excluded from this draft. Consequently, the Reform Party Group supports the completion of the second reading of the draft and the adoption of the third reading as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U251	Thank you. Please, Rannar Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U252	Ladies and gentlemen, There have been quite a number of substantive debates on this subject here at different times, now and also last year. I was inspired by the need to come to this remote control first and foremost to admit that I was lost. To get to the way I'm lost, I have to get back in time. We remember having a heated debate here when the same subject was first unraveled. Then the majority of the Riigikogu found that the law was good enough to adopt it. The president thought otherwise and decided not to declare the law. He gave reasons for his opinion, drawing attention to three issues. One was possible inconsistency with the VAT Directive, the other was possible inaccuracies with the laws governing the rights of lawyers and notaries, and the third was proportionality of the measures, which is what is being done, versus what is being pursued. As a result, he decided not to declare the law, and that is why we are renegotiating it here today. Consider the logic with which the Western cultural space has been operated since Aristotle. It can be said that this draft has been improved due to criticism. There has been a long discussion here, and the most talk has been about proportionality and justification. But really, the explanatory memorandum to the bill that reached the Riigikogu was quite limited. It got a little thicker here, and now it's over a hundred pages thick with the extras. One might ask whether quantity is always a guarantee of quality. It may not be the case every time, but this explanatory statement is quite thorough and it can also be said analytical. In any case, the draft is now considerably more justified than it was at that time. Whether it's enough or not, it's a matter of taste. As a result of this logic, the question arises: once the draft has been improved, whether those who did not support it at the time were against it or did not vote, now support it. That is, in my opinion, a legitimate question. Once things have been improved, a priori it can be assumed that those who then supported it will support it now. Now I'm getting to where I was wrong. I once came to discuss with a member of the Reform Party of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I was then absolutely convinced that there was no way that the IRL could vote against this draft, because it would not make any sense. I found that there are certainly other drafts that are still coming to the Chamber and are being held in a serious debate, and we will probably see the IRL, which is now in opposition, quite actively acting in its new role. But I thought they couldn't vote against this bill. Looks like I was wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U253	Thank you. Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U254	Ladies and gentlemen, I am enriching this debate by starting with a quote from one of the many letters that we have received from business organisations because of this draft. Businesses end their letter in this way: 'The solidarity of entrepreneurs and heads of state must be mutual. We also expect an audit of the state's operating costs and concrete plans to cut excessive bureaucracy and make the state more effective in all areas and throughout the territory of Estonia. ' I think that, given all this contradiction or incomplete involvement, this sentence may have a pretty big meaning. Remo Holsmer said above that the purpose of the draft is not to receive EUR 30 million from anywhere, but to aim for an honest tax environment and hopes for an understanding from businesses. Unfortunately, it seems to me that we, as a country, have not been able to create this understanding. We have failed to do important things, such as the self-government reform, which is stuck in the fact that political parties are unable to agree on this and are once dragging the blanket to one side, once to the other, so that this reform has become a joke. The funding of political parties or many other problems have not been resolved either. In any case, the fact is that entrepreneurs in the Republic of Estonia do not feel the support of the state. My mind refuses to accept this statement that the Estonian Taxpayers' Association, EVEA, the Estonian Accountants' Assembly, the Auditor Assembly and others, who have sent many proposals here and are still not happy with the current result, are organisations that, just as if they are not standing up for an honest tax environment. I think it is appropriate to propose that the draft should be suspended. The problems that the President raised at the end of last year are still largely up. The aim may be noble, but the means are disproportionate. The change in the substance of the draft cannot necessarily be measured by the length of the explanatory memorandum, which is the main thing that has changed in the meantime. I pass on why the position of the IRL and the Social Democrats has changed. Well, that's a little funny. But in his speech, Remo Holsmer gave an example of a small businessman who, just as he has supported this bill. At the same time, he left aside a number of papers and letters that we have received on our desks and in the e-mail box during this time. I do not think the use of such rhetorical techniques will arouse confidence. At the end of the day, I'm talking about the expenses made by the Tax and Customs Board. There is talk of EUR 400000, EUR 80000 or EUR 60000. Yes, it can certainly be said that contracts have been concluded and that everything is just as legitimate. That is not the question. The question is what we will be together for at the Riigikogu's birthday, when the executive will spend, assuming that as a rubber stamp of the Riigikogu they will continue to legitimize. This is not a correct approach. When spending is done in advance, there is still a acute problem and we must pay attention to it in Parliament. I agree with those who have proposed suspending the second reading of this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U255	Thank you. Please, Marko Pomerance! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U256	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm glad to see you're more gathered here, so there's someone to talk to in the next eight minutes. Although there's already a nice birthday celebration in the White House, I'd like to say before work and then fun. I'm not going to repeat everything that's been touched enough. I am not talking about proportionality or the fact that the IRS is doing some kind of software procurement or everything that goes along with it. I'm talking about the facts. Friends! You have listened nicely here to all the speeches that have been made during these months during the procedure on this draft. We will come back to the so-called first third reading of this draft. Sven Sester, Chairman of the Monetary Commission at the time, my good penguin and a good man, said already then that this draft was made in the context of the state budget next year, hastily and it contains problems. Regardless of whether or not the President would not have declared this law, there was an understanding in this Chamber that this law would have to be improved in the new year if they returned to the Riigikogu in January. That's what we've been doing. The president just missed a busy time. As you can see from the speeches, the problem is that taxes are not due and that the bill is still bad. To all those who do not understand why the IRL voted as it did in December, as it did, I say that it was logical and statesmanlike in every way, just as our understanding is that the draft law needs to be fine-tuned. But why do the Socats act the way they do? It doesn't make any sense. [[Laughter.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U257	Ladies and gentlemen, No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. We will examine the amendments. Amendment 1 has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the proposal of the commission is that this amendment should be fully taken into account. Amendment 2 has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the proposal of the commission is that this amendment should be fully taken into account. Amendment 3 is a proposal by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the proposal by the commission is that this amendment should be fully taken into account. Amendment 4 has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the proposal of the commission is that this amendment should be fully taken into account. Amendment 5 is from the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the proposal of the commission is that this amendment should be fully taken into account. Amendment 6 is from the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the proposal of the commission is that this amendment should be fully taken into account. Please, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U258	Thank you. Amendment 6 calls on the IRL Group to vote. We're talking about the date of entry into force.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-23_U259	Thank you. We'll vote it through. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 6, which has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The proposal of the Steering Committee is that this amendment should be fully taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 43), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 18 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The amendment was therefore supported. The amendments have been examined. The Riigikogu Board has received the proposal of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union to interrupt the second reading of the draft Act amending the VAT Act. We have to vote through this. Let's get ready for the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Association to interrupt the second reading of the draft Act amending the VAT Act. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 20) and 44 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. The commission proposes that the second reading should be completed. The second reading is closed and today's sitting is over. I wish everyone a good evening and congratulations on Parliament's 95th birthday. Closure of the sitting at 5.27 p.m.
