ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-06_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the Monday session of the fourth working week of the VIIIth plenary session. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. First, Mrs Heili Tõnisson, the representative of the Government of the Republic!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-06_U2	Mr. Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic will present today one draft decision of the Riigikogu and six draft laws. First of all, the draft decision of the Riigikogu entitled 'Crediting the European Stability Mechanism to create a tool for the direct recapitalisation of banks'. Jürgen Ligi, Minister of Finance, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia when processing this draft. Secondly, the draft law amending the Ordering of Arts Act. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Culture Urve Tiidus in the Riigikogu when this bill is being processed. Thirdly, the draft law amending the arms law and related amendments to other laws. Fourthly, the draft law amending the Citizenship Act and the State Fees Act. Hanno Pevkur, Minister of the Interior, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the above two draft laws in the Riigikogu. Fifthly, the draft law amending the Maritime Safety Act and the State Fees Act. Sixthly, as amended by the 1981 Protocol, the draft Act on the Accession of EUROCONTROL to the International Convention on Air Traffic Safety Cooperation and to the Multilateral Agreement on Route Charges. The seventh draft law amending the Aviation Act and the State Fees Act. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by Urve Palo, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, when dealing with the above three draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-06_U3	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-06_U4	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Recently, the question of how to better involve young people in public life and how to count their votes has risen sharply in the Chamber of Riigikogu. There are those among us who think that there is a need to change the constitution for this. We members of the Centre Party disagree on this. At present, young people can apply to the Council through the Youth Council as well as select a council. There is perhaps one point missing, according to which these young people can represent their choice in practical terms. To this end, we propose that § 47 (1) of the Local Government Organisation Act be amended so that any member of the Council and the Youth Council is entitled to belong to at least one committee. If we introduce this legislative amendment, every member of the Youth Council can actually participate in local life every day.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-06_U5	There are no other applications. Seven draft laws and one draft decision shall be adopted by decision of the Executive Board if they comply with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Please, let's do the presence check! 85 members of the Riigikogu are present and 16 are missing. Next, we need to confirm the weekly agenda. Honourable Riigikogu, I shall vote on the approval of the weekly agenda. Please take a stand and vote. There are 72 members of the Riigikogu in favour of approving the agenda, 5 against, 3 abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-06_U6	Let's get to the approved agenda. The first item on the agenda is an inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu, Siret Kotka, Heimar Leng, Lauri Laas, Enn Eesmaa, Eldar Efendiev, Priit Toobali, Urbo Vaarmanni, Mikhail Korb and Viktor Vassilyev on the spread of African swine fever. Heimar Lenk will perform on behalf of the heirs. Heimar Lenk, please introduce the inquiry.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-06_U7	Thank you for the floor. The subject of our inquiry is the African swine fever, which is currently worrying. Time goes fast, of course, every day changes around here, so maybe some things have come to light or some things have come to a different place. I'll start with a little review of history. I would remind you that it was September 8th when the Food and Veterinary Office announced that the dead boar found in the Hummul municipality of Valgamaa was diagnosed with African swine fever, which meant that this highly dangerous animal disease has officially reached Estonia. In the past, cases of African swine fever were recorded several times in Latvia, Lithuania and Poland. There has also been talk about Belarus and the strategy proposed there. That's how it's gone. In the middle of July, the disease was registered in Latvia about ten kilometres from the Estonian border, in the Valka region of Ergeme municipality. It was therefore only a matter of time before the disease reached Estonia. It was mid-July. Inquiries ask that if this disease had already reached quite close to Estonia in mid-July and on 5 August it might have been necessary to start pre-defence work or pre-defence work earlier. Aren't we too late? What is the current state of play and what can farmers expect when this plague suddenly explodes in Estonian pig farms? We have asked four questions. The Minister has certainly read and answered this question. I hope he will add fresh information on the current situation of the spread of this disease in Estonia. As we know, there's not a very big spread yet, but we don't know what's gonna happen tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. So it would be nice if the minister would answer us nicely now and tell us how the stories are, what is waiting for us and whether we can be calm that the Estonian Ministry of Agriculture and the Veterinary Office can handle this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-06_U8	The question must be answered by the Minister for Agriculture, Ivari Padar. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-06_U9	Honourable Riigikogu! When you start by asking the last question, Mr Leng, whether it can be peaceful with regard to the disease, it is natural that when dangerous diseases are spreading, you can never be calm, you must be very careful. That's right. It has not been a year since we had a dangerous disease in Estonia. Crazy cow disease, Newcastle disease, foot-and-mouth disease, everything we've had to deal with here in the past. Now the first question of the question: 'If it was already known in August that the African swine fever might have reached Estonia, why didn't there be an all-Estonian information campaign that would have informed people about the plague and provided guidance on how to behave, for example, in a situation where mushrooms find a dead wild boar of the plague in the forest? ' As regards the spread of African swine fever in neighbouring countries, preventive measures have already been in place since 2011 by the Food and Veterinary Office to limit the spread of infection, such as a ban on the import of uncooked feed, border checks on the baggage of all travellers coming from third countries to prevent the introduction of prohibited meat and meat products, etc. Those requirements have been updated, with the addition of a ban on the dispatch of domestic pigs and wild boars on the farm, for example. The public has also been informed of the requirements. Communication of people through different media has been almost daily since spring 2004. In August, the Ministry of Agriculture, in cooperation with the Veterinary and Food Board, opened a dedicated website, which is currently being supplemented by pigkatk.ee, which has, by the way, also been translated into Russian, with comprehensive information on African swine fever collected by target groups. Press releases on the situation are being made on a regular basis. In addition, questions and information about suspected animals can be left at the Food and Veterinary Office hotline 6054750. The Ministry of Agriculture, the Food and Veterinary Office and the National and Local Disease Control Commission shall hold informative meetings with pig farmers, meat business operators, animal transporters and hunters to provide further information on African swine fever, discuss issues to be resolved and receive feedback for further action. Relevant information has also been shared with the representatives of the Estonian Agricultural and Rural Economy Advisory Services. The animal health centres of the country concerned shall further inform the local keepers and feed producers of the measures taken to prevent and control African swine fever in order to avoid transmission of infection to domestic pigs. The animal keepers will be provided with information leaflets on the plague in both Estonian and Russian. Question 2: "To what extent does the government intend to compensate farmers for direct and indirect damage caused by the plague? Indirect harm can be understood, for example, as a situation in zone II established by the EU, where a pig farmer may not export live animals or meat to other EU countries even if there is no disease on his own farm. ' Estonia has an effective compensation mechanism for the damage caused by African swine fever. The costs incurred by the keeper and the losses caused by the disease situation can be compensated by three sources used in a coordinated manner. First, the animal keeper shall be compensated for the direct costs associated with the control measures for African swine fever in domestic pigs in the case provided for, in accordance with and in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Animal Disease Control Act and the relevant European Union legislation. For example, the value of the animal slaughtered under an injunction, including the value of the equipment and the value of the feed destroyed under the precept, including those slaughtered, killed and killed by an animal disease, shall be reimbursed. The damage caused by the eradication of African swine fever as a particularly dangerous disease is compensated by the state budget allocated to it from the reserve of the Government of the Republic. The compensation for losses incurred in connection with the control of animal diseases shall not exceed 100%. It depends on the possibilities of the state. Where the amount of the disease-related payment based on the applications accepted exceeds the resources allocated for the payment of the disease-related payment, the Food and Veterinary Office shall reduce the level of the disease-related payment taking into account the resources available for the payment of the disease-related payment and in accordance with the principle of equal treatment of applicants. All analyses relating to the suspicion of disease shall be free of charge in the zones established for hunters and keepers. At present, African swine fever remains only in the wild boar population. Another source is the emergency measures of the market organisation. Estonia is able to request emergency support from the European Commission in relation to trade restrictions that may result from the application of measures to prevent the spread of animal diseases or from market disruptions directly due to a loss of consumer confidence. These measures compensate the producer for serious market disturbances such as a significant decrease in consumption or prices. Implementation is subject to an implementing decision of the European Commission setting out the conditions to be met by the applicant and the rate of European Union co-financing. In addition, the Ministry of Agriculture plans a new compensatory measure in the rural development plan for the period 2014 to 2020: restoring agricultural production potential damaged by natural disasters and disasters and introducing appropriate preventive measures. The estimated budget for the action is EUR 1 million, which is to be found at the expense of RDP measures for the same target group. The measure will allow support for investments aimed at repairing agricultural land damaged by natural disasters, adverse weather conditions and disasters and restoring production potential, including the purchase of animals. The aid shall be conditional on the destruction of at least 30% of the agricultural potential due to an officially confirmed disease. The target group is farmers whose investments in restoring the damaged agricultural production potential are supported up to 100%. From a third source, it is possible to grant aid of up to EUR 15000 to primary producers in three financial years as de minimis aid. This expenditure shall be covered by 100% of the national budget if the national budget resources are allocated for this purpose. The third question: 'One of the most potential distributors of the plague may be pig owners who grow one or two pigs and who have not officially registered their pigs. If these farmers happen to be uncontrolled by the veterinarians and to sell the meat of pigs infected by the plague, they will contribute to the spread of the plague and the country will have no control over their activities. How does the state plan to control and control such activities? ' Today, cases of infection with feral pig disease have been detected in Valga and Viljandi counties and in Ida-Virumaa. No African swine fever has been detected in domestic pigs and domestic feral pigs. The veterinary authorities of the Food and Veterinary Office have, with the assistance of authorised veterinarians, visited all known keepers of pig farming, checked compliance with biosecurity requirements, advised and distributed relevant publications in both Estonian and Russian. In order to monitor and assess compliance with biosecurity measures by pig farmers, animal transporters and processors, the Food and Veterinary Office has exponentially increased the number of visits to these establishments and private households. Only properly behaved keepers can be compensated for possible compensation. Non-compliance with disease control measures leads to liability under the Animal Disease Control Act. As the virus currently circulates among wild boars, the most important risk is that of wild boar meat. In cooperation with hunters, a possible solution has been reached where the Food and Veterinary Office will indicate on the hunting permit for all wild boars released that the animal has been examined and may therefore be used. This ensures that all hunted wild boars are examined for African swine fever. Question 4: 'Veterinary and Food Administration is today able to visit and inform farmers and farms. No financial resources are available for further sampling and laboratory testing of animals. Have, and to what extent, the government planned to allocate funds for the sampling and testing of African swine fever? ' Monitoring samples for African swine fever shall be taken more frequently from domestic pigs throughout Estonia, in the restricted zone. In addition, all wild boars found and shot are examined as disease is known to remain in the wild boar population. In order to co-finance the operational costs of the African swine fever prevention and control programme, including the analysis of samples, the European Commission has allocated additional funding to Estonia already this spring. The pre-planned test volume shall be 2223 samples by the method determined and 1400 samples by the PCR method. One sample may need to be examined by both methods. As of 9 September, 1068 samples of the proposed 2223 have been tested by ELISA in the veterinary laboratory, 308 of which were taken from feral pigs and 760 from domestic pigs. 667 samples of the proposed 1400 have been tested using PCR. The scope of the investigation is still ongoing. This volume has been increased in line with the evolution of the disease situation and the Food and Veterinary Office has submitted an application to the European Commission for a sum of EUR 220000 to cover the costs of analysis. In order to obtain a greater financial contribution from the European Union, cooperation will also be carried out with Latvia, Lithuania and Poland and a coordinated joint disease control plan has been submitted to the European Commission. The Ministry of Agriculture has also submitted a request to the Ministry of Finance to allocate EUR 590000 from the government reserve. This relates to the additional work carried out by the Veterinarians authorised by the Food and Veterinary Office this year and to the purchase of equipment necessary for the inspection of the Veterinarian and Food Laboratory of Vireen special-purpose appliances, as well as of the refrigeration container and mobile kiln. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-06_U10	There are questions for the Minister. Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-06_U11	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Mr. Minister! The African swine fever virus is nothing new to me. I heard about it almost 40 years ago, in military medicine classes. It was then also considered to be a possible biological weapon, and at that time there were corresponding crisis plans in the 'large' country. Tell me, please, does the Food and Veterinary Office currently have emergency plans for the possible occurrence of animal diseases? Foot-and-mouth disease is from time to time, a few years ago there was a panic about anthrax, and now there's an African swine fever. Are there approved and updated crisis plans to combat such things?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-06_U12	Yes, it is. The Food and Veterinary Office has a comprehensive package of measures and crisis plans for behaviour in different cases when we are talking about dangerous infectious animal diseases. Since there have been various dangerous infections at different times, the veterinary authorities also have experience of implementing crisis plans. So the situation is very contained.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-06_U13	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-06_U14	I didn't really hear the answer from you about the state of play. But I understand that's not very worrying. But maybe there's one particular question here. If, suddenly, a farm is infected by this virus and the pigs have to be killed, does the state pay the farmer's money completely to the farmer as much as a pig?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-06_U15	Yeah, absolutely. We also have one experience from a few years ago with the Talleg Canal, where the country paid 100% off all birds that went to be destroyed. After the State has paid off the damage, the European Commission will compensate for 50% of the damage incurred in accordance with the agreement. We also have a joint proposal from four countries, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland. We have proposed that the European Commission compensate for up to 100% of the disease damage in these four countries. This week there will also be a joint meeting of the four countries' chief veterinarians, where this proposal will be discussed again. It is possible that next Monday, at the meeting of agriculture ministers in Luxembourg, this issue will be on the table, and then it should be clear whether the European Commission is willing to compensate for this damage up to 100%. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-06_U16	Tiit Tammsaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-06_U17	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! In my opinion, however, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Veterinary Office have done a commendable job in the organisational plan, and the money has also been allocated. However, as we know, there are practically only two contingencies in contact with pigs, including those affected by the plague: the staff of the veterinary service and the hunters.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-06_U18	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-06_U19	I also agree with the Ministry's view that animals must be disturbed as little as possible so that they can move as little as possible. On the basis of this, hunters have proposed that, if it were possible to hunt with the appropriate accessories, this little interference would be ensured. Today, the Riigikogu was handed over the arms law. What is your ministry's position, for example, on the use of dampers and spotlights?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-06_U20	It is very difficult for the Ministry of Agriculture to take a position on dampers and spotlights. But it is clear that these proposals must come first from the Ministry of the Environment. There's a hunting council at the Ministry of the Environment who has to decide what's here and what's not reasonable. I can say on this whole subject that when these problems came up at the beginning of this year, I did not have the idea of being the Minister of Agriculture. Even at that time, there was an edge of views on how to deal with feral pigs, from the massacre in the forest to the fact that they should not be touched at all. That's why I too look forward to making a reasonable decision on how to deal with the population by the hunters themselves. The positions of the Ministry of the Environment and the hunters with regard to various appliances, both lights and dampers, have been very different. This is where I trust hunters. In any case, what I can say is that the current practice, where animals have been moved on a massive scale, is very bad practice. The fact that they arrived at one point in Latvia and Lithuania's border regions was probably due to the fact that Belarusian colleagues were very radical and radical solutions caused panic in the forest. It hasn't justified itself. In this case, as a non-Yielding specialist, I also believe that maintaining a balance in forests is the most sensible.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-06_U21	Thank you. There are no further questions for the Minister. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish to negotiate. The Minister also has no wish for a final word. I will close this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-06_U22	The next item is the inquiry into the dairy sector by the members of the Riigikogu Tarmo Tamme, Mikhail Korbi, Valeri Korb, Urbo Vaarmanni, Siret Kotka, Viktor Vassilyev, Kadri Simson and Enn Eesmaa. Tarmo Tamm, on behalf of the heirs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-06_U23	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. This inquiry is about the Estonian dairy sector. A similar question could be made about the Estonian fisheries sector or the meat sector. As time has passed, some of the information presented in the inquiry has changed in the meantime, for example, Latvia has already supported its farmers with more than EUR 10 million, with EUR 6.5 million mentioned in the question. But that's it. In the last analysis of the Institute of Economic Affairs, it was found that due to the Russian import ban, Estonia needs to find new markets for production with a financial volume of up to 150 million euros. Although direct exports to Russia of goods subject to the ban amount to EUR 75 million per year, it is supplemented by the same amount of raw materials and products which, while being transferred to the countries of the European Union, were exported to Russia. For example, Estonia's dairy sector exports large quantities of raw milk to Lithuania, from which it moved to Russia, largely processed into cheese. While in April Lithuanian buyers paid Estonian farmers nearly 400 euros for a ton of milk, in the second half of August the price has fallen to 270 euros, in September it has already fallen to 220 euros. Although there has been talk for years of greater added value to Estonia's production, exports of raw milk in the dairy sector remain regrettablely high. In 2013, raw milk was exported to Latvia and Lithuania worth 79 million euros, which is almost a third of the total milk produced in Estonia. Estonia also lacks tolls, unlike many other European countries. Therefore, the buyers of Latvia and Lithuania use Estonian infrastructure, but do not contribute to its maintenance, which gives them a competitive advantage. In this regard, we have four questions for the Minister. Maybe it's better for the minister to read the questions himself and then answer them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-06_U24	The Minister for Agriculture Ivari Padar answers the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-06_U25	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will answer the questions you have asked. The first question: 'Your colleague, Anne Sulling, Minister of Foreign Trade and Entrepreneurship, confirmed that the state is helping entrepreneurs to create the necessary direct contacts to find new target markets, using the Estonian network of foreign representatives and honorary consuls. What has the government done in addition to helping the Estonian dairy sector since the introduction of the Russian import ban? ' We have stressed both at national and European level that the most effective anti-import measures are those that have been developed and implemented in a coherent manner at European Union level. That is why I have stood for action at European Union level to be implemented as quickly as possible and as conveniently as possible to us. From the second week of September, the private storage measure for butter, skimmed milk powder and cheese was launched in exceptional circumstances due to the deteriorating market situation in the European Union and the intervention buying-in of butter and skimmed milk powder opened until the end of September was extended until the end of 2014. The private storage measure was closed for cheeses already on 23 September, as a disproportionate number of applications came from Member States which did not have large-scale trade with Russia. No applications were submitted for private storage of cheese from Estonia. As of September 2014, no requests to participate in the intervention buying-in had been submitted from Estonia either. On 22 September, a joint letter from the ministers of agriculture in the Baltic States, Poland and Finland was sent to the European Commissioner for Agriculture, discussing the need for stronger support for the dairy sector in countries affected by sanctions at European level. The letter proposes to grant milk producers in such countries, in addition to the existing aid, an exceptional production-based direct payment. Special support was given to the fruit and vegetables sector in the framework of the emergency market organisation measures. We have been working on opening up potential new markets. The Food and Veterinary Office has sent letters to countries such as Indonesia, Taiwan, Kenya and Tanzania to send import requirements to Estonian milk producers. The Commission allocated an additional EUR 30 million to information and promotion activities in the European Union. We have actively introduced the possibilities of this measure to the sector and, as things stand, Estonia is also receiving a potential programme concerning beef. Internally, we will review the circumstances surrounding the implementation of the RDP measures in order, where possible, to change certain emphasis that will help the sector to take advantage of the opportunities offered. For example, MAK investment measures are not crisis measures in nature, but their successful implementation and targeting will help to reduce the effects of subsequent crises and market failures. For years, we have been applying support for market development, in which Estonian food sector organisations have received support for 111 projects in 2014 to provide information on how to participate in fairs, market research, etc., for a total amount of more than 1 million euros. These local food campaigns were very visible in September. We have considered the possibility of asking for prior authorisation to review the choice of agricultural direct payments. According to the current Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council, this possibility is only available in 2016. We have also met the banks and the Rural Promotion Foundation and discussed possible payment holidays and the measures offered by the MES. Both parties agreed on the need for flexible solutions. We have also actively met with the sector's own representatives in order to assess the situation operationally, exchange information and look for solutions. The second question: 'Latvia plans to pay its farmers €6.5 million in additional payments this year because of the sanctions imposed by Russia. Does the Estonian Government also intend to find additional funding for the dairy sector? ' I am saying that at this point I do not see an opportunity to find extra money in the state budget, we are talking about the year 2014. The third question: 'In the Question Time held in the Riigikogu on 10 September, you agreed that although Estonia produces very stable and high quality raw milk, its re-processing capacity has remained in the way of time. The production of dairy products with higher added value in Estonia instead of raw milk exports would create new jobs and additional added value. What are the steps taken by the government to increase the processing capacity of milk in Estonia? ' Here, we have a whole series of RDP 2014-2020 measures to implement. The "Investments in the processing and marketing of agricultural products" measure will support added value for agricultural products, including milk and milk products. The total amount of the measure has increased by EUR 22 million compared to the previous period and amounts to EUR 67 million in the new period, making it one of the most budgeted measures. The aim of the measure is to increase the competitiveness of agricultural processors, improve the functioning of the supply chain, increase the efficiency of processing, as well as support producers and their cooperatives for the next stage of the production chain, i.e. the process. Support shall be granted for the purchase of equipment and investments in buildings. It is also planned to support a major project aimed at establishing a completely new processing unit. Although all sectors are also targeted by the major project, it is most likely that the dairy sector will need and be ready to carry out the project. The target group of the measure is companies of all size groups, i.e. micro, small, medium and large enterprises. The budget is also broken down by size group and the rate and maximum amount of support depending on the size of the undertaking. The co-operation action will support food-oriented R &amp; D projects aimed at finding solutions to help food industry operators create greater added value through their activities. The cooperation action has a budget of EUR 6.3 million. Measures aimed at developing food quality schemes are also available to encourage the introduction of added value and specific food products on the market. The specific characteristics of the products are the result of more stringent production requirements than conventional products, or of specific production methods decided to be applied by the producers which are parties to the scheme. As additional costs will be incurred by producers that are included in the food quality scheme, the rural development plan will compensate for the fixed costs of participation in quality schemes by EUR 3000 per undertaking per year. In addition, producer groups will be able to apply for support for information and promotion work in the implementation of the quality scheme in order to promote their own production more actively. There are currently two recognised national food quality schemes in Estonia: production of Peipsi onion and meat from grassland cattle. Question 4: 'The European Union's milk quotas will disappear in April next year. Previously on 2013/2014: During the quota year, the adjusted milk delivery quota in Estonia was 99,41 per cent, which suggests that producers exceed the quota during the current period. What is the forecast of quota utilisation at this stage and is the government also planning to provide support to milk producers in the event of a fine? ' In the first five months of the last quota year starting on 1 April 2014, from April to August, it can be said that if the increase in milk supply continues at the same level, i.e. 7,9%, the Estonian supply quota would be exceeded by around 7,3%. It is true that the recent deterioration of the market situation and the decrease in the number of purchasers of milk has had a dampening effect on delivery, which led to an increase in the quantity of milk bought in in August to 5.5% compared to the previous year, while in previous months it reached 8 to 9%, the actual overrun of the delivery quota remains considerably lower than the previous year. The milk quota system is a measure to limit the supply of milk within the framework of the European common agricultural policy, with detailed and strict rules that are directly applicable to all Member States and equally enforceable. Member States are left with limited discretion on only a limited number of issues, and in such cases the respective powers are clearly laid down in European Union legislation. For example, when determining whether an individual quota has been exceeded, the Member State has the right to decide whether or not individual overruns will be reduced proportionately, to the extent of the outstanding quota quantity of producers who have not exceeded the quota and to the extent of the quota quantities available in the national quota reserve. However, when paying the calculated surplus levy, European Union legislation does not provide any possibility for states to manoeuvre, and any support granted by the State to producers who have exceeded the quota is considered to be a breach of State aid rules. In addition, as regards Estonia's quota, quota overruns and possible surplus levy, a large round table for milk processors and producers is planned at the Ministry of Agriculture by 6 November, where we provide information on the risk of quota overruns we are currently seeing and the conditions for paying the surplus levy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-06_U26	Questions for the Minister. Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-06_U27	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Minister, thank you very much. It was very refreshing to hear your presentation that everything is going in the best direction that we increase subsidies, contribute to additional equipment and bring added value. Putin is saying exactly the same thing in Russia that new jobs are now being created and the economy is growing. So it turns out that these European sanctions are a gift from God to both sides. But this unfortunate Estonian producer cannot sell its milk anywhere, negotiates with Costa Rica, where, by the way, very little milk is consumed, where about 50% of the population is lactose intolerant. Moreover, the whole of Europe is now trying to sell its milk there somewhere. Dairy farmers say that children should be forced to consume more milk at school, to increase their milk standard. Has this matter been addressed to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-06_U28	As regards whether schools have addressed us directly in order to increase the milk consumption of children, I will be honest with you that they are not. We have an effective school milk programme and to the extent that milk is available to all children. In any case, it is clear that every possible internal consumption must be encouraged. Well, since there's been a lot of talk about it, I'm not gonna go over it here. As regards the large sums of money that I have been talking about here, even if, for example, 67 million in the manufacturing industry, here is the fact that this money is available compared to other money, and we need to use it sensibly and well. I think that the sensible implementation of this industrial measure, even for the Ministry of Agriculture, is certainly one of the most difficult tasks of the next two years to implement this measure in such a way as to maximise the benefit to the primary producer, the farmer, as well as the fisherman. I also say from my current practice that active work is taking place in a large number of markets, but it is clear that the results may not come at all so quickly. Let's take the same Chinese market. I went there 13 years ago to discuss matters in the Chinese market, and this week I have a new meeting with my Chinese colleagues where this issue is being discussed. When it comes to large Asian markets, we are aware that these countries are lactose intolerant and are not a habit of milk consumption. However, it is still very large markets, and it may also be as practitioners on the ground say that, even through pizza cheese, the consumption of certain dairy products has increased. In this respect, too, it is that the quantities of Estonian products that we are talking about are not very large, but we must, in any case, work seriously with these large markets, and we will still achieve something. The problems are to solve them.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-06_U29	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-06_U30	Thank you. Mr. Minister! Do you not think that the country and the government should still support farmers who are currently suffering from sanctions? After all, it was a political decision, and the government should be responsible for it. By going around Estonia a lot, I can say that farmers are not satisfied with the agricultural policy of the current government and say that the minister does not seem to be fighting for his area of responsibility, farmers.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-06_U31	Dear Marika Tuus-Laul! You're a very senior person here. Do you know any years or seasons when farmers have been satisfied? But it is clear that, in this case, there are various risks in certain sectors. One thing is that there is a global fall in food prices on the world market. This concerns the dairy sector, the meat sector and the cereals sector, in particular the cereals sector. The issue of import restrictions has now been added to this. Then we have a pig plague. We still have national issues, for example, concerning the budget, where it is clear that the main emphasis has been on those things that you will be discussing here, for example, on national security. So what's important? What is important is that there are some things in the budget for next year that have so far been financed at a completely minimum level. For example, guaranteeing the work of the Agricultural Registers and Information Office in order to be able to implement new support mechanisms from the first half of next year. We've got more money for that. The second point concerns the Food and Veterinary Office. For example, increasing the fees for authorised veterinarians, they have been at the same level for years. We have achieved this. Indeed, we can pay more to those good people, authorised veterinarians, who are not much in Estonia. There are fewer than a hundred people who are now working hard every day, moving from barn to barn and trying to prevent infection with the disease of domestic swine. What we really have not achieved is that we have not received additional money for the European Union-Estonian joint support, the same thing called top-up, that is 23 million euros. However, it must still be taken into account that the budget for the following year is estimated at around EUR 300 million for rural and agricultural support. Nearly 300 million euros! We may ask whether these funds are directly linked to agriculture, whether Natura forest support or other such subsidies, we are talking about some EUR 30 million. But in general, it is still that if we take this 300-million-dollar support package apart, there are things in the absolute majority that actually support agriculture and rural areas. The fact that there is 300 million and there is not 323 million euros is now a place of resentment. It is obvious that there are serious areas of underfunding in agriculture where co-financing has not been achieved by 2015 for certain reasons, but I will be working to ensure that these underfunded items are covered by the state budget in 2016. Of course, every Minister for Agriculture needs to be very clear about his own budget, but in 2014, the second half, which is linked to transnational problems, will have to be looked at.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-06_U32	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-06_U33	Thank you. Dear Minister, I listened to your answer, and I can't keep quiet because I want it to look a little more objective. First of all, you said that you would review or have already looked at the circumstances of MAK and that you would change the emphasis. You have brought here, for example, a processing industry measure of 67 million. Am I right to remember that this is considerably more than in the previous period, but less than the previous government had planned it was well over 70 million and the MAK Steering Committee also approved it? In fact, the new government has reduced the processing industry measure, firstly. Secondly, the market development measure planned in the budget, to which you also referred, will also be somewhat smaller next year, according to my data, than this year. Is that true or not, can you confirm? You also referred to the possibilities offered by the Rural Promotion Foundation. The financial instrument, which is one of the main instruments of the MES, is also significantly smaller.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-06_U34	Question, please! The speeches will come later. Ask!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-06_U35	Plus top-ups. Is my information that I just shared right now correct? What are you really going to do to really help the sector?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-06_U36	I think your information is absolutely wrong. [[The cavalry.]] The figures you mentioned were in the rural development plan that the Government of the Republic had not confirmed. In this respect, I am still talking about the figures that have been confirmed by the government and which are in the rural development plan. What is clear, there is nothing to hide here, is that all the measures of the rural development plan passed through the harvest shed in the spring. In the same way, all the measures discussed by the ex-Minister were also covered by the food industry measure. That was the compromise that was reached in the government. Compared to the previous period, EUR 22 million is more. Indeed, the initial plan was over EUR 70 million, I do not deny that. But the amounts that I have spoken about today have passed through the government debate and have now also been confirmed in the five-year budget plan of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-06_U37	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-06_U38	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. Actually, the situation is pretty sad. How many countries that are allowed to pay additional benefits but who do not pay them, apart from Estonia, are there in the European Union? Is there a country like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-06_U39	The topic of top-ups or additional support in this form, as we understand it in Estonia, is primarily the subject of the new Member States. And I am telling you quite frankly that even the closest neighbours - I have asked colleagues from both Lithuania and Latvia - have not dared to tell me as of today what they have in the budget for next year and what they do not have there. That's what I've been asking them myself. I can say that the Latvian state has EUR 45 million in top-ups in the state budget this year. However, as far as the budget for next year is concerned, at least the ministers of these two closest countries have not yet told me what their budget for next year will look like. Both countries have very serious problems with defence costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-06_U40	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-06_U41	Thank you. Dear Minister, I would like to clarify because perhaps you, as a member of the government, are not fully aware of, or have been misinformed about, what Parliament is dealing with. If you think we are dealing with national defence and security here, this week the Riigikogu is actually working on the cohabitation law, which is the most important in Estonia. I wanted to look into what you've done to get the top-up in a new situation that has now come to light with the crisis? We know it's never been accounted for before. Was and in what form did you negotiate and what did you do it in? Or were you based on the understanding in the coalition agreement that the increase in child benefits is more important than anything else?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-06_U42	I can send you a date chart of when the Minister of Agriculture, or the Chancellor of the Ministry of Agriculture or the Head of the Budget Department, has visited the Ministry of Finance and what has been the subject of these discussions. I can send you this information. It is clear that putting together the budget, in any area, is the tone of what was agreed in the spring coalition negotiations, there is no doubt about that, you are right about that.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-06_U43	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-06_U44	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Lithuanian purchasers buy almost 1/3 of the milk produced by our farmers. And when the Lithuanian buyer bought one tonne of milk for 400 euros in spring, this price fell to 220 euros in September. In this regard, I have a question. This decline cannot be infinite, where is the bottom line, where farmers still have the advantage of selling milk to Lithuanians?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-06_U45	As far as the profitability of farmers is concerned, according to various analyses, it is 25 to 30 cents per kilogram, which is more or less the cost of milk in Estonia. What goes under 25 cents is made at a loss. As regards the sale of milk to Lithuania, it has been very tempting and very nice to sell to Lithuania. You can imagine that if it was produced with 25 cents and sometimes with 22 cents and at some point even 40 cents a kilo, then that's not bad. However, in this case, the lower price has been only one month, in September. What does this one month show? This shows that when planning trade in Estonia, farmers also need to be very careful and look at which combinations and how to sell. The most stable price of milk is certainly at the level of the processing companies that have an internal market. Because when we go to the store, we see a variety of discounts, but we don't see a drink-milk discount, for example. On the internal market, milk prices are always the most stable, I am not going to say specific prices, but this is certainly much higher than 25 cents now. What goes on to export, be it Lithuanian producers, is a risk. On the other hand, if only products such as powder products or cheese products are produced and export opportunities have also decreased, there are risks. In order for the future of Estonian dairy industry to be secure, we need to look at the internal market in a balanced way, where there is export capacity and how to combine and obtain this price, which would be stable at 35 cents in difficult and light times.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-06_U46	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-06_U47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. I ask about the new markets that you and Minister Anne Sulling have promised Estonian farmers, including milk producers, after the sanctions imposed by Russia. I'm reporting that things aren't going so fast, and in this couple of months, they won't open up any new big markets. But since Minister Sulling has rarely been here to see us, maybe he is doing this job, driving around the world and looking very seriously for new markets. Which countries have been approached, which cooperation partners have you discussed, and which is most likely the first place that an Estonian farmer, an Estonian dairy producer can start selling his milk?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-06_U48	The first is, of course, those who have been very active in communicating with us. These are the so-called partner countries of the customs union who have been active in order to enter into trade relations with Estonia. That's right. But it is also clear that this palette is very diverse. Negotiations have been conducted, for example, with several Asian countries. I already have several meetings planned for this week with the Chinese ambassador, for example. So things move, but they don't go so-called bangs, they take time, stability and peace. We are also looking forward to the future at all, where it may be useful to create a common market for Baltic milk in order to bring together reasonable quantities of products to be traded. When it comes to dairying, cooperation between four countries, Finland, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania is very important, where we will jointly discuss with the European Commission possible crisis measures in border countries. This cooperation has also progressed today and I spent three days in Germany last week, for example. In Germany, at the level of the German Minister and Chancellor, our countries are treated with great goodwill, which has also been reflected in the German Minister's speech. The visit of Prime Minister Stubb last week to Mrs Merkel was certainly very welcome in resolving the dairy situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-06_U49	Thank you, Minister. I'm opening negotiations. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-06_U50	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. As an experienced politician, the minister naturally spoke about the money coming from the European Union and what then the Estonian state will distribute. It is up to this sector to decide whether it is fair or not. However, the point of our question was how much the Estonian state supports our farmers. It is sad to note that neither the Estonian state supports our farmers. We are perhaps the only country in the European Union that is allowed to provide additional support to farmers, but who do not take this opportunity. This is regrettable because I believe that the agricultural sector is one of the most promising industries in Estonia at all. But under the current circumstances, our farmer cannot resist this unfair competition. The European Union, when reforming its agricultural policy to Estonia and other Member States of the European Union, has provided an opportunity to further support farmers from the state budget until 2020 in order to compensate our farmers for the lower level of direct payments from the European Union compared to those from the old Member States, and to prevent unexpected and significant reductions in subsidies. For example, next year Estonia will be able to support farmers with 23 million euros. As you know, the draft state budget does not provide any funding for this. I dare assure you that the Central Party Group will certainly propose additional money for farmers. We'll find the shields. I hope that the Social Democratic Party will support our proposal because it now seems that the political group members from this Riigikogu have left the Minister of Agriculture on his own. For example, this year the Latvian state allocated 40 million euros for direct payments to its farmers, then Estonia had zero on this site. And when we talk about Russian sanctions, the Latvian state has already supported its farmers with more than EUR 10 million this year. Estonia has not supported at all again. How, then, can this sector compete and endure in an open market? I don't understand it, it's completely irrational. We have strong farmers, the sector has evolved. Next year, milk quotas will also disappear in the European Union; the farmer will be prepared for this, but he will have completely unequal conditions. Imagine how Estonia could, for example, play football against nine eleven if the other side has eleven players and Estonia has only nine players on the field. Well, it won't be possible to play for long. It is also saddening that the promised new markets have not yet been opened, even though this has been discussed for a long time and the first messages were very positive. We had to go to Asia and Morocco, and I don't know where else, but there's really no deal agreed on today except for phone numbers. One sad fact that has now come out is that Estonia is transporting 79 million euros of raw milk to Latvia and Lithuania. We've become like a developing country. Raw materials leave the country, while on the basis of this raw material it would be possible to create 500-600 new jobs in Estonia. In addition, if we were to deserve production, all taxes would remain and the state would receive at least a few hundred million additional euros, because it is known that the price of the final product is about one euro. Today, unfortunately, I do not see the government offering a solution to any of these problems. Looks like no one in the government is serious about this. I do not know whether the reason is that the proportion of farmers in our electorate is so small, about 2%, or what is the question. Friends, if we do not support this area of entrepreneurship, which is promising and in which we could be a completely leading country in Europe, then the consequences are sad, there is nothing to do. In any case, we are not satisfied with this and are trying to do our utmost to improve the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-06_U51	The Minister does not want to speak anymore. I will close this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-06_U52	Free mike. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-06_U53	Good listeners, who are you in this hall? I also appeal to all those members of the Riigikogu who are currently perhaps sitting in their rooms. We all know how important the media, the press, plays in our lives. Perhaps the most important moments for members of the Riigikogu are the media's friend or enemy, just before the elections and during the election campaign, but also, of course, during a long period of work in four years, when every word may be used against you or put on the air to praise and highlight you. Yesterday, right behind us, there was a big demonstration at Toompea Castle Square with families, parents, children, grandmothers, grandfathers, etc. It was the most popular demonstration in recent years. In a national broadcasting dispute show, Kalle Muuli said that when this site is crowded, it means that there are very many people. What stood out at that demonstration last night? First of all, we have never organised a demonstration in Estonia, to which the church gives its blessing. In the early minutes of this meeting or mass demonstration, Metropolitan Cornelius turned to the people and blessed their undertaking to preserve the people of this Baltic country. Another interesting point was that all four large churches were represented. Both the Orthodox Churches, both the Church under the Moscow Patriarchate and Constantinople, agreed with the people. Both Metropolitan Cornelius and Metropolitan Stefanus were sympathetic and sympathetic to those who had gathered in this square. The Lutheran Church and the Catholic Church agreed. So it was like a blessed big event, which also very well succeeded, which was beautiful, which was warm, which was family friendly, as the organisers said. Now I come to the question of why I came to this remote control. How did the media reflect this event? I mean mainstream media. Indeed, the master plans were very beautiful. But if you start looking at who they were interviewing, who got into a big plan and who's been listed in the newspapers today, they were old people. Some may not have understood exactly what he said and who he was interviewing. These pictures were taken from a race that people couldn't have looked very good. At the same time, the demonstration had an extraordinary number of young people. There were many families, children, and parents. I wondered when I looked at this company, how so many young people have come out. But we're getting the opposite picture of the media. When we look at today's newspapers, we see that it's the old people who are prepping. This, of course, is not an objective media approach. We're going to pass on a picture in the media that hasn't really been there, and that's very unfortunate. I remember that the same recipe was followed when there were thousands of protesters who protested against the sale of Narva Power Stations and Estonian Railways. I remember the reporters from "Actual Camera" commenting on the emergence of a sub-layer, homeless, etc. Mart Laar called the mass that had come out a lump. A few weeks after the demonstration, this luppen took Mart Laar down as Prime Minister. So be careful, future media, how to reflect public events! Let's show you what's really going on in this field, but let's not create a new artificial image. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-06_U54	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-06_U55	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, A lot has been said recently that Russians living in Estonia need to make another channel for state money so that, after all, objective and adequate information can be obtained. If we are based on this point of view and do not want to discriminate against Estonians, then I think it is also the right time to create an Estonian-language channel that provides objective and adequate information. What are we talking about? There was a rather low one last week, but a rather important event for Europe. Vice-President Joseph Biden of the United States spoke at the Institute of John Kennedy, Harvard University, where he performed in front of students and lecturers. In his speech he spoke about the fact that the European countries did not want to impose these sanctions against Russia, which was adopted some time ago, but on behalf of President Obama of the United States, I am quoting 'the need for Europe to stand up, or straighten its backs, and adopt an economic blow'. At the highest level, then, at Vice-President level, we are informed that Europe did not want these sanctions. It's really so, it's pretty stupid, the benefits of the United States. Europe is expected to lose nearly 40 billion dollars next year, Russia 50 billion, the winner is only one and it is not in Europe. They didn't want to, but as another famous American, Al Capone, once said in the 1920s, a generous word and a pistol can achieve much more than a generous word. The news is very important to all of us. Very important! Turns out our politicians aren't so... Yeah, there's a problem with the choice of words, but you'll probably understand what kind of epithetes I'm considering right now. They're not as demented as they seem. Indeed, once, once, once, another has said that this situation needs to be resolved in a different way. But there is some kind of pressure instrument and it is interesting, it is interesting for the whole of Europe, Europe is looking at it. I saw this performance of Biden on the German channel CDF YouTube, I listened to it in other languages with a translation, his performance verbatim is on the White House website. We don't have that news. I came to work today, tried to talk to one person who deals with international issues here, once to another, and it turns out that there has been no news at all. It must not be said to the people; it is somehow embarrassing to say that an uncle comes across the ocean and makes 28 countries think and act as he wishes. It is necessary to have such an Estonian-language channel so that people can finally know that not only one Red Cross doctor from Switzerland has been killed there in Eastern Ukraine. The United Nations states, in my opinion, that these figures are very modest and have been withdrawn, that 3627 deaths and 8446 wounded have been reported as of 30 September. What has the Estonian media told you about this? On October 1, the school was bombed in Donetsk, the Ukrainian army bombed the school, a teacher, the father of a girl, a guard was killed. In the alley, the mine fell directly into the bus and seven people died. If you do not know this, your media will be lying and timid and we need a new media channel in Estonian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-06_U56	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-06_U57	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, It is very likely that this week, in this Chamber, a bill that has found very broad opposition among the people, among our constituents, will be pushed through by a majority of force and an iron roller. The last cry or cry for help was here yesterday in the first square of the Riigikogu. People had come close and far to appeal once again to their elected representatives for a request not to go against the will of the majority of the people. All of us have received hundreds and hundreds of our e-mails, if not thousands of appeals, which have tried to knock on our consciences not to accept the law that its oppressors call the law of partnership, but which will forever change the principles that our society has held sacred so far. There have been explanatory, prayerful, at times begging, sometimes a little warning. In particular, the appeal of the mothers and fathers of the year to the Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia and the President of the Republic came to my heart. Professor Rein Taagepera was also reminded of the words: "This is the kind of nation that will no longer be found in the next century if he does not come to his senses as a matter of urgency. The Black Plague survived. Red too. But freedom and well-being tend to go too far. I'm not used to it. We have very little time left to repent. ' It is impossible to overestimate the seriousness of this warning. In my opinion, it is becoming the law of this draft that makes it a strong foundation and a cornerstone for Professor Taagepera's prediction to be fulfilled as soon as possible. Next, the quotes of the mother and father conversions. 'We believe that such legal rewriting of the meaning of the family is not correct; no party has asked the people for a mandate, and studies show that the majority of the Estonian people, or the majority of the electorate of any party, do not support such a step. It should be added that there is even less support for such a cohabitation law for the Russian-speaking population. ' Or the following quote: 'We find that we have many more painful issues that need to be resolved and cannot be shunned... ' No one in this Chamber who intends to force this bill into law has told the electorate, a little less than three and a half years ago, that he intends to make such a law against the electorate's will. One might also ask that the voter was not told that by losing the use of specially labelled fuel to get a warm room, the price will be increased four times. Nor did it say that, as of next year, excise duties on gas will be increased by 20% and for so three years in a row that if you do not want to freeze in the cold winter, you will have to save on food. Instead, a slogan was called out to the voter: "Home expenses are down! '. These were the laws of physical torture. This may well be tolerated by man, but the draft under discussion seeks to strike down spiritual values, to destroy spiritually, morally, something far more serious. There is nothing else to suggest but that the voters, follow your ambassador to whom you cast a vote, see how he works. It is well known that in less than half a year most of them will come to ask for your voice again, it is your turn to think and decide which button to press. Because now that he has brought you such a law, when he receives a new mandate, he may adopt a law that obliges everyone to raise and live by the rainbow banner. A little rude, but who knows? No one could wait for this option three years ago either. Either way, there's a point here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-06_U58	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-06_U59	Dear President of the Riigikogu and a fine hall full of people! I don't want to give this speech to you, but it's more for good people who watch TV and watch us on the Internet. To all of them, I want to assure you, I'm a decent person, and I'm used to answering letters. These letters are coming to us quite a lot, and I always read them and say, "Thank you! Viktor. ' But now that every day of God comes to me a hundred letters from the advocates and opponents of the Cohabitation Act, who are more or less as much, these are long letters, there are many fine ideas, I cannot read all of them, and I apologize for leaving them unanswered. I wonder, though, what's all the fuss about? The question of this kind of cohabitation should be interested in 3% of the population, but the entire people of Estonia have been driven mad. In my opinion, okay, register your life together or do not register what's the difference as to why the entire Estonian people should be interested in it. In fact, people have other problems. We have tens of thousands of children living below the poverty line, the Health Insurance Fund is out of money, he's in trouble, it's almost time for people to be unable to pay their pensions, we have small wages and small pensions. There's no light at the end of the tunnel. And now we're going to have a public problem that everyone should be interested in. It seems, yes, that this matter will be accepted in the Riigikogu, despite the fact that the majority of the Estonian people are not in favour of it. But it is neither the first nor the last law to be passed in the manner of Louis XIV, that the wise ruler knows better what the stupid people need. But it really does not make sense for us members of the Riigikogu to write on these issues, because there are only 101 of us who read what you write. Write somewhere else, Delfi, or somewhere else where thousands of people read it. All members of the Riigikogu have their own position, long-established and existing. You don't talk any men or women around this hall. Who has their own personal position, to whom the party has given a position, and if statistics are used, 3%, then three or four people in this Chamber can really have some deep personal interest in the matter. But I ask: who is driving the Estonian people mad? In fact, if this question were hidden away under some big cluster law, it would have gone through the shaht, just like it once did to allow drinking in a public place. Nobody noticed, they shoved a half button, and they did. This cohabitation could have gone exactly the same way. Today, however, there is serious panic among the people, serious opposition. The crowds are on the move, some are waving a flag in rainbow colors, there's no flag on the other side for some reason, I don't know what it's supposed to have, a skull and two chicken bones or. Who created all this? To be honest, I don't have an answer. Maybe Brussels cabbage, maybe international imperialism, maybe illumines. That's not what caused this kind of thing. It's just that 3% of the population couldn't have caused that kind of noise. So someone needs us not to talk about the matter, but about something else. Hence, someone needs the people to argue about the matter. So our people who need bread are offered a circus. Think about it, please! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-06_U60	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Honourable TV viewers! The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 4:27 p.m.
