ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Let's start Tuesday's trial. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. Lauri Laasi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U2	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I will report an inquiry to Foreign Minister Urmas Paet. In February this year, Urmas Paet, together with the Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov, signed an agreement on the location of embassies in Moscow. According to the agreed agreement, Russia will have access to a building complex located at seven addresses in the Old Town of Tallinn and a property of 17,000 square metres in the Pirita district of Tallinn for 99 years. Estonia will only have an embassy building in Moscow and an opportunity to rent 99 years of land under a symbolic building. In this regard, we have raised a number of questions to which we expect answers from the Foreign Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U3	I have accepted an inquiry. If it complies with the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, we will forward it to the addressee. Please, let's do the presence check! Currently 76 members are present and there are no 25 members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U4	Today's first item is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu on 'Construction of the Estonian Parliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Latvia' initiated by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The rapporteur is Mr Vladimir Velman, member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, [[In the diner.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U6	Attention!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U7	No amendments were tabled by the deadline of 19 September at 4 p.m. At the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on 23 September, it was decided by consensus to propose to the Executive Board of the Riigikogu that the draft 720 be placed on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday, 7 October. The Committee on Foreign Affairs proposes that the draft be put to a final vote and adopted as a decision. The draft rapporteur for the Committee on Foreign Affairs at first reading is here the speaker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U8	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. No amendments were tabled and the Commission has proposed to put the draft to a final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu on 'Construction of the Estonian delegation of the Interparliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Latvia' submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Please take a stand and vote. There were 77 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the decision, no respondents or abstentions. The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U9	Agenda item 2 is the first reading of draft bill 704 of the Riigikogu decision "Organisation of a public vote by members of the Riigikogu on the subject of the adoption of the draft Law on Cohabitation (650 SE). The initiators' waitress is Urmas Reinsalu, member of the Riigikogu. Wait, Urmas, wait a minute! [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Or is the buzzing still too big? Honourable Riigikogu, let's honor the waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U10	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Fatherland and Res Publica Association have initiated a draft decision of the Riigikogu, which provides for a referendum on the draft law on partnership pending before the Riigikogu. I have been a member of the Riigikogu for quite a long time. This Riigikogu has made decisions that have provoked conflicting feelings in society. Joining the European Union, joining the European Stability Mechanism, issues that have been linked to the fundamental rights of people, as a result of which people and organisations have approached members of the Riigikogu, with views being both in favour and against. However, it must be acknowledged that this public debate and confrontation that has now arisen in society because of the procedure of the draft law on partnership is unprecedented in our average view of political life. We have all received people's views in writing. At first there were dozens of letters, tens became hundreds, and hundreds became thousands. I have read many of them carefully. These are reflected in the sincere feelings of the people: those who support the law consider it important to guarantee people's rights in society and to shape tolerance and open values, and in the opinion of the opponents of the law it sets standards that are incompatible with their understanding of the traditional values and family of Estonian society. This confrontation, which has arisen and deepened, is not a good confrontation. It is worrying that the law, whose central objective should be to increase tolerance and tolerance in society, has actually caused serious hostility, has created two camps among the Estonian people. This is demonstrated by studies which show that intolerance to same-sex relationships has increased in society and society's willingness to regulate same-sex relationships has diminished. Consequently, the way in which this law is being dealt with in its current form and the problem being raised does not help to achieve tolerance in society. The result is that a confrontation has arisen, which is a serious problem. I believe that everyone in this Chamber shares the opinion that it is very important to look for a common section among the Estonian people, especially in these difficult times of security, that we do not focus on creating a gap in Estonian society. This gap is objectively present; this issue is reduced to a very unambiguous plan. We in this Chamber, members of the Riigikogu, are responsible for seeking and finding solutions to reduce this gap and confrontation, we must not grow it. When we discussed the granting of this draft decision to the Riigikogu proceedings, our reasoning was very clear. I have to admit that the debate that has taken place in the following months has shown that the opportunity we have chosen to offer the Riigikogu could help society to emerge stronger from this debate and to find internal peace in society. At the moment, the situation has arisen that, if the cohabitation law is adopted as it comes to parliamentary proceedings this week, one large part of the people in society feel that the majority of the Riigikogu has acted against these concepts, contrary to how they envisage the organisation of society. It's their feeling. Similarly, if the Riigikogu does not adopt this law, there will be a situation where many people, for whom this law means the recognition of their rights in society at a certain political level, feel that they have been humiliated and their aspirations have been rejected. Consequently, we are in a situation of confrontation, Parliament is rapidly restoring this confrontation with one or the other majority decision, and this confrontation is objective. I believe that there are no members of the Riigikogu in this Chamber who would be of the opinion that we have been discussing issues that have created more feelings in society than this issue. Our proposal is clear and unambiguous. Since this issue concerns a very large number of people to a very large extent, decision-making should be given to the people themselves, so that the citizens of Estonia themselves would say whether they are in favour or against. There is also the possibility of another solution, which is a compromise. I will also make this proposal clearly and openly known from this chair. If the founders of the Cohabitation Act take the view that the procedure of this law does not go ahead before the parliamentary elections at such a fast pace that two readings are in one week, but take the time to have a dialogue in society and look for solutions that join, not divide, then surely this is a sensible way of seeking consensus in society. In that case, if we are prepared to go to this compromise, we are also prepared to withdraw this draft decision of the Riigikogu from the procedure before the final vote. The processing of the Cohabitation Act has highlighted the real problems of family law. They can be dealt with in depth on substantive issues. One very serious issue, which the founders of the Cohabitation Act themselves pointed out, relates to the property rights of people living in a factual partnership. For example, if a man and a woman live together in a house that is in the name of a man, a woman has made a huge contribution to this common property in financial terms, but if these people split up, then the house will remain on the side of the union for whom it is. The issues concerning, above all, the protection of the weaker party in family relations are quite varied. In the spirit of searching for practical solutions, the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union submitted a draft law amending the Family Act to the Riigikogu procedure, which would solve not the problems of registered people but those living in a factual partnership within the framework of the current family law. I deeply regret that the substantive debate about our proposals did not take place, but that the draft was rejected using the power of the majority. The decision whether to put a question to a referendum is not an easy decision. We too discussed this very seriously, considering the pros and cons. We wondered what problems might arise if we put this issue to a referendum as far as possible. It is fair to talk about the speech chair of the Riigikogu about these issues, which have also been expressed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and in the public debate. First of all, is this an important question for the people, is the importance of this problem at such a level that it might deserve the possibility that Estonian citizens will decide on this in a referendum? It is a question of political choice whether we feel it this way or not. Parliament has the right and the opportunity to make a decision according to the Constitution. Looking at social resonance and at the feelings that have been aroused by the swift handling of this issue, we can say that this is an important issue. Secondly, in legal terms, can this issue be put to a referendum if it regulates legal relations, which should not be the subject of a referendum? The answer to this is unambiguous and clear. Firstly, the current constitution allows such a draft to be put to a referendum. Secondly, it is also quite possible to decide on the legal relationships that are regulated by this law in a referendum. The content and impact of this law is wider than a purely civil contract. This concerns the definition of a family, the rights of children and the well-established perceptions of a family throughout society. Thirdly, are the people of Estonia able to make choices in the referendum on this issue? In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, too, a number of politicians opposed the referendum expressed the view that this issue is too complicated; Estonian citizens are unable to make a deliberate and intelligent choice here. It is claimed that there is a conflict of competence between the choice of citizens and the capacity of the legislator to bring this complex problem before people. My clear view is that the citizens of Estonia were able to make their choice when joining the European Union, in the case of a very complex accession agreement, they were also able to make a choice about the Estonian Constitution, which concerned dozens and dozens of questions, and they are certainly able to take a stand on this matter. Would that be a precedent? Has this been done in other European countries? Yes, it is. In December 2013, Croatia held a referendum on a draft supporting the definition of marriage as an alliance between men and women. In 2012, Slovenia had a draft concerning a similar range of topics in a referendum. Ireland is planning a referendum in the spring of next year on this range of topics. We must seriously think that the result of the debate on the Cohabitation Act is not such that people of different nationalities, different backgrounds, different perceptions, begin to alienate society, and there is a very deep gap that starts to feed intolerance, the notion that the country that makes these decisions is not quite its own and correct. The Estonian state faces difficult times, as I said, in many ways. Our task here is to jointly seek a solution that would unite the Estonian people, not to oppose them. The prerequisite for these discussions is that, when I handed over this bill, I called on it to have a respectful debate, respectful of all people's fundamental rights and not a tagging debate, both in this law and in the whole range of questions. A debate that does not point evil at a person because of his private life and family choices or label a person for his religious views or his understanding of Estonian society. We are looking for a solution that integrates society, not a solution that rips society apart. The referendum is a serious step and we feel our full responsibility in making this proposal. As regards both the material and the technical issues of the referendum, our proposal is that the referendum be held on the day of the Riigikogu elections. Then all costs and technical logistics would be essentially interconnected, so the money to be put to the referendum would not be significant in isolation. But I'm coming back to the beginning. The referendum is our solution to the problem of how to avoid the very bad situation that could arise. There is also a compromise opportunity to which I call upon the initiators of this law. If, in the process of dealing with the law, a calm time is taken to try to find consensus in society, if this desire is expressed unambiguously and we reach this agreement, then, as I said, the Fatherland and Res Publica Union are prepared to withdraw this draft decision. Let's take a break. On these issues, the issues we are currently discussing and which matter to a very large number of people in Estonia, society has not held a debate before the elections. Before the elections, questions that are important to politicians and which are important to people will be discussed. If we interrupt this dialogue or connection for any noble or rational purpose, then, believe me, it will not make our country more coherent. These choices are in our hands. These are not easy choices for anyone, no matter what the view of this question is. But I stress that this is a subject that matters to people. This is a subject on which people want to express their views. However, this is a matter where inclusion and hearing people's views have actually been lacking. This question must not be defined in black and white: whether you are a tolerant person or not. There are a lot of different shades, political and conceptual, understanding of how best to guarantee children's rights, how best to protect people's fundamental rights. Looking for a solution must not tear society apart. Power and maturity in our decision-making! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U11	Questions for the waitress. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, To the Centre Party, it has always been important to ask the people for an opinion, whether it is to collect signatures against the failure of Narva Power Plants, to try to regularise the President's direct elections, or to ask for a referendum when the euro is introduced. There have been more. You said that you have been in Parliament for a long time and that there have been many discussions over this period of time on important questions about which to ask the people's opinion. On several issues, we have received many letters from voters, for example, on joining the European Stability Mechanism. The Centre Party also asked for a referendum on this issue. IRL didn't come up with that at the time. Is it a two-faced policy that when you are in opposition, you care about the opinion of the people and demand referendums, but if you are in power, you do not care about the opinion of the people, as happened with the sale of Narva Power Plants and also with the introduction of the euro?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U13	Thank you. As far as the Cohabitation Act is concerned, it is right that this initiative has become a law in a political situation where the Fatherland and Res Publica Union are in opposition. I referred to other issues that have led to conflicting opinions in society, certainly also to the decisions of the Riigikogu on which there has been public criticism. It must be said frankly, as I said at the beginning of my speech, that the public resonance on the subject currently being discussed is an order of magnitude, if not two orders of magnitude. There is no denying that. Speaking of referendums as a universal way of managing the state, I will say once again that this was the place for a serious debate. The referendum in representative democracy is not a normal instrument for resolving current policy issues. Our model of representative democracy is structured in such a way that the abuse of referendums can have negative consequences, not in terms of the development of society as a whole. However, there is this opportunity for a referendum. The question is, in fact, whether this is such an important issue of constitutional law, which means changes in the Estonian regime, for which a mandate for the entire citizen's community is required. This type of question has been put to a referendum in Estonia. There is a second round of questions to be put to the referendum; my understanding is that there is also a question to be discussed today. In the case of a very strong confrontation, in order for society to find a solution and be able to move forward stronger, one part of society must not be left with the view that they have been driven by representative democracy. This is the path that the referendum gives us. In my opinion, this is in some respects a poor parallel, but in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the opponents of the referendum brought the Scottish referendum as an example. I think the same question is here. If people themselves have held the debate and shaped their position, then, believe me, the fear that citizens will make unconsidered or bad decisions and society will be divided is unfounded. It was also a prerequisite for our starting point that society is able to hold this debate and politicians must take responsibility, whether they are in favour of this law or against it, for explaining this issue to the people. In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, however, criticism was made so that a referendum could not be held because there is too little time, but time is needed to explain this issue to the people, but time has not been given to us. My answer to that is as follows. The initiators have also referred to certain rules in family law concerning 170000 people who would or should at least accept them. I think that one of the best ways for society to integrate these values and to adopt them in a favourable position or, in the case of a negative position, to reconsider how to solve these problems is when people themselves have been able to interpret this issue and make their choice. If the question was whether a referendum is, in my opinion, an extraordinary step, yes, it is an extraordinary step. We did not take it lightly and, as I emphasised, we are offering a compromise before the final vote on how we can move forward together.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U14	Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U15	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your balanced and very respectful speech. I am pleased that you referred to the real problem that is now, i.e. the protection of the rights of the weaker party in the event of the end of a factual partnership. I regret that our country was not so mature that it would in essence have further discussed our proposal on how to offer the weaker party the protection of the law in the event of the end of a factual partnership. If people have not so far entered into contractual relations, then there is reason to believe that the law on partnership may not be used so rapidly that everyone legalizes their partnership. Are you optimistic that, for example, the next Riigikogu would be able to deal with this real problem in essence?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U16	Thank you. That's what I want to hope for. But the starting point for this hope should be that it is not a matter of black and white political confrontation, but that people have their own ideas on this subject, they can be in favour of and against this law. As long as these concepts do not conflict with the fundamental values of our constitution, no one has the right to humiliate or offend people and to label their opinions as false or correct. As long as we are not all prepared to take one step back to look for the common ground, I fear that the real problems tend to remain out of focus. Because, look, life and society are changing. As far as the factual family relationship is concerned, we must base ourselves on reality and take regulatory steps, first and foremost, to protect children and the weaker side of living together. We proposed our solution, and I regret that it was not the courage to start a substantive debate, but limited to politically tagging arguments. I didn't dare because it was more comfortable. Building up confrontation may be more politically useful or comfortable for someone, but believe me, friends, we are playing with the very important common values of society right now. Let us not play with fire, but look for solutions that bind society, which respect all members of this society, so that society can say that it has taken a step towards its internal strengthening, not to become more fragile.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U17	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U18	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! What form of democracy is it now? As we know, there was no law on cohabitation among the electoral promises of any political party. Secondly, according to the polls, two-thirds of the people are against this law. Thirdly, this law can be passed by a minority of the Riigikogu, because there are no 51 votes required.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U19	It is a form of representative democracy. The question is, if there is a political majority, a relative majority force, who has the votes to push a decision through, then you always have to ask further questions about the legitimacy. On Sunday, I think in a radio broadcast about the state of affairs in the country, Kalle Muuli drew a parallel to the ACTA case. At that time, these people sensed that their opinions would not be heard, or run over, by any means. I do not know how much the nuances of Internet law played there; rather, it was important that people had the feeling that their position was not important or that their attitude was strongly contradicted. Parliament is not just a machine for making laws by mechanical means; Parliament is also a place where we try to reconcile the various opinions and views that exist in society, not to unravel what has been agreed. As far as the legislative culture of the Riigikogu is concerned, I must admit that it is really rather unprecedented that the two readings of this bill take place in one week. We have said in Parliament ourselves that this is not a good legislative culture, but this is what we are doing now. We have also said that a good legislative culture is not a matter of substantive changes to the draft law, but a second reading is not interrupted. However, this is also the way we are going to do it, and reading this bill will not be interrupted. We have also said that, in the case of good lawmaking, it is completely unprecedented if there is no part of the law that applies. Now, however, we are going to adopt a framework law and say that the way in which this right is carried out remains, in political terms, for future generations to be resolved. If Parliament were to regulate any technical issue in this way, we would also receive a formally justified criticism that this is poor legislative practice. There is a double concern that all this is happening on such a large subject of public resonance.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U20	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U21	Dear waitress, You repeatedly spoke of the fact that this bill divides society. Your proposal, which we are discussing now, would amplify this gap every day until 1 March. You said that, after the referendum, society would move forward more strongly. How do you imagine that? After all, the referendum also results in a majority and a minority, one side is in the majority, the other side is in the minority. I wonder what your message would be to the minority side of society in the referendum so that the gap that you have spoken about could be overcome.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U22	Thank you. It's the exact same problem. There are no "golden" solutions in this confrontation, in which society is placed in a very short time. Six months ago, there's no way I could have imagined this type of confrontation, opposite labelling. Would anyone here have imagined it? No, you wouldn't. I am humanly sorry that, now that we are talking about our goal of tolerance and the establishment of open values, I see that the attitudes of society are being shaped in a polarising direction, quite the opposite. It's no joke. The honourable questioner wanted to know my message to the minority. The exact same problem for the minority and the majority is, in fact, in the process of dealing with this bill. We offer solutions with this draft Riigikogu decision. If citizens can give their opinion and politicians are responsible for fulfilling their informative role, which I believe they have done poorly so far, then citizens will also accept this result in society. If this draft was not dealt with so quickly, would the IRL Group have initiated this draft decision to put the referendum on, as if we were obsessed that this issue must go to the referendum and become one of the issues that is still inevitably in the public discourse room prior to the elections of the Riigikogu? Of course not. That is why I am repeating this compromise once again: we are taking time off. Similarly, our message on the issue of the referendum is that, in this case, we are quite prepared to withdraw this draft decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U23	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U24	You complained about two readings going on the same week. This crossing isn't news. As we know, in the case of the ESM, the Euro-enthusiastic majority of us, the minority, travelled in over 50 minutes between the second and third readings. So by getting beat up like this, I'm pretty much used to it. Now it's different. Somewhere there's an official who's written this law. Without reporting to himself, this person bears responsibility to the Estonian people for creating a paper that potentially broke up the Estonian people. Parliament, too, is clearly broken up. My question rightly repeats Jaak's. Doesn't it seem to you that the longer we wait on this thing, the more people out on the streets are divided into two camps, the greater will be intolerance, because inevitably there will be a campaign, etc.? Isn't that a threat? My idea is to get it. Well, I can't say it here! From the neck as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U25	I think it's a one-day host's mentality. I'm sorry, Igor!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U26	Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U27	Thank you very much. Dear Urmas Reinsalu! Despite all the respect for your policy, I am still forced to say that this 'compromise' of the referendum is not a compromise, but a Pharisee. You talked a lot about people's feelings. But it seems to me that your political career is based not on feelings but on reason. I'm gonna ask you straight. In the 21st century, 2,000 years after Christ, what does your mind say to you about the adoption of the Cohabitation Act as the leader of a party in a Member State of the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U28	My message is one and clear. The fundamental rights of people must be protected in Estonia; in Estonia, family issues must be defined in such a way that it does not conflict with the general sense of law of society in relation to their legal relationships. All specific legal relationships can be clearly regulated within the framework of current family law. I am sad that in the current political debate, this question is reduced simply to being in favour or against and that is all. It is said that this has been done in other countries. We have already developed this euphemism, that is, the regulation of male and female cohabitation, as we now wish to make fast-track provision for this partnership, which should cover a large part of the population, as the draft authors have said, in four of the 28 other Member States of the European Union. It's a reality. Questions concerning society, family, individual rights, including morals, are not easy for any society in Europe. In the countries where these matters are handled, politicians, I think, are rightfully trying to find a common ground and bring society with them into these choices. The steps we see in European countries, where the constitution has started to provide for matrimonial guarantees and marriage clauses, have also given rise to some attitudes in European Union countries. Imagine that we could deal with these issues quickly, as Mr Gräzin's solution was, that no matter how we do it, as long as we do it, I do not think it is reasonable or mature to have solutions for social life. Family law, as well as penal law and state law, are types of law that require a broader social understanding in society. This was taught by my good teachers at the Faculty of Law at the University of Tartu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U29	Cameron Maruse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U30	Good talker! In your convincing form, but demagogic content, you put words in your mouth that weren't spoken in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. That was a comment. You said society was deeply divided. How would a referendum bridge this gap, how would it make it smaller or even nonexistent? Is this a way of ensuring equal treatment of people, the protection of everyone's right to the law, and that no one is discriminated against on the basis of his or her gender, etc.? These are our constitutional principles. Would a referendum ensure that these principles are respected and implemented?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U31	Thank you. First of all, as far as the protection of people's fundamental rights are concerned, when I discuss this issue, I am going to become a co-rapporteur of the partnership law. However, the legal relationships that are currently written in the text of the Cohabitation Act are not subjective fundamental rights which are granted on the basis of the principle of universal equality. This is a very clear legal understanding. This is a political choice before society, which we are embracing within the framework of our legislation. Subjective fundamental rights must be guaranteed to people. It is self-evident in the rule of law, in the Constitutional state. The responsibility to choose the way in which we develop and incorporate these rights lies with the Riigikogu. We are now talking about whether to put this issue to a referendum. A choice has been put before society, but in fact, the debate, the input, the room for discussion, I see, is not enough. In such a case, if this question is already a matter of choice, whether or not it is brought before Parliament, can these issues be resolved in a reasonable way? I think, yes, if this question has already been made a yes/no choice, then that is the poor choice that we have in front of us right now. Clearly, I'm joining your attitude. We rejected most of the law, which, as I said, the weaker party in fact and the protection of children by force a few weeks ago. This is also not a narrow issue . I also say that I am not going behind the label of fundamental rights from the subjective fundamental rights defined. It is a question of how, according to the family protection section, the family is protected by the Constitution. But let us not use legal and constitutional arguments where society faces a political choice.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U32	Thank you. Please, Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U33	Thank you. I have two questions. First of all, do I understand correctly that the Chancellor of Justice's opinion that the current situation is in conflict with the Constitution is, in your opinion, wrong, or the Chancellor of Justice is wrong, and you have a different interpretation of it, which is significantly different from the interpretation of the Chancellor of Justice? The second question, do you think it is too early to legitimise the cohabitation law in this form in Estonian society?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U34	Thank you. The Chancellor of Justice has taken the view that the definition of partnerships is a matter of political determination in which the Chancellor of Justice cannot intervene. He has unequivocally said that this is a political issue. Indrek Saar laughs at this because I was speaking from the point of view of Chancellor Allar Jõks. One Chancellor of Justice has specifically said that this is a political issue and that 'different treatment' is entirely legitimate under the Constitution, while the other Chancellor of Justice has taken a different view of its legal concept. So there are two options on the menu right now. If the question is whether one Chancellor of Justice's position is wrong and the other Chancellor of Justice's position is correct, then it must be said that there are different views in legal and legal matters. Otherwise, there would be no point in legal interpretation or justice; it could be done by a computer. You came back to whether you did or didn't when you talked about the law of cohabitation. You used exactly the form of a referendum. I think that, in its current form, the Cohabitation Act does not fulfil the objectives that its initiators think they have set themselves on this law or on which they have claimed to society that these are the objectives of that law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U35	Thank you. Please, Tiina Lock-Tramberg!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U36	Thank you. First of all, thank you to the waitress for a very long and thorough speech. But I want to start by saying that yesterday, when I spoke to the PÖFF youth team and my children, I said in commenting on the situation that I am proud that Estonia, as the first former socialist republic, is discussing these issues at all; others do not even dare to do so. This, too, is a major social step forward. On the other hand, listening to your speech, I had a strong desire to quote, to paraphrase Seneca, the old Stoik: listen to my words, but don't look at my actions. After all, the IRL, by handing Varro Vooglaiu's movement, has consistently encouraged all this movement and the current situation. He's been behind it, and its apotheosis was...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U37	Question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U38	Now! ... Sunday's big meeting here, where the Russians were actually brought by buses across Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U39	Tiina, question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U40	Now! Why has Varro Vooglai not so far rejected the argument about the sources of funding for this movement? The Russians were known to be accused of this.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U41	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U42	Right. I think this is the debate, the honorable questioner that divides society. If we do not talk about what unites us, we do not talk about a problem or values that members of society understand differently, but we say that those who express their mind to defend one view are more inferior, and another attitude is more correct, it is a dangerous way of thinking, it is not an open way of thinking. There are different views in society on this issue, and my message is that it should be accepted. We are now trying to deny it and label one view or another, as if one view were right and the other view was inferior and wrong. We believe that this is the way in which this problem, as Mr Gräzin wanted, can be resolved quickly and moved forward. This is not a solution. Likely, those who repent will give their explanations and answers as to how they shape their views and whether they are in favour or against them. But they have to ask that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U43	Thank you. Please, Barbi Pilvre!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U44	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, You claimed that the law of partnership splits society. The Cohabitation Act would give equal rights to others, among other things, to a minority group whose members, according to different figures in society, are 4,10%, and at the same time do not take anything away from others. Isn't this a law that integrates society? These are our Estonian people. Why do you say otherwise?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U45	This is a political argument, and I will respond to it in exactly the same way politically. If you want to give equal rights to all people, why don't we have a law on the table that is very clearly and unambiguously legalizing same-sex marriages in Estonia? The reasons why this has not been done are very simple. This would conflict with public opinion and the general understanding of society as to what marriage should be like. Consequently, the authors and initiators of this draft are based on the fact that same-sex couples have different rights in Estonia. If you want to make this thing black and white, then you are not in a pretty white position, however, in your view, you have made some political compromises. I say this is the place of political choice.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U46	Thank you. Please, Priit Onion!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U47	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I'm a little surprised that some of my colleagues have had a problem that goes on. It's like we might be able to put it in a bag this week. But do I get it right that we are actually dealing here with the framework law and implementing provisions that are necessary for this law to become effective on 1 January 2016, there is still a lot of work to be done in this and the next Riigikogu? Maybe you'll disprove the problem that this week might as well end something.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U48	Thank you. Indeed, in order to avoid the need for a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu to adopt this law, a large part of the provisions on legal proceedings and implementing provisions have been separated from the draft so that the law can be adopted by majority votes. The requirement for a majority would apply to this draft if there were certain provisions on judicial proceedings and the registration procedure. This means that what it will look like in practice will only be discussed and determined in the future. We are defining a political objective in some ways today. How these specific legal relationships are actually embodied will, once again, be decided in the future. So there is hope that, if these questions are taken off the agenda quickly, society will either calm down or focus on other issues. The fact is that it makes society stronger if we look openly at these choices and look for a common part rather than looking for the opposite part and saying that there is only yes or no, the right opinion and the wrong opinion. It is a majority model that does not work in today's society with very different opinions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U49	Thank you. Please, Maimu Berg!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U50	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U51	Thank you. Good waitress! In my opinion, it is a question of a mandate that we are still empowered to discuss today. Parliamentary elections will take place in less than five months. Would it not be fair for parliamentary parties who support this draft to be the initiators and supporters of this law to sign up to this principle in their electoral programme? If they get a mandate from the people for this, I don't have much of a problem. Would that soothe our society?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U52	Thank you. I think the political logic is, in general, that important or high-weight issues that create a social debate are currently being discussed, but there have been other such topics in Estonia, they are trying not to decide just before the elections, but they will remain in the post-election period. Before the elections, it is time to have a dialogue with society and get feedback so that we can make these choices. The problem, of course, is also what several questioners have pointed out that, unfortunately, this feedback was lacking in previous elections. It is possible that in the programme of some parties there were some provisions to that effect, Eiki Nestor nodded with his head that it was, I suppose it was, I always believe Eikit was, but in fact, this was not the subject that society would have understood or provided feedback on.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U53	Thank you. Please, Thomas Tõniste!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U54	Thank you, good manager. Good colleague! Do you think it's worth deploring how many pensioners, family mothers, family fathers and single parents have donated so that they don't take away a large part of the Estonia where they want to live and what corresponds to their perceptions? Do you think that's a problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U55	Thank you. The question is probably driven by the problem of Tiina Loki, where the instruments of the anti-cohabitation campaign come from. The question was that people themselves have supported this campaign, but whether they are justified in doing so and expressing their position. I think that the starting point for democracy must be that we respect other opinions and recognise the common values which the Constitution lays down as the framework values of Estonian society: the rule of law, democracy, nation state, social state. As long as this debate is based on it, in a democratic country there are no lies and the right ideas, but people have different concepts, just as they feel. These opinions can be tagged, and in the political struggle, or in any debate, this is often done, but if there is such a serious confrontation, the principle that we must look for a common part, rather than one that deepens the confrontation, applies twice.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U56	Thank you. Please, Siim Kisler!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U57	Thank you. Good waitress! You made a pretty serious proposal during your presentation. You offered to the other political groups that if the cohabitation law is not passed this week, but the second reading is interrupted, then we will be taking a time-out on the draft referendum. How do you think we're gonna do that? Would it be wise to take a break before the vote so that it can be discussed between the chairmen of the political groups so that this compromise really happens?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U58	Thank you. I think that's a reasonable idea. I would suggest that the President of the sitting take a break after the round of speeches so that the representatives of the political groups of the Riigikogu can discuss our compromise proposal before the final vote. My proposal is for the President to take a break from the President and the representatives of the political groups to be able to discuss this issue. I think we need to find a common ground. The representatives of all the political groups could take the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U59	Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U60	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I come back to the work of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. When the draft law on partnership was discussed in the referendum, what was the main focus? If we know that only four European countries have an analogous cohabitation law under which couples of different sexes can register a partnership, what was the main focus? Should a referendum be held on the possibility that couples of different sexes will also have such an opportunity through the Cohabitation Act, or only that this opportunity will be open to couples of the same sex?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U61	If this debate has not added anything else to Estonian society, then at least we now have new words that we have taken into normal use. We agreed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that we would not discuss the substantive nuances of the Cohabitation Act, because the Committee on Legal Affairs has already discussed them in substance. We will focus on the stance on the question of whether this issue needs to be put to a referendum and whether it is at all a question that can be put to a referendum. There have also been opinions that the existing constitution or understanding of fundamental rights would not allow it. No, our common understanding was that it could be put to a referendum, that is the question of political will expressed by Parliament with its majority vote. Those aspects of the Cohabitation Act were under discussion in the sense that this bill regulates various legal relationships, but we are now seeing that this debate is actually whether you are in favour or against. To this level of yes/no, this debate has gone on in this Parliament as well. We don't normally ask, for example, if you're in favour of or against the Law of Obligations Act. The fact is that if our compromise proposal is not accepted and a referendum should come, I would remind you that politicians should also have certain good practices that we would agree on jointly: we will avoid personal attacks, labelling, understatement of differences of opinion and respect for fundamental human rights. These values could be jointly agreed. Members of the Riigikogu and all political forces also have a duty to inform society. At present, this commitment has not been sufficiently fulfilled.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U62	Thank you. Please, Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U63	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! My question is motivated by the question of my colleague, Peter Võsa. In order to ensure that the verbatim record was not false, I have been invited to come as an alternate member of the Committee on Legal Affairs because I had been authorised by the group. At that point, I didn't even know who I was going to replace. It is a standard practice in the Riigikogu to go to a committee meeting as an alternate. After that, it became clear, as the committee chairman admitted, that this was an accident at work for officials, that the committee meeting was repealed and a new meeting was held. You know the Rules of Procedure very well. Is it even possible that a member of the Riigikogu can invade a meeting of a committee and vote there? As far as I know, that's not possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U64	I have not been prevented in this Riigikogu. I've invaded where I thought I'd be good to protect my understanding and my values. But I think your explanation has been taken into account. I'm asking you to put it in the record! [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U65	Please, Rannar Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U66	Thank you. I also think that this is a subject where we certainly cannot review values in any way, so also value space, as Barbi Pilvre referred to in its question. That is why I have a question. Can you name a country where same-sex cohabitation is not regulated, but whose social organisation or society in general could set an example for Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U67	Thank you. We cannot argue that all matters of same-sex cohabitation, civil law and family law are currently out of court. They've been regulated. The question is, as I understand it, that the initiators believe that they have been regulated in a way that is not sufficient or complete. I come back to the fact that there are those who want to show this debate in black and white. There are many European countries where issues of same-sex rights are regulated much more widely. My question is that if people with a skeptical attitude to this draft are being tagged, can I say then that the people who have submitted this draft are intolerant, because they have not considered it reasonable to give the same-sex people the full range of rights that very many European countries have granted. Countries, citizens and representatives of the people will decide these matters in the way these societies see fit. That is the idea of the sovereignty of the people. Copy and paste are not the central solution here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U68	Thank you. Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U69	Thank you. Dear waitress, My question is driven by Igor Gräzin's earlier question and concerns the referendum. I'm sorry I'm not bringing in a legally correct analogy, but I think it's actually correct. What is your opinion: should the Scots have recently abandoned their referendum because society was divided and there were very sharp differences of opinion? The problem could have been solved quickly and with the tension off in such a way that Parliament would have taken a decision by a simple majority. Would that have essentially solved some Scottish problems?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U70	Thank you. The Scottish question is completely different. I myself did not mention this in the debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. But I remember someone pointing it out, I don't remember exactly who. Väino Linde can be specified later. The Scottish question makes sense to answer yes or no. This question is completely different. I think that there is an important element in the logic of all referendums. The referendums can be divided into two. Some deal with key constitutional issues for which a mandate is needed. In that case, we are talking about some change in constitutional order or something like that. Other issues provide solutions for society to find common ground or explain society's opinion in a way that makes society more coherent. The question is not that there is little competence in the Riigikogu and we cannot make a decision or press the 'Pool' or 'Repair' button. Yes, we can. The question is not that we need anything more to decide. The question is how society would be stronger rather than divided. I think that, in the case of the Scottish question, both logics coincided, both the social significance of the matter for the people and the very important, indeterminate-weight constitutional choice that was before the Scots. But I also believe that the British Government was very rational and participated in this debate. The choice was not to ignore this question. An open society sees as a solution to these issues, I would say so, still that we also dare, in the case of things that seem uncomfortable, to face society and discuss these issues and to draw people along and convince them, to explain things to people. Believe me, it's not a weakness of society. The Igor Gräzin doctrine does not make society stronger, that we do it, that what happens then happens, and we move on quickly. Where to next?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U71	Thank you. Please, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U72	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! I am perhaps in the most difficult position of the members of the Riigikogu in this Chamber, because I wanted to create a debate by initiating this draft. Life has changed, people's opinions have come out very clearly. Now I have a very difficult ethical crisis whose opinion I should take more account of as a member of the Riigikogu, either the opinion of the majority who is inclined to oppose this law or the opinion of a minority who is in favour of this law. How, for example, should a member of the Riigikogu like me emerge from this crisis? Would it be possible, however, to dispel this dispute now, to go on with this law for a little longer and to practice the reasonableness of this law in society in that time? In fact, no one denies that these people also have certain rights. How do you behave?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U73	I hope that the President will propose this. I think that's a serious question. This call is for everyone to be prepared to take a step backwards and look for a common ground. Believe me, I have closely followed the views of people against the Law on Partnerships and I have very seriously read the views of those who have expressed their support for this law in their sensitive letters. We need to understand in this House that this is not a mass of any kind, it is the living people who care about it. These people have their own feelings, their own understanding of how this thing is right or how it can't be. I believe that the most important thing for us now is to try to give this genuine signal in Parliament that we do not ignore society and the feelings that prevail there. Whether the feelings are right or wrong, I am sure that everyone in this Chamber will have an understanding of this, I believe. It is a matter of value that could be right and wrong. But it's because it's about itself that it depends on how people decorate values and imagine things. In society, it is unwise to deny anything simply. The easiest thing to do is to'remove' Parliament's responsibility towards society even with regard to different attitudes and simply turn it into a machine for lawmaking. It's the easiest and most comfortable way. As Mr. Gräzin said, no matter what happens, no matter what happens, he gets his neck blown off! I think this is not a path that is sustainable in Estonian society.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U74	Thank you. Please, Imre Sooäär, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U75	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! For the sake of the report, I say that officials of any of the Riigikogu committees cannot and may not register an alternate for the meeting of the committee unless an alternate can be appointed to that member of the committee. This error was discovered a few hours later by the same members of the Commission and corrected. That's it. But I'm asking for the future and for your presentation. You've always mentioned one keyword, it's the strength of society. Do you think it will make society stronger if there is a systematic distribution of a lie about a draft, there are articles that are not included at all? Sunday showed us that many people have a completely different idea of this bill and are not familiar with what it actually says.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U76	Thank you. Look, that's what I was pointing out. That is our role and responsibility. There must also be a road or a way to hold this debate in society. From both the proponents and the opponents of the bill, I have heard arguments that show that they attribute things to this bill that are not there. It is clear that this law is likely to be hit by the fate that most of our work and production, that the vast majority of people have not read it from cover to cover, but have shaped their position on the subject. The question now is what is the best way to link society. My opinion is that we will not escape public debate, debate, consensus and compromise if we want to make society stronger. The majority method of decision is not the most sensible way. I gave an example of ACTA. Then there was a whole other argument, a whole other people protested, and a completely different emotion had begun, but people felt that they were being run over and that their opinion did not pay. There were those who attributed things to this international agreement that were not there, and there were those who spoke of the right things. I think there have also been many lessons in issues of magnitude, or even two orders of magnitude, less social resonance.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U77	Please, Priit Tobal, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U78	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Following the accession of my colleague Aivar Riisalu to the IRL Group, there is a situation in Parliament where the initiators of the draft law are in all four groups. This certainly means moving Parliament towards consensus. You asked the President to take a break to discuss the matter again. Today your party's vice-president, your deputy Eerik-Niles Kross, has announced that he is supporting this bill, I mean the draft Cohabitation Act, in addition to supporting this bill, Yoko Alender, a member of the Tallinn Council, and your star candidate in the elections from Anvar Samo. Perhaps it would be wise to take a moment inside the party, inside the IRL, to discuss the matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U79	Thank you. I think that on a subject such as this sensitive subject, there are different perceptions and different attitudes in the stairwells of apartment buildings, political parties, non-profit organisations. I think that the most formula way would be to ignore people's opinions or to say that people should not have these opinions. On the contrary, I think it is the strength of society when we have different opinions and people have expressed the attitudes they consider right. The question is how it has happened that, in this six months, we have come to a situation where intolerance in society has not decreased as a result of this procedure, but has increased. There's some trouble here, guys. Something's not right about this right now. We are doing something that is not quite what the authors of this draft have, in my opinion, set the goal. Let's take a break, find a path that binds and strengthens society, not divides it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U80	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U81	Thank you. Good colleague! I'd like to know what you think. What are our colleagues afraid of who are not in favour of a referendum?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U82	I think there are a number of arguments against the referendum. One political argument is certainly that this draft may not receive support in the referendum. The argument is certainly that several critics consider that this is not a matter of such significance that could be the subject of a referendum. The argument is certainly also that this issue could put some other seal on the elections, as for the first time a referendum would be held during the national elections. It is feared that this could somehow over-dimensionally overshadow other debates. I think that there are many topics that require a mandate from the Estonian people in the Riigikogu elections. This, too, is certainly a serious point of consideration; we discussed this very thoroughly when we tabled this draft. Believe me, we realized that making a referendum at a time like this, and in this way, is not the ideal solution in a situation that has developed. But our logic was that the possibility of dialogue and consensus should be given to society. The more sensible way is that we go to this compromise, take time off, and the IRL withdraws the draft decision on the referendum. It is then possible to hold a peaceful debate in society before the elections, to explain the nature of the problems to the people, to obtain a mandate from the people and to make these decisions in a spirit of consensus after the elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U83	Please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U84	Good manager! Good Urmas! In three and a half years, I don't think any bill in this hall has caused so much debate. When I look at my e-mail box, I see hundreds and hundreds of letters there that a few of us want to answer or read. How should people still be shown and explained about the drafts that have divided the two camps of the people, which have both proponents and opponents? In this Chamber, it has been said on several occasions today that very many have not read this bill properly, and there are also debates on issues that are not really in the draft. A referendum is one way of solving the problem. Is there any other way to take time off and explain it to the people?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U85	Thank you. I think there are opportunities. Once again, we are not obsessed that this issue must be put to a referendum. It is certainly quite possible when the representatives of all the political groups gather and we take time off, to discuss these opportunities. We do not send a signal to society that we are doing the thing over the top that matters to a lot of people, and people feel that their values are not taken into account, no matter what the factual circumstances on which people have formed one or the other position are. I think this is where, in the spirit of consensus, these opportunities should be sought. The possibilities of debating democracy are not desired, whatever the motives, to be used in the process of dealing with the bill, but I call on you to think about that as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U86	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U87	Thank you, Madam President. Urmas! We've known you for over ten years, and we've listened to each other a hundred times in this hall. I have to admit, I had a tear in my eye today when I was listening to this conversation. I quite admire you and the lexicon that sounds here: social solidarity, tolerance, place under the sun, community coherence, etc. There is a question of where all these terms will go when we are talking about, for example, another minority, a national minority, when we are talking about Russian gymnasium. Why, then, are you not so noble, tolerant, and solidarity? Why, if one third of society simply wants their children to have an education, for example, you are not talking about having a place for everyone?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U88	Thank you. Mikhail, you're a very smart man too. You spoke about the need for everyone to have a place under the sun and discussed the partial transition to the Estonian language of study in upper secondary schools. Believe me, this process is based precisely on this logic, so that these young people can have a normal education, they can learn later, they can find a job, they can be full in Estonian society, they can find their place under the sun, they can exercise themselves according to their talents and abilities, so that there are no barriers that the education system is currently objectively putting in place for them. During the crisis, we saw that unemployment was very clearly linked to both the level of education and language skills. These are the facts that we must take into account. The second question concerns certain basic values. When discussing values in a broader context, looking at your proposals and actions in changing the right to citizenship, we must, in my opinion, bear in mind the constitutional structure of Estonian society, we cannot support initiatives that are carried out by someone's daily political motives and which do not serve the interests of Estonian society as a whole. I am seeing a very vile trend right now, which also concerns the right to citizenship. Citizenship law is intended to be given a'social law' or a certain humanitarian dimension. I am, unfortunately, also thinking of the latest initiatives that have been made here. I think it's a very dangerous trend if we're even going to use terms that really aren't exactly where it's thought to be. There are certain values and principles on the basis of which we must organise society. The easy questioning of these values is also a problem. But I would like to say that the discourse in this debate has also been such that attempts have been made to oppose demographic groups in society, with older people as well as ethnic minorities, especially the Russians. Here I call on those politicians who are talking about integration and social integration and integration to think that we are not taking steps now, at a very difficult time, the results of which may be something that no one wants. Involving and informing society is important for people who live in the Estonian media area, but this is twice as important for those who are away from it in a way or another, but who live in Estonian society. We cannot completely ignore these people in this debate. This, too, is the responsibility we have.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U89	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Reinsalu! You have analysed this subject with concern and heartache, with legal hooks, demagoguery and without it. My question is simple, it has been touched on by many who have expressed their views on this law. Do you think that this law, when it applies, will in any way harm the Estonian family? If you think that's the case, please tell me why!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U90	Thank you. Society is based on values. These values are furnished by this society itself, furnished by all the members of society who participate in this society. If a large part of society is a majority or a minority, then it senses that the values on which society is built are being damaged, then there is a clear problem. This problem can be ignored and said to be false opinions, but then the understanding of these values by a large part of society is also wrong. Then we have another problem. Believe me, if these questions, which are very serious and should be free of strong daily and party political sentiments, are charged with such a contrasting emotion, then this is a very dangerous game. We see that in these months, when this issue has been discussed in society, tolerance and tolerance have not increased, but because of confrontation there are, in fact, objective signs that we can create other, totally unacceptable tensions in Estonia. We have good intentions, and certainly several of the initiators of the draft have had positive motives, but we need to think about how we will move forward in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U91	Thank you. Please, Jaak Allik, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U92	Dear waitress, You have repeatedly spoken of the need to find common ground in the procedure of this law. I have been a great finder of joint parts throughout my political activities, and I think, like you, that the compromise is always the best result. But tell me, please, directly, could there be a rule of law in this common area that we could start looking for together that would allow a partnership agreement or a partnership agreement to be concluded between same-sex persons?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U93	Thank you. The Fatherland and Res Publica Association offered their solutions, within the framework of current family law. I think that the starting point is precisely the embodiment of current family law with the provisions guaranteeing the fundamental rights of individuals. I regret that, a few weeks ago, you're sorry, I don't know if you did it on a personal basis, or, let's say, in the political group, you voted this solution down. In my opinion, the question is whether we really want to solve these things. If we have different concepts, including the different values that are used, this issue cannot be resolved, believe me, by such a majority decision. This is not a reasonable path, as we see today from the reaction of society.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U94	Thank you. Please, Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U95	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I come back to this gulf in society. I would like to ask what will increase this gap in society. If materials are stolen from the Committee on Legal Affairs, from this very House of the Riigikogu, will they be transferred to the press and the persons who are not concerned, such as Imre Sooäär, will enter the proceedings of the Committee on Legal Affairs without having any grounds for doing so? If the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs are replaced, or if they are absent from key sessions, or if members of the Riigikogu, such as Igor Gräzin, are threatened, will it increase the gap in society or increase the gap in society rather than one properly and normally made referendum?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U96	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, With this law, Estonia would move to a European value area. In your opinion, it divides society. Do you think that Estonia does not belong to the European value area and what value area do you think Estonia belongs to?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U97	Thank you. Estonia belongs to the European value area. The inseparable conditions of the European value area are the protection of the fundamental rights of the individual, the application of the rule of law and democracy, which means involving people, which means looking for what unites society rather than separating it, whether through various procedures or electoral procedures. Were these values reflected in the proposed amendment to the family law, which should have provided the weaker party with additional protection? It was worn. We, too, thought that these people, above all women and children, deserved protection. But if you voted against it, I do not dare to say that you want Estonia not to be part of the European value area. I think you had your motives. I respect these motives in political terms as your right to have your own position, but leave me the right to have your own position in this debate as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U98	Thank you very much. Dear waitress, I am concerned, in particular, that the authors of the bill play with the feelings of many social groups. They have certainly played with the feelings of many well-known people, able to convince them that this bill is like standing up for some principles that do not exist at the moment. I would point out, for example, that in the spring some authors of the bill made a particularly shameful claim that this bill is as if it were protecting 200,000 people who are raising children in relationships outside marriage. In addition, the feelings of same-sex couples have also been played, claiming that in Estonia today, same-sex couples are being harassed and that there are no legal possibilities for them to register their property obligations, for example. But my question primarily concerns what you think as a lawyer if we voted in a referendum on this draft, what we would actually be voting on.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U99	Thank you. I respect the views of all the people they express as long as these views are based on people's fundamental rights, that people have their own feelings and perceptions of society. By this logic, there is no wrong or right view. I am pleased that we also understood this in the Riigikogu. When people came to us on the e-mail route, the first attitude was that it was spam and so on. Soon, however, people realized that it was the wrong way to respond to people's views. The people who wrote us against the law of cohabitation have their feelings that they shared. They have very different views. People who wrote us very touchingly in favour of the Law of Cohabitation also have their own feelings. I fully respect the feelings of these people and the desire for their rights to be protected in society. But the question was that we are voting on the cohabitation law in Parliament in such a way that we have a choice, yes or no, and the referendum will also have it in exactly the same form. However, we are voting on a law that regulates family relations in a new way compared to the current regulation of family law. It has been transformed into a matter of very fundamental choice. I do not think that this type of conflict will contribute to finding substantive solutions and increasing tolerance in society. I do not think this is a reasonable course, but unfortunately, both the Riigikogu and the Estonian people have been placed before such a coercion. It therefore makes sense for all political groups to think seriously about the compromise proposed by the IRL so that the representatives of the political groups, after this round of discussions, meet and discuss the common part. In that case, the issue of the referendum would remain off the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U100	Thank you. Please, Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U101	Thank you. Please, Ken-Marti Vaher!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U102	Thank you. As I said, the decision to put the draft law on partnership in a referendum is certainly not a normal step. This is a very carefully considered step. We initiated our draft in July, and the debate over the next few months has shown that confrontation is amplified, so-called inclusive procedures have failed to alleviate tensions in society. The referendum is a serious step, but it is an opportunity to emerge from this situation in such a way that confrontation in society does not last because of Parliament's decision. When this decision is made by the people, I believe that all political forces are based on the fact that the people have spoken, we go on and look again for the part that unites us and not divides us. But the same passion that the speaker described has indeed come to this Parliament, a subject loaded with emotions. We see it in people's opinions, we also see it in politicians' views, in these very less or more appropriate steps. This emotion is exactly the same here. It would be extremely bizarre if it weren't for this House.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U103	Thank you. Tiina Lokk-Tramberg, please, second question! 60 seconds!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U104	Thank you. Of course, the referendum divides the people, yes/no questions always do. I can't imagine how those who remain in the minority will go on. Judging at least from what is happening in my e-mail box, this movement that has led to the situation that today we are voting on whether or not to hold a referendum has been very ambitious and organised. Let me be clear: who is funding it? Any movement requires funding. Who's funding it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U105	The question was about the instruments of anti-cohabitation movement. I don't know how to answer these questions because I haven't organized this movement in any way. But I'm sure those who do both pros and countermeasures will inform the public. It is certainly important to have clarity on such matters. Clarity, but not labelling. The other part of the question concerned the decision whether or not to do so. If we decide yes or no, it's all bad because people feel they've been left out. But on Thursday, we're starting to judge by the current concept, yes or no. Right, there is also the yellow button, which means abstaining, and the fourth possibility that a person will not take part in the vote, which is also one choice if there are people who do not want to decide on different motives. But right now, we're putting forward a choice for society, yes or no. My message is that we are trying to overcome the logic of confrontation. Let us think about how to get out of it in a way that makes society stronger. I repeat, in our opinion, it would be a compromise if we were to take time off now, discuss and look for a common part. In that case, I fully accept that we withdraw our draft. For us, the referendum is not about ourselves, but about how to move forward so that a large part of society does not feel that they have been run over in one way or another.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U106	Thank you. Please, Urbo Vaarmann!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U107	Thank you. Dear waitress, One law firm has carried out a legal analysis of the Cohabitation Act and concluded that it should be put to a referendum. What is your position on this legal analysis?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U108	The basic design of this legal analysis is built on the fact that in the Constitutional Assembly and when the Estonian people adopted the Constitution in the referendum, the concept of family was embodied in a narrower sense than in the text of the draft law on partnership. In such a case, it is such an extensive extension of the rule contained in the Constitution that this mandate cannot be conferred on Parliament by ordinary law. This mandate should be obtained either in a referendum or in another way by changing the constitutional rule. I think that's an interpretation. It is undoubtedly objective to say that the constitutional norms or fundamental rights are, over time, furnished differently and precisely how society has changed. It's an objective reality. However, this legal analysis is certainly a legal argument when considering the need for a referendum. First of all, I think that the referendum is not the kind of issue that we should be dealing with in legal terms, but we need to see in it a substantive opportunity for society to be able to move forward. As far as the definition of a family is concerned, being protected by the state of the family is an objective fundamental right to be protected by the national court.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U109	Thank you. Please, Priit Onion, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U110	Thank you. I wanted to examine whether there was a debate on the content of § 27 (1) of the Constitution in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs when this draft referendum was being discussed. This is what I believe the law on partnership is trying to change. While the present Constitution protects a family between a man and a woman, the Cohabitation Act clearly seeks to extend this section to different communities. Was there such a substantive debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U111	Thank you. I recognise that the content and nuances of the Cohabitation Act were not opened in the wider debate of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The rapporteur for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs can present it more closely, but the discussion generally focused on whether the question was of a nature that could be answered yes or no, and whether this question could, in its meaning or weight, allow for the form of a referendum. Thirdly, 'legal follow-up' was discussed. Mr Tamm recalled the general rule of the Constitution that if the draft law, which the Riigikogu itself has put to the referendum, does not receive support in the referendum, then extraordinary elections to the Riigikogu should come. We provided for the referendum to take place on the day of the Riigikogu elections. Tarmo Tamme's question was that if there were to be a negative answer, would there be a new election in two months' time? No, of course we're not planning such a grotesque situation. However, the referendum law clearly states that this rule does not apply to votes that take place on election day. So it is rational to interpret it. A separate question is that if Parliament decides in favour of a referendum today, which text of the draft will go to a referendum, whether it is the one proposed by the initiators or the revised text. Obviously, some provisions of this draft will be amended. The general interpretation was that, in this case, the text that is expected to be adopted as a final law would still be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U112	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! You mentioned Croatia in your presentation and in your explanatory memorandum, where, indeed, the question of whether marriage can only be between a man and a woman has been put to a referendum. But you did not mention that in July this year, the Croatian Parliament adopted by a large majority the same law on cohabitation as we are currently dealing with here in Estonia. But you told me that this bill talks a lot about framing the concept of family. Perhaps, then, we are going to put the question of what family is in the referendum. We offer some options such as that the family have a mother, father and two children or a mother, father and one child or single mother and child. Then we'll see what the people say, what the people think is family.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U113	Thank you. I think a grandmother who raises a granddaughter is a family too. You asked the very right question, although I understood the orientation of this question, about what you meant by your statement. But you started talking about values. This confrontation has actually arisen in many respects because of the lack of dialogue on these values. People have opposing attitudes. This problem cannot be solved by a majority decision. In that case, we are faced with a lack of legitimacy. It can occur in very different ways in society. Two years ago, Harta 12 was produced, which spoke differently about the lack of legitimacy. It was a completely different subject, and other people took a stand. Now we see that this problem has come up with a completely different aspect. But believe me, it's shortsighted to ignore these signals. The question was whether other countries have solved similar types of problems in the referendum and have sought this common part. My answer is yes, it has been done both in Europe and in the United States. There is, of course, a completely different referendum culture in the United States, where there are perhaps 20 to 30 referendums every year at state level, and every state election asks about gas routes, technical problems and everything else in society. There's a different model of democracy.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U114	Thank you. Please, Barbi Pilvre, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U115	All Estonians have basic rights, which they have at birth. The task of the Estonian state is to protect these fundamental rights. The talk about this draft and the problems that are regulated here is not about subjective fundamental rights. It's not exactly legally competent. We're talking about political choices. These political choices are entirely legitimate for the representative of the people. It is not a question of political choice today. The question is that legalism is not a 'purpose' in itself, with which we can make society stronger. When the summer was the first reading of the Cohabitation Act, Laine Randjärv beautifully said that it was one of the most honest votes in the history of the Riigikogu, because people voted as they thought it was right. I think that the most important thing in these matters is to think about what is right according to everyone's own understanding, how Estonian society can be more coherent, so that we can get rid of this very complex knot and emerge stronger from a situation where there are no good solutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U116	Thank you. Please, Marianne Mikko, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U117	Thank you. I understand that IRL has quite a different understanding when it comes to feelings. But I'm going in the same spirit, a little higher and farther, and I'm talking about something very traditional, namely the sun. Which proverb is closer to your heart, is it that there is nothing new under the sun, or that everyone has a place under the sun?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U118	In my opinion, we have to think that everyone has to have a place under the sun all over the ages. The question is that the debate that society is currently having may be due to the fact that some people in Estonia feel that they do not have this place under the sun. This is a very serious problem. So let's act in the spirit of the common part with these two proverbs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U119	Thank you. Please, Peter Võsa, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U120	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Here too, I have a small desire, driven by the question of Imre Sooääre, to get the verbatim report corrected. No political group can authorise anyone to go to the committee instead of a member of a political Riigikogu. Thus, when Imre Sooäär invaded the session of the Committee on Legal Affairs, it was not the officials who were wrong, but the Group of the Reform Party. Now, here's the correction I'm asking you to write down a verbatim. But I'm gonna ask you a question. Has it not occurred to the honourable waitress that pushing through the law of cohabitation in such a way can be very likely to have a sense of corruption?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U121	No, it's not. Once again, I call for the argument of these passions to be overcome by ad hominem or the ascribed things that I do not think are behind here. I think that the protest of the people is not borne by anything vicious. People follow their better understanding of how fundamental rights should be properly furnished in Estonia. I don't think there's anything corrupt about it, I don't know, in terms of the penal code. Several arguments, which have been used both in favour and against this draft, I think, have not been quite honest. It must be acknowledged that there has also been a very strong dose of day-political sentiment in this place, and it has not benefited from finding a common part, but rather led us away from the solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U122	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U123	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague Urmas! It has always been a mystery to me why such a question has produced such a broad response. In fact, same-sex cohabitation should be of interest to about 3% of the population, and it is completely marginal. I don't care if they register or register. Who cares? But somehow, there's been this kind of confrontation. When the autumn session began in the Riigikogu, the President said that the most important issue was the adoption of the Cohabitation Act. How has this become so painful for the Estonian people? I understand that the proportion of people in the Riigikogu who have some deep personal interest in the matter is the same, not more than 3%, or more than three people. But the people have been driven into two camps, the war is open, some meetings are on the streets. Who's behind this thing, the illumines, the Brussels cabbage or who?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U124	Thank you. As a surprise to me too, this social resonance has been so strong under the Cohabitation Act. As I said, various public opinion studies have also shown that intolerance in society has increased, although one might think that it would ease as a result of such a step. Speaking of the issues that are beginning to create social resonance, which are becoming a central problem, I must say that I came as a complete surprise, like lightning from the clear sky, allowing vodka drinking in a public place. The Centre Party has presented this as a fundamental issue for society. This debate, I understand, is going on another round. Obviously, there are some issues that Parliament deals with infinitely, in the repair of these regulations. For some reason, I think that the issue of drinking alcohol in public will continue to revolve around, and they will come back to it again and again, like the witch stone of Iti and Kusti.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U125	Thank you. Please, Peter Laurson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U126	Thank you, good manager. Dear colleague Urmas! What do you think if the chairman takes a break after the round of questions, what decision might come from the initiators of the Cohabitation Act? Could they take some time off and continue the debate?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U127	Thanks! A good colleague, who you are, unlike me! How do you comment on how to overcome such a fact next time? Indeed, according to the Rules of Procedure, it may be that the original draft law, which is now the draft law on cohabitation, comes from different initiators and may in some ways be on different schedules, although time limits have been stated that after the first reading it should be as clear as the referendum becomes. At the same time, procedural decisions have been adopted which have already changed the content of this original draft, even by withdrawing the same judicial penalties. What would have been the correct approach by the Riigikogu to the combined effect of these two drafts?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U128	If this draft of ours is supported, I think it is reasonable for all Estonian politicians to shape their positions in such a way that this debate is upbuilding, positive and supportive. I hope that our compromise will be accepted, which means that we will take time off and there will be no referendum. However, as I obviously do not consider it possible to support this draft on the motives that I have pointed out, even in the final vote on this yes/no option, I find it difficult to foresee what would force me to change my position if, in a referendum, I had to make this choice as a citizen.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U129	Thank you. I think that the referendum, as the country's most immediate dialogue with its citizens, is certainly a choice that ensures that we all have an obligation to take part in this debate, to inform people more on this issue, to explain things to them, to disprove any misconceptions, or to disprove the arguments given to both opponents and advocates of this law. But once again, I come back to saying in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that explaining the matter to the people would take almost six months, only then could this issue be put to a referendum, but we do not have that time. I don't quite know what time we don't have, who gives it to us, and what we don't have time for. As is well known, the initiators of this draft themselves have given up their desire to enforce the draft by the deadline of 1 January 2015, with some motive that they have postponed its entry into force to 1 January 2016. So there's time. In the light of the opinion of no person or of the initiator of the draft, this debate does not prevent the realisation of the subjective rights to be protected or granted before the representative of the people is presented with a choice, yes or no.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U130	Please, Indrek Saar, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U131	Thank you. Dear waitress, You have repeatedly offered a compromise during your presentation, or talked about interrupting second reading and trying to find a compromise. In my opinion, the initiators of the bill have proposed a compromise. It is precisely the registration of a partnership that we are talking about, and not the institution of marriage that you have repeatedly referred to and which would be a black and white solution. However, I do not know that the IRL Group, at the moment when it was possible to formulate this compromise, would have tabled its amendment and formulated it. Can you formulate this compromise for us here? What would that compromise be, in essence? I am not talking about delaying things into uncertainty, but what can we essentially do to bring us closer to a compromise?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U132	Thank you. My proposal for this compromise contains two things. You referred to the substance of the law. I was talking about how to proceed with this matter. The idea of my compromise was very simple and understandable: let's not push this thing over the top right now, so we wouldn't be doing two readings one week here, I guess somebody was referring to the ESM, if it really was a fire, there were force majesties, there were other things we've been doing, so that we, in a hurry, didn't push it through, even though this law should apply in 16 months, not in two or four months. In that case, we will be able to look for a common section. What are the options of the common section of the section now we come to the content? Indeed, I understand that the initiators of the draft found a compromise among themselves, which consisted in giving couples of the same sex not all the rights that they enjoy in some European countries. This was a compromise between the initiators of the draft. But, in fact, if we discuss it in a passionate, rational way, it is possible to find solutions to a number of issues based on current family law. One element that we have also offered in the spirit of seeking the common part was the draft law amending our family law. I have to admit, I had a little naive hope that it would not go against the'majority decision' or rather the 'no' method, but we could discuss these matters rationally. There are different people and in family relationships the weaker half can be damaged. We should ask what these methods are to give people a sense of security. Unfortunately, the political choice was such that this is not the way. When I look at this confrontation in society, my message is that we're taking time off and looking for the common ground, let's not be afraid to spend any time on it. Believe me, this is a very serious stress that we are currently creating in Estonian society. Let's not do such scientific experiments on society here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U133	Thank you. Mikhail Stalnukhin, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U134	Thank you. Dear waitress, As for the subject of my first question, I would suggest you look at a recent study by the Ministry of Education, which showed that three years of studying in Estonian at the gymnasium did not add anything to the knowledge of the Estonian language of Russian children. Now I'm going to the bill. You're proposing to refer the draft law on partnership to a referendum. But I think this draft is a technical failure and I do not know how to put it to a referendum. I think it's a problem. I would support your draft, but see § 5 (1) excludes § 1 (1). One paragraph forbids, the other allows, and the connection between them is so foggy. Exactly as well as § 5 (2) excludes and cancels out § 1 (2). I don't see the logic in this bill. I don't understand what the authors here wanted to achieve.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U135	I realized the questioner wasn't talking about the draft decision, he was talking about the bill. The question was whether this draft law, which he called a cull, could be put to a referendum in this way. Here we need to look at what this so-called avant-garde, or preliminary ruling, and the resulting follow-up decision are. At the moment, Parliament will, in principle, decide whether this is the kind of question that is going to the referendum. After that, we will essentially look at the so-called technical changes, the possible counterproductive paragraphs to which the questioner referred. But it is clear that Parliament can put a draft law into a referendum, a valid constitution and a valid law on referendum give this mandate. The right thing is that, in this case, the final text of this draft, which we will be working on in the next few days, will go to the referendum. If Parliament has approved the referendum decision, if it should happen, then it is a question of what to do if the draft changes beyond recognition. In that case, it is my urgent request to the lead committee to propose that the draft be suspended.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U136	Thank you. Please, Olga Soldier, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U137	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! As you may have read it yourself, Russia has also financed this foundation, which is supposed to protect traditions and democracy, on the basis of various data. I think even Mr. Jakun has something to do with this. As former Minister of Defence, do you not think that cooperation with such an organisation poses a high security risk to the Estonian state? We see that you have very close links with this foundation, but we also see that this foundation has been financed by the Russian authorities or by some Russian interest groups. I therefore have a clear understanding that you will cooperate with Russia and thus undermine the security of the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U138	Thank you. Olga, are you still at the Centre Party on paper or not? Uh-huh! Now you're accusing me that when we talk about the Estonian state, values and family, I have some kind of cooperation with Jaken on this matter. No, the address is wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U139	Tatiana Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U140	Thank you. I like to say whether you believe it or not, but you're right. I believe that we have all experienced either being outnumbered or being in the majority of our lives. We all know how it feels. It could be even more balanced. I'll give you an example of history. The October Revolution was won by the majority, but what it brought with it is what we all know. The question is this: is it about winning a majority or supporting and maintaining a minority?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U141	Thank you. Unlike the waitress, I went to math class. The Riigikogu has 101 members, the draft was initiated by 40 members. 101 40 = 61. 40 is less than 61. I am simply stating that this is a draft initiated by a minority. If he gets most of the support, we'll find out. The question, however, is simple. If this bill is put to a referendum, will Urmas Reinsalu vote in favour of the Cohabitation Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U142	Thank you. I don't want to attribute it to the initiators of this bill as if there was something malicious here. The course of events and debate has been as it has been, at the level that the initiators of the draft have considered reasonable and sufficient. My argument is that it has not been enough. My point is that there is a gap in society right now. The reaction of society could have been different, it could have been expressed in some other way, but today this fundamental confrontation is expressed as we have seen. The current procedure is like a Brezhnev package: all three things, two readings of the draft law on partnership, plus deciding on a referendum, are put in one week, two days. Our proposal is that we take time off now, discuss with the representatives of the political groups and find a solution. We will all try to take a step backwards and look for a common part, in which case we will also withdraw this referendum proposal. It is not possible for politicians to leave their homework to someone else, or not completely, that they will come up with other questions and life will go on. No, there is a problem in society, and we are facing it. In changed circumstances, we must be prepared to seek a common solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U143	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. I ask Väino Linde, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to speak!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U144	Ladies and gentlemen, Good chairman of the sitting! If the Riigikogu decided to approve the draft decision to be discussed, it would certainly make history today. It would be the first time in Estonia today that the full text of the draft law will be put to the referendum. We recall that the adoption of the Constitution and the entry into the European Union together with the so-called third act of the Constitution have been put to a referendum in the past. But I will say right away that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not support this proposal by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union at its meeting on 22 September. After completing this point, a vote was taken. The Commission proposes not to support this draft (with 6 votes for and 3 against and no abstentions). The debate was very colourful and nuanced, both political and legal views and arguments were presented. I am now talking about how the Commission reached its position. Archbishop Andres Põder, President of the Estonian Council of Churches, as well as Ruudi Leinus, Executive Secretary of the Estonian Council of Churches, were invited to the meeting. At the beginning of the item discussion, a good colleague, Urmas Reinsalu, explained the nature of the draft decision currently under discussion. He explained that the group had offered to continue to deal with the draft law on partnership 650 in such a way that Parliament would turn to the electorate for a position, which would take place on 1 March 2015. He pointed out, in defence of his proposal, that next year there would also be a referendum in Ireland on same-sex marriage. The initiator of the draft act also said that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs should certainly not open any debate on the substance of the Cohabitation Act at this committee meeting, as it is the Committee on Legal Affairs. Archbishop Põder explained that, according to their understanding, this issue should still go to a referendum in order for the people to respond, yes or no, to the proposal to extend the family concept in the vote. My colleague, Kalev Eagle, asked what would happen if the number of votes needed to enter into force the draft law on partnership changed, whether at least 51 votes were needed or not. Our Commission's advisor, Kristo Varend, explained that these two drafts should be brought to the same distance in the proceedings and then a joint procedure would take place. Based on the number of votes needed for the adoption of the basic draft, this final draft will also be processed. Mr Tarmo Tamm felt that it would still be necessary to ask the opinion of the people. A good colleague, Rait Maruse, said that it is right, of course, that Estonia is a parliamentary state, that, according to the constitution, Parliament has been given the right to represent the people, and that the people have given Parliament the power to adopt laws and to put one or the other draft law to a referendum if Parliament considers it necessary. Rait Marustele is concerned about the fact that the draft law on cohabitation is intended to be put to a referendum with the wish that society be consolidated, but the reality may turn out to be quite the opposite, which could further divide society. He did not consider the idea of a referendum to be the best idea in this context. We all agreed that the Riigikogu is indeed a legitimate representative of the people and the draft decision in question does not call into question the competence of the representative of the people, but of course there would be a chance. We also listened to Mr Rein Lang, who said that he felt that IRL's proposal to put this draft to a referendum was a bad plan. This bill has a lot of different points. The Cohabitation Act makes it possible to register the cohabitation of both same-sex and different-sex persons. Which principle should be supported by the one who will vote yes or no in the referendum? In the end, the referendum can only cause more confusion. Mr Lang explained to us that he, as a lawyer, categorically opposed the current version of the Cohabitation Act to a referendum, he opposed it not only for political reasons, but also for purely legal reasons, because Bill No 650 has become legally incorrect in the Committee on Legal Affairs and in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. He did not consider it reasonable to put such a draft to a referendum. As I said, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not deal with the substance of the Cohabitation Act; it is the responsibility of the Committee on Legal Affairs, not the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but we were also talking about the following. Unfortunately, after the first reading of this draft, the Committee on Legal Affairs has excluded from it the very necessary provisions, such as those concerning the judicial protection of partners in partnership, regardless of whether they would have been same-sex or different-sex couples. We know that this has been done in accordance with the practice of bad regulation, only with the objective that the draft does not require 51 votes. It has been heard that these court-related provisions are intended to be silently included in another draft, such as the draft Code of Civil Procedure, but maybe also be deleted. This is not clear from the basic bill. This has not been the case in the Riigikogu before. As I said, this is also a bad legislative practice for other, new drafts. If, for example, the draft Cohabitation Act is approved and legitimized in referendums, it may deprive the new Riigikogu of the right to make amends to these mistakes and this bad lawmaking practice can become a tradition. As a lawyer, Mr Rein Lang did not consider this possible, and I agree with his position. Anyway, as I said, ladies and gentlemen, there was finally a vote in the Commission. 6 members of the Commission were in favour of not supporting this draft, and 3 opposed it. So the decision is not to put the draft to 650 referendums. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U145	Please, Siim Kisler, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U146	Thank you. Good waitress! What do you think of the compromise proposed today that the IRL will withdraw the draft decision on the referendum and the founding fathers of the Cohabitation Act agree that the second reading of the Cohabitation Act will be interrupted, time taken off on this issue and a compromise will be sought?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U147	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! During the summer, Jüri Männik, a well-known family friend of mine, a highly recognized psychologist in Estonia and Sweden, asked me why this law was brought here before the Riigikogu. In his opinion, Estonian society is not ready for the discussion and reception of this law, especially in the light of our recent past. I didn't know why this bill was brought here at such a difficult and difficult time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U148	Thank you, good questioner! This is, in many respects, the subject of the next draft. But I was one of those people who did not support this idea of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica. I do not consider it necessary to take any recess, because I would vote against this idea as such.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U149	Please, Erki Arrow, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U150	Thank you. Good Commission waitress! You started by saying that if the draft law was put to a referendum, the precedent would have re-independenced in Estonian history. In the course of this debate, did you discuss changing this proposal or the bill and merely question whether the people support same-sex life or marriage? Was there a discussion like this? Secondly, I ask you the same question as Mr Reinsalu. Did the Commission also discuss why we need to reach the five countries that recognise the analogous law on cohabitation?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U151	Thank you. There was no such theme set-up in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs during the debate on this draft decision. However, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs could only discuss a draft text that had been submitted to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. There was no other way to discuss it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U152	Eldar Efendiev, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U153	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! You talked a lot about the weaknesses of the draft we are currently discussing, but you also said that this bill was normative or legally incorrect. Can you say in a few words what is normatively or legally incorrect in this bill? I'd really like to understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U154	Thank you. Let me briefly explain this earlier point. After all, we are now discussing the draft decision that will next be put to the referendum in the Riigikogu. I referred to the fact that there was talk in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs of an incorrect draft 650, but we talked about the fact that the draft we are currently debating is above all political positions: yes or no. But these two are connected. Yeah, I admit it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U155	Please, Jaak Aaviksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U156	Thank you. Good speaker! Did I understand correctly that this draft referendum did not find the Commission's support (vote result 6: 3) particularly for political reasons? Was there, in the Commission's view, a legal opportunity to put this draft to a referendum, but simply a majority of the Commission did not want to do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U157	Thank you. I have just referred here to the proceedings of the Commission sitting and to the ideas expressed there. I'll stay with them. For what reasons exactly did all six voters vote like this, I find it difficult to say. However, I know that I was based on both political and legal motives relating to the next draft to be discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U158	Please, Marko Pomerance!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U159	First of all, I will respond to your claim that I have given grotesque examples. Well, they were a little euthanized, but those things were in your bill. Basically, my question is the same. For all you've said, I have two ways to figure this out: either you're a Pharisee or you don't live up to what you say. You're always talking about not voting off the bill, not being confronted and doing it together. The IRL did not come up with any amendments within three months. None! Zero! What did you do all summer?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U160	Thank you. IRL presented its draft family law, which we also hoped for in a sincere and inclusive debate. We hoped that there would be a public debate, as was the case with the Cohabitation Act. Unfortunately, I must say that this debate did not arise. But, my friends, when we submitted this draft decision, it took place before the summer, there is a parliamentary procedure here, there are actually certain time frames on how this can be done, it would not have been possible to do this in the autumn, then we had a place of hesitation and debate that maybe this debate is going in a different direction than it seemed at the beginning of the summer that we might have been presenting this draft at the beginning of autumn. In fact, this was not the possibility that Parliament would now have the opportunity to consider this matter of a referendum. We were hoping that this debate would unite society, rather than create as much opposition as we have seen in recent months. I must say retroactively that our proposal to offer Parliament the opportunity of a referendum was reasonable. I will return to our core compromise proposal. We discussed this very intensively. We suggest we take some time off and find a common ground. I understand that many feel that the reactions of society are not important, they are not shaken by opinions, because they are wrong opinions. I think the debate will go wrong if we say so. There's a lot of people, whether they're a majority or a minority, but a lot of people who really care about it. Is it reasonable that this issue is so important to society? It is simply a fact that it is important to people. I do not think it makes any sense for us to assume that this is a common legal problem, as it is solved in ordinary, more technocratic legislation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U161	Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U162	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! I'm a little speculating. If there is a referendum, how do you assess what could be the question you are addressing the people with? Is this a purely normative question, which is related to this draft, or is it still a fundamental question that you have been talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U163	Thank you. We have been based on the fact that our referendum proposal is a reaction to the cohabitation law, we do not take it as a matter of our own, wanting to have a mandate for the people. We have proposed that there is a specific question: do you support the cohabitation law or not? It's a yes/no choice. We studied the practice of referendums in different countries. The right thing is that there have also been so-called 'opciative referendums' in several countries, where a choice between the 4 to 5 response options can be made. But we found it more reasonable to stick to one choice, either yes or no, in the light of the tradition of referendums so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U164	Thank you. I think this message from the majority and the minority, the question of whether the majority wins, is the most topical right now in this Chamber. In fact, we are not looking for a common part and consensus, but for a majority vote. Those who have a different opinion are outnumbered, their opinion is not supported. There's a bit of a turning point in society right now. After all, in day politics and ordinary matters, we make decisions with the support of the majority. Although I am in opposition, I am the last to criticise this way. It is actually a model of representative democracy. The question is, what are these cultural boundaries? But there are certain moments where we need to look for the common ground. In my opinion, this is a moment in which we cannot say that the majority has the absolute right to impose itself on the minority. I think this is where the truth should rule.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U165	Please, Thomas Tõniste, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U166	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! During the debate on the draft IRL, at least some of the people of the Riigikogu were afraid that they might have to share their Volvo with their partners where justice is. What fear arises when the law on partnership is not upheld and does not work? What, then, will make these people worse than they are now, or will they remain the same? They live here in Estonia, many of them have come to this country and they are satisfied with their lives here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U167	Thank you. Even if people in a factual relationship do not wish to regulate their relations if the Cohabitation Act enters into force, the legal order of these relationships remains the same. It cannot be argued that there will be any change here and that there will be either additional rights or additional restrictions or burdens. That's not gonna happen. Change still requires an active step by two parties. Our logic was actually built on it that the proportion of people living in common-law or factual partnerships is very high in Estonia, especially among younger people. That's a fact. If such partnerships exist, the question is whether society must in any way be able to protect children and the weaker side, above all women. We offered our model. It is not a unique model, it has been used in several countries. Indeed, there was a somewhat surprising opposition that there might be a situation where the property of a man living in a factual relationship could be damaged, say, in favour of a woman or children, and therefore cannot be supported by this concept. Liisa Pakosta, the rapporteur for this draft, was asked a critical question as to whether the Volvo should be abandoned. The answer is, unfortunately, yes, Volvo must be given up if, according to the logic of this relationship, it is fair and in the interests of the protection of the weaker party. In fact, the Cohabitation Act also referred to the problem of the fact of unregistered partnerships, which remains unresolved in this version of the Cohabitation Act. Although the explanatory memorandum to the Cohabitation Act marked it by considering different options, the authors explained in the explanatory memorandum why they gave up this option or did not want to regulate it, the fact is that we did this experiment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U168	Please, Ken-Marti Vaher, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U169	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, thank you very much for being passionately and rationally able to answer many questions today on a subject that has created a great deal of incredible emotions. My question concerns the gap that some of the draft authors have said a lot about today. It is as if they have been genuinely concerned about how to bridge the gap that their own draft has created. Perhaps you will conclude by repeating the idea or suggestion of how to bridge the gap that the draft submitted on 17 April has created in Estonian society. What could be the next move to get over this ripple of emotions?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U170	They're like kids that are hard to race. However, in reply to the legal theory, both drafts should be brought to the same level of procedure, they can be merged once, of course, the Riigikogu has previously approved the possibility of referendum separately. So now, ladies and gentlemen, it is in your hands, regardless of what was believed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to decide whether or not to put this draft to a referendum. It should all go on in the next stages, if it does, of course. But the position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was negative.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U171	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Väino Linde! Now I'm opening negotiations. Would the representatives of the political groups like to speak? Please, Priit Onion! I'll ask you now if you want more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U172	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U173	Here's the question. I'm glad you understand the letters from the people who are in favour of this law. Me too. At the same time, we also have many letters against this law. That's where it's hard for me. I'm in correspondence with these people, but I can't figure it out. Somehow I believe you understand them better. Which of the fears or problems raised by the opponents of the law would we take down by referendum or by taking this issue to the elections as your party wishes? What could be better explained?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U174	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U175	Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U176	I don't want to attribute any tagging claims to the initiators of the bill. I don't think that's fair. I call for this debate not to be held in the style of argument ad hominem. I think that the initiators of the draft act were based on their better beliefs on how to organise society, on what values to do it and on what rights to give people. For everything that is being done, the question is whether it is done right or wrong. The right thing to do must be done right by those who do it, and there is no reason to do the wrong thing either way. It is a question of the method or the way in which this issue has been approached. The speed has been chosen so fast that we can do it and then come what comes, as Igor Gräzin expressed. I think one thing is whether there is readiness in society, what general attitudes and human feelings are, but twice as poor is the timing when we think about the stress that currently prevails in society with regard to the security situation. I must say that this is not quite a responsible line of conduct. To play with things that are very sensitive to all of society, people of different nationalities and backgrounds, who form our community, and then imagine that the matter is so that the aim consecrates the means and the method is not important! We can see that although the aim in the broader sense is to increase tolerance and support for open values, research shows that we have been moving in the opposite direction in recent times. No matter what we justify it, we must realise that we need to make a very precise sense of these trends or attitudes in society; we must not close our eyes to them.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U177	Peter Laurson, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U178	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! There have been drafts in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, which have been subject to a very wide range of disagreements and a social debate. For example, the debate on hunting law lasted seven years, a consensus was finally reached and this law is now in force. What do you think forces the initiators of the bill of partnership to rush and push this bill over the top? What could it be, even though we understand that society would be divided after this law was passed?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U179	I do.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U180	I believe that imposing such a speedy pace is based on the logic of the doctrine formulated by Igor Gräzin, that we do it quickly, let's not even get into legal problems, let's not see that the implementation provisions are missing, as long as we get out of the way. I think this is not quite a fair line of thought and it creates confrontation and stress in society and not loses them. But I will say once again that I do not want to attribute to any of the supporters of this law or to the adversary any so-called 'tagging claims' or degrading qualities. We are acting in this Chamber according to our own understanding of what is right for the Estonian society, which we consider to be right and believe. We must act within these frameworks in order to be guided by common values and principles enshrined in the Constitution. It's very important. At present, a little bit of discourse on the one hand or on the other is being made to have the wrong opinion and the right opinion, we are on one side of the front line or on the other, and everyone has to say yes or no, because then everything is clear. There must be no such mood. I think that if we try to resolve these issues with such a mood, the confrontation will deepen. We are simply trying to deny that there is inevitably confrontation in society, there is a lot of stress, misunderstandings, a lot of objective lack of information, a lot of disagreement with the values that this bill bears. Denial is not a solution to the substance of the problem and questions. A majority decision, as one of the questioners said very rightly, is not the method by which we treat such confrontations.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U181	Please, Maimu Berg, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U182	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Speaker! What if society doesn't mature? How do we recognize that society is now ripe? If society does not mature to the extent necessary, will we leave some people unprotected and so-called open?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U183	Thank you. When we talk about family and civil law relations, different legal relationships are currently regulated in Estonia. The IRL has proposed to regulate these issues within the framework of current family law. The claim that the law is ready, but society is not ready to live under this law, the Estonian society is not mature or how this used image was, I think, perhaps the most sensible way of thinking is not very much about solving the issues that led to feelings and social debate, it would be 'top-down' to solve. For all those who would like, say, to regulate these issues, I think that, if there is such a confrontation, there is also a way of finding a substantive debate and consensus. The same people, we ourselves, who shape our attitudes and positions in one way or another and express them on one issue or another, contribute to the formation of society and its values. Let's not rule out the debate, let's discuss it before we decide, but not that we make a decision and then come what comes, or we'll just start explaining it. I think if this thing goes this way, it'll go wrong. Let's take this time, think about it and find a common ground. Believe me, we can get out of this situation in such a way that a large part of society, no matter how this vote falls out on Thursday, feels that it has remained unprotected in the wider sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U184	Igor Gräzin, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U185	Since there was talk about my claim that things could go faster, I'm just going to be more specific. Even in this discussion three minutes ago, someone said that if there is no law, people will remain unprotected and open. It's like they've been exposed and exposed for 30 years. If there is a referendum, especially if it remains close to the elections, do you think and believe that political parties, associations, the public sector and others are capable of leading a rational discussion that has not been held until today? I recall what a member of the Riigikogu said three minutes ago. It's tragic to say it's bullshit, isn't it? But can we assume the responsibility that the confrontation doesn't deepen?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U186	When I prepared this proposal, I too had this very serious question as to whether the result of the referendum could be the concern that, in fact, we are moving away from each other rather than approaching. Once again, I stress that our aim must be such that society is stronger. We must not take such a step that a large part of society, no matter how this vote on the law takes place in the coming days, would feel that the perception of values or what they consider important in this society is being contradicted. We haven't done this homework, friends, let's be honest. There's only a handful of political slogans. Guys, we're talking about a lot of nuances. I asked Liisa Pakosta to clarify the subject of children's rights and Liisa did so very thoroughly. These things are not black and white; on several issues children's rights are not put first, they are only a political slogan. There are questions that can be resolved in a completely different way. He gave similar examples from other countries. Unfortunately, we've missed the rational debate. Consequently, inclusion has not, in my view, been what society needs to make sense of such a question. The question is also whether politicians are mature. We are talking about whether society is mature, but are politicians mature if we do not go to the compromise we have proposed, but the Riigikogu would decide to put the draft Cohabitation Act to a referendum? This is a very serious test for Estonian politicians, I say it very clearly. There is a question mark as to whether we are worthy of this responsibility. My proposal was that all political forces agree certain good practices among themselves for this debate: we do not label, we do not use arguments that are not relevant, we try to avoid argumentum-ad-homem-behaviour, we talk about the matter, we try to explain basic choices to people. I think it's very important. Sometimes there is the idea that we can build a different society, a brighter and better society, either by means of 'force' or by means of 'laws'. Even if society is not mature, in a democratic community, especially in a small nation state, such a mindset has very important limits.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U187	Thank you. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U188	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I'll move on to my first question. Psychologist Jüri Männik also thought that when Parliament took up this difficult issue, he should have taken into account that it was very difficult to come out of this situation. He couldn't even suggest how we could get out of here with a clean face. You've offered one way, the other way, and the third. What concrete steps could Parliament take to preserve its relatively clean face?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U189	Thank you. The proposal is very simple. We are making a clear compromise, we are taking the President's break, we are calling the representatives of the political groups, and we are agreeing that we are taking time off. After that, the IRL Group will withdraw the draft decision on the referendum and we will try perfectly calmly, without emotions, rationally to find solutions to the issues that are in the air and for which we are trying to find consensus. Our call is to discuss those issues that want to be regulated, which need to be considered and discussed, also referred to by Indrek Saar, such as factual marriage, which is not recommended even if it is regulated by the Cohabitation Act. Those questions are open. We are all prepared to take one step back and look for a common part, not to reject it and to reduce the debate to a yes or no decision. It's not just a yes or no. There is one political choice before us, but believe me, within this choice there are a number of very fundamental political choices that have been made. In several cases, these choices are not based on the political principles attached to this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U190	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U191	Ladies and gentlemen, Cute guests! The draft law on cohabitation has obviously attracted the most attention in this Parliament. There is also a serious reason for this. Despite the efforts of the initiators to talk about this bill in a way that only concerns the relationship between two grown-ups, now tens of thousands, or even hundreds of thousands, understand that this is far from the case. This law seeks to reshape our understanding of the fundamental values of society and culture. This bill only implements part of the real purpose of legitimizing gay marriages. So said Christian Veske at the opinion seminar organised by the Committee on Legal Affairs, who said that same-sex people are willing to meet the rest of society and not immediately demand gay marriages. Following what has happened in other countries, it seems, unfortunately, that this regularisation is quite likely. The saddest thing is that this law is likely to cause only a lot of trouble, and the real solutions are open to no one. Before we started dealing with this bill here, there were no problems in society, no talk of anger or of mutual insults. Of course, people were aware that we had same-sex couples living next door. It didn't bother anyone. With this draft, the initiators have deliberately or unintentionally managed to achieve a social divide. People have chosen a side, but this side has not evolved on the basis of nationality, age or anything else on such a surface, but on the basis of a conflict of values. In the opinion of a large number of people, the law of cohabitation breaks down the boundaries of the concept of family, what is sacred to them. It tries to rewrite the previous concepts of being human and the basis of life. This is a major cultural shift. On the basis of § 27 of the Constitution, the family is protected by the state as a basis for the survival and growth of the people and society. It is true, unfortunately, that there is no legal definition of the family in the law. However, when you read the executive edition of the Constitution, it is clear that it is a union between a man and a woman. There is a deep reason for this, for only the union of man and woman can guarantee the survival and growth of the people in a wonderful life - giving way. In the same way, most people in Estonia understand this, and that is what the founders of the Constitution meant. If we no longer understand the basic concepts, let us open a dictionary explaining the Estonian language, according to which the family is a married couple with their descendants and close relatives, who belong to the household, while the marriage is a family union between a man and a woman (hrl officially registered) and a partnership. In September, attorneys Aivar Pilv, Ilmar-Erik Aavakivi and Jaak Siim published a thorough legal analysis, the main conclusion of which was that the original purpose of § 27 of the Constitution was to give special protection to the family as a union between a man and a woman. According to the authors of the analysis, the minutes of the sittings of the Constitutional Assembly, the final report of the Legal Expertise Committee of the Constitution, and the practice of the Supreme Court, do not allow the conclusion that the original purpose of § 27 (1) of the Constitution would have been to protect the cohabitation of persons of the same sex as a family. Supporters of the bill, including President Ilves, say that time has changed. Time doesn't change by itself, we change time. Some of us also want to force our understanding, ideals, and beliefs to change. Recently, there has been a vigorous redefinition of words other than 'family' and'marriage'. Thus, more and more people hear that democracy no longer means organising state life on the basis of the beliefs and will of the majority of the people. Then all I have to do is ask: what exactly are we doing here in the Riigikogu and how should Parliament work in this case? Since we do not have legal definitions of everything, as I have already said, I turned again to the dictionary explaining the Estonian language, which gives the word 'democracy' the following meaning: popular power, the form of political order in which the state is governed by elected ambassadors, civil liberties and democratic rights, and the form of social relations in which joint action within the group meets the wishes of the majority. A recent study by TNS Emor shows that as much as 67%, or two thirds of the population, is not in favour of the national recognition of a homosexual couple as a family. Studies commissioned by Estonian National Broadcasting in August also showed that the adoption of the Cohabitation Act would be contrary to the expectations, beliefs and will of the majority of voters in all parliamentary parties. We all know that it would be an unambiguous move against the will of the people, that it would be a drive by force from the will of the people. Given the beliefs that have developed in Estonian society over the centuries, our cultural context and the unprecedented response of the people to the cohabitation procedure is our proposal to put the draft Cohabitation Act to a referendum. We call on all MPs to support it. Let us not be afraid to give the people the opportunity to have a say in organizing our social life. Let us show that we are democrats not only in words but also in deeds. Let us trust the people in the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U192	Thank you. Please, Valdo Randpere!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U193	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, You've been suggesting on several occasions that the draft law on partnership is very inadequate, over-the-counter and whatever. I just wanted to remind you that on 17 April this bill was handed over to the Riigikogu, on 18 June it was the first reading and on 12 September it was the deadline for submitting amendments. There were no amendments from the IRL Group. I know you're gonna tell me you made your bill, and it was gonna be awesome forever. But this draft of yours... In short, if the Riigikogu wanted to prank the IRL, it would have adopted your draft as a law. After all, this bill basically means that when a boy and a girl meet at a disco and go to one apartment or another, the apartment is their joint property in the morning. You had even forgotten to describe what would happen if a boy and a boy did. Why didn't you propose any amendments to the existing draft when you see a problem with child protection, etc.?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U194	Thank you, Honourable Asker. First of all, the IRL Group has made a very clear proposal to this effect, we have also sent a letter on this issue of family law and civil relations to regulate it within the framework of the current family law. We expressed our willingness to do so. Secondly, we submitted our draft family law. I'm not going to comment on the grotesque claims you made. But what I'm saying is that we did it in good faith and in our understanding of how people are better. I believe that you presented the draft law on cohabitation in exactly the same way on the basis of your better understanding. If we have different perceptions, it is my proposal to seek a common understanding, not the opposing view that this is your draft, you are outnumbered and we will vote your draft out of Parliament's proceedings. This is not a reasonable way of resolving such a question. This may sometimes be a reasonable way of doing so, say, for example, in dealing with the state budget, there are monetary matters, tax matters, and political parties are clearly holding a political debate. But I would remind you that there is a very strong social resonance on the subject we are discussing. Believe me, we can't play with people's feelings. We must not play with the feelings of people who, when there is no law, seem to have been hurt. We must not play with the feelings of the people to whom, when this law comes, it seems that a law has been passed that does not reflect the values on which they believe that the Estonian state is built. This isn't a joke, guys.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U195	Please, Valdo Randpere, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-07_U196	Thank you. Our hearing is adjourned. The statement registered by Indrek Saare will be placed on the agenda for tomorrow's sitting. Have a good day. Closure of the sitting at 13.02 a.m.
