ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the session of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday of the 11th working week. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please, Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It is my great honour to hand over the draft law supplementing the Law on Maritime Safety on transit and logistics to the Riigikogu on behalf of 16 members of the Community. Its purpose is to ensure legal clarity in the calculation of the water charge for vessels engaged in regular voyages in a situation where the vessel carrying out regular voyages has been replaced by a replacement vessel. In order to achieve legal clarity, this law should be supplemented and the possibility that, in the event of replacement of a ship engaged on regular voyages, the debtor would have to pay double the water charge. According to the information provided by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, this bill has no negative impact on the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U3	Thank you. Please, Siim Kisler!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! On behalf of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, I hand to the Riigikogu the draft law on reform of the local government organisation. The draft has been thoroughly prepared by the Ministry of the Interior and has also been on the inter-ministerial coordination cycle. So the big job is done, the bill is ready. Unfortunately, it must be concluded from the interim government action programme that the government probably does not intend to present this draft to the Riigikogu at the moment. However, in order not to lose the year, so that the municipalities can continue their accession activities and are ready for the reform in 2017, we will submit a draft to the Riigikogu today to speed up the process. According to public opinion surveys, most Estonians support the principles of this draft. On the website of the Ministry of the Interior, it is possible to consult the results of this study, which shows that 71% of Estonian residents with a strong opinion support the principles of this draft and only 29% oppose it. There is greater support, especially among villages and townspeople. Thus, the smaller the population unit, the smaller the place, the greater the support for the principles of this draft. And it is the people of such places that are most affected by this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U5	Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two draft laws. The Management Board decides to accept them in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. I also announce that the manager no longer reads any drafts, enquiries, etc. from behind this table. All members of the Riigikogu have received an e-mail containing both the drafts adopted on the board and the names of ministers present in Question Time. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 92 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, there is no 9.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U6	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the first reading of the draft Act amending § 6 of the Estonian Flag Act, initiated by the National Defence Committee. I would like a presentation by Lauri Vahtre, Member of the National Defence Commission of the Speaker's Office!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U7	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U8	Excuse me for a second, waitress! [[Summing in the hall, the manager ringing the bell.]] Please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U9	Ladies and gentlemen, The idea of adding Veteran Day to the flag days was presented by the National Defence Committee, headed by Mati Raidma. In cooperation with the Ministry of Defence, the relevant draft was prepared, which has now reached its first reading. This draft does not try to deal with our entire calendar, which is a very wide-ranging phenomenon and on which there is much debate to be expected, but focuses specifically on one day and one paragraph. As you can see, it is proposed to change 23 April as one of the flag days of Veteran Day. This is part of a broader veteran policy launched by the Ministry of Defence in the past year. In fact, the preliminary work started even earlier. Last year was the first public celebration of Veteran's Day, and it worked out very well. Veterans are part of our society, part of our nationalists and other fellow citizens, and there are actually quite a number of them. In addition to the fact that legislative initiatives provide for certain advantages for veterans that they deserve, they have a need for recognition. We all need recognition if we have done something worthy of recognition. Raising the flag is one such tribute that does not ask for food, which does not require resources, but requires us to think for a moment about the pain and suffering of many people. That's what's needed to stay together and keep our society together. I ask for this draft to be supported, and I also ask, if possible, not to spread out in the debate, but to focus precisely on what it wants to regulate. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U10	Thank you very much. Please, Kalev Lillo, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U11	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, I very much support the initiative of transforming 23 April as Veteran Day into a flag day, as I am more in favour of using the Estonian flag. But if we look at today's date, we'll see that April 23 is very close. It's a little more than a week, and we probably won't be able to introduce that law by then. Can we voluntarily raise the flag in our homes on April 23rd this year, or are there any obstacles?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U12	Yes, this question arose because the draft had been drawn up with a timetable so that the law would have entered into force so that this year it would have been officially the flag day. However, by decision of the determining Commission, a timetable for the slower procedure was chosen. This is therefore a question for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, not for me. So officially, this day can't be flag day this year. However, on behalf of the National Defence Committee, I can also call for the raising of state flags this year. We asked the lawyer for an administrative infringement procedure. I guess that was a joke question. The flag can always be raised for good reason, and we can also make this call through the media. So fly the flags!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U13	Thank you. Before the next questioner follows, I would ask the members of the Riigikogu to discuss with each other a little more quietly. Please, Andrus Ansip!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U14	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Lauri! I can't come up against your request not to disperse. Me and a lot of other landlords have that kind of problem. When the flag day happens to be on holiday or during summer vacation, I wake up and feel like I've broken the law again. The sun's already high, but I haven't raised the flag yet. Or at night, I often discover that I have sinned again: I am blind outside, but the flag is still waving. Do you think it is possible that this sufficiently strict regulation regarding the time of raising and lowering the flag will be abolished?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U15	Thank you for your question. Of course, it is enshrined in our law and it is within our power to change it if we so decide. I hope I'm not mistaken, but I understand that Veteran Day is a flag day when raising the flag is not mandatory for the owner of the house, but recommended. In municipalities and public authorities, the flag must be raised in a mandatory manner and perhaps there is a janitor who will rise on time. It is practically the problem of mandatory raising of the flag only on the morning of the Midsummer Day, when we may have left for the country. On Midsummer Eve, the flag will be flying all night until Midsummer Day morning, and then there won't be a problem. So only on these few holidays, when the flag is also mandatory for private owners, can we talk about this concern. The habit of raising and lowering the flag is interesting. I think it's a kind of heritage, which, although uncomfortable, could be preserved. The idea is to raise and drop our flag in the tower of Toompea. You don't practice anything like that anywhere else. But it is an old tradition that is already over a hundred years old, and it is not justified to abandon it simply because others do not do so. If the English can keep their police in a building called Scotland Yard, where there is no Scottish embassy, if they don't change that name, why can't we have an interesting, really navy-derived tradition of raising and lowering the flag that has been in place throughout our independence?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U16	Thank you. Please, Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U17	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I have this question: why was that date chosen to celebrate Veteran Day?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U18	That is also a very good question. During the period of independence between the two wars, evil effort was made to decide the day to honor the veterans of that time. If I remember correctly, that day changed three times. This is how a suitable date was now sought during this new initiative. This was an intellectually very fun and exciting game, the date was supposed to be appropriate in content and, secondly, it had to be as favorable as possible in the season. Finally, they arrived on 23 April, which is known to be George's Day. At Jüriöö, however, one of the greatest uprisings in the name of his freedom, which Estonia's history knows, was ever launched. True, it ended with defeat, but not that night. That night was very victorious. And to the end, and as a bonus, Saint George is also the patron saint of warriors.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U19	Are you done? Thank you. Please, Rait Maruse!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U20	Thank you. The rapporteur noted that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs chose a slow course of action. I want to comment on that a little bit. It shall bear the date of 19 February. Any draft procedure in the Commission is a mandatory condition for the Government of the Republic's opinion on the draft, and the Government of the Republic took five weeks to shape its position on the draft. I don't know why it's been so long in the Department of Defense, but it took me that long. And if you count this time for another week off work, I don't think we've been dragging or dragging our legs, we've been working on time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U21	Thank you! Then let me have your own comment. I take back the words that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has chosen a slow procedure and I will specify: the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has failed to choose a fast procedure. That would have been possible if there was a will to do so. Such a proposal was presented at the meeting of the Commission but was rejected and maintained in the normal procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U22	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U23	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I apologise in advance for the dispersal, but unfortunately the flag of Estonia is not often spoken of in this hall, and that is why I am tempted to ask you. You are a rather long-term Member, and I know that our colleagues have on several occasions raised the issue of why there is only a small table flag in this Chamber, there is no great flag of state. In many parliaments, it exists in the hall, and I ask you what you think about it, if there would be a large Estonian flag in our hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U24	Thank you for your question. I, of course, like our flag very much. I have liked this very much since I was little, but I am sorry, this is not the subject of this item in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U25	No further questions. Thank you very much, Lauri Vahtre. I would like a co-presentation by Väino Linde, Member of the Constitutional Committee of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U26	Honourable President! Honourable colleagues Members of the Riigikogu! The current version of the Estonian Flag Act was adopted in 2005 and its sixth paragraph lists the flag days. There's a total of 15 of them, and they're very different. The second paragraph of Section 6 says that the Estonian flag is raised on flag days by state and local government institutions and legal entities governed by public law. The first paragraph of § 4 of the same Act also states that everyone has the right to raise and use the Estonian flag, following the provisions of this Act and good practice. It also states that we have three very important days of independence, the day of victory and the day of restoration, when the flag will certainly be raised in residential, commercial and office buildings. So, as the previous speaker has already said, everyone has the right to raise and use the Estonian flag, so this year it can also be raised on April 23rd, Veteran's Day. It must be said that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs unanimously supported this amendment. There has been no dispute between the parties on this matter. On 8 April, the Commission also reviewed this draft, among other important points, and it must be said that we then discussed whether it would theoretically be possible to process the draft in such a way as to ensure the entry into force of the law by 23 April 2014. We didn't find that possibility, the time limit had already been exhausted. It was already said here that the draft was launched on 19 February 2014 and only by 25 March we received the position of the Government of the Republic, which was, of course, positive. The law does not permit the draft to be sent to the Riigikogu for first reading unless the opinion of the Government of the Republic is known. For this reason, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs could not act as quickly as we would have liked. If it is necessary, I can pass on here either the Committee on Constitutional Affairs or the Government's apologies as co-rapporteur of the draft I am certainly entitled to. But back to business. At its meeting, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs heard Lauri Vahtre, representative of the National Defence Committee, explain that Veteran Day is part of Estonian Veteran Policy and is considered very important for quite a number of reasons. We found that there are two options for further processing of the draft: either to move along a narrower road and to discuss only the section on Veteran Day transformation into flag day, or to deal with the flag law more broadly. There were two opinions in the Commission, but the general view was finally that we would not open a wider debate on the amendment of the flag law in relation to this draft, even though it might require other regulation. Today, the previous speaker was also asked questions about certain problems. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs proposes that the first reading be concluded today. It was a consensual decision. The deadline for tabling amendments shall be 10 working days, which shall be submitted no later than 5.15 p.m. on 30 April. We are waiting for amendments only on what this draft specifically deals with, not more broadly on the amendment of the flag law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U27	Thank you. Please, Kalev Lillo, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U28	Thank you. Dear waitress, I'm a little embarrassed. Mr Vahtre, and you too, call for the flag law not to be discussed more widely, but only to be turned into the flag day of Veteran's Day. I accept that. On the other hand, Mr Andrus pointed out the specific concern about the flag day, which is quite topical, and I myself have been exposed to it. How, then, can we proceed so that the disputed issues can be put on the table and discussed and, if necessary, amended the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U29	I think it would be useful if we were to deal with other possible amendments to the flag law outside the draft procedure concerning Veteran Day. However, this should be the subject of a separate draft. In this case, everyone will be able to highlight problems and possible questionable practices or two ways of understanding. But maybe at first glance, there's a lot of problems in the law. At the same time, some changes can be made to any law to make it clearer, more understandable and easier, and why not also in the Estonian Flag Act. However, yes, in my opinion it would be more appropriate to do so with a separate draft, it is not worth burdening this particular draft more widely.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U30	Thank you. Please, Mati Raidma!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U31	Thank you very much. To help the previous questioner: this is how we can proceed, that the Commission initiates a draft which amends some kind of law. Just like the National Defence Committee did with the wish to amend § 6 of the Flag Act. The second option is that the second reading will be interrupted as this draft goes further. But I would like to take down all these ambitions of the two committees during the procedure of the draft. The National Defence Committee decided to make an appeal next week so that the flags would still be raised in Estonia that day. A common understanding and friendship could prevail between the two committees. I am asking if the Committee on Constitutional Affairs could join our appeal. It would give society a clear signal.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U32	Thank you, good questioner! I am convinced that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, like all the other committees of the Riigikogu, agrees with this initiative. As I said before, there was no political dispute between the political parties represented in Parliament on this issue, and I am absolutely convinced that neither will it come. Our Estonian Defence Forces veterans must be respected!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U33	Thank you very much. No further questions for the rapporteur. Let's open the negotiations. Please, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U34	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, We are living in a world that has shown us very clearly in recent months that woes and conflicts have not disappeared. And that is why I am extremely pleased that Estonia has chosen the path it has chosen in its national defence. One small nation has the right to straighten its back and say that I have done almost everything to ensure that events that have struck Estonia in history will never happen again, even though quite difficult confrontations are taking place with our closest neighbours. There has been much debate in society about whether we are obliged to participate in military missions outside Estonia. It is much easier to assure ourselves that these are not our wars, they are not our conflicts, we are not concerned by all of this. We must be extremely grateful for the fact that the debates that have taken place between politicians have remained very constructive and substantive and that society has clearly supported politicians. Almost no one has opposed populist foreign missions. It would not be very difficult to make it clear to the people that, for example, what is happening in Afghanistan does not concern Estonia. That would be very easy to make clear, and that is probably what they want to believe. I repeat, we have behaved wisely. I am sincerely pleased that there is at least one thing in which very clear cooperation and cooperation is possible in Estonian society. One important component of all of this is the people who, as we send them, have been through the meat grinders. Their subsequent reintegration into society and their support in every way is our sacred task. When the veteran policy was developed, the terms were discussed first. We've come to recognize that there is no better term than a veteran. From there we went on, and now a very constructive veteran policy has been developed, in which the point to i could be to announce Veteran Day as the flag day. That is why I call on all the decision-makers that we do not go very far now with the analysis of the Estonian Flag Act. Let's do this flag day! Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U35	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U36	If we want to change something else in the flag law, for example, to argue whether the Estonian flag should fly 24 hours in Long Hermann, or we will stick to lowering and lifting it every day, then we will do so at another time. But let's put a stop to this i, call it Veteran's Day Flag Day! Because never before have we had to focus so much on how society is increasingly involved in national defence. Believe me, everything that is happening in Ukraine can happen someday somewhere else, which is even closer to us than Ukraine. A soldier on the front line, when shot at, no longer fights for ideas. He no longer struggles with the desire to support the government of his country and does not think about the Parliament that has sent him on this mission. The soldier looks at the comrade next to him and fights for him. The comrade next to him also looks aside and fights for comrades on both sides. And then, when these men, and perhaps the women, have returned, we must behave as their principle guides them: no one is left behind in battle. We're not leaving anyone behind either. And that's why we have no right to discuss whether a veteran is good or bad. We've sent our soldiers to conflict stations ourselves. This has been the right decision, because Estonia is much better protected thanks to these men and women than some other countries that do not belong to NATO or the European Union. I think this gives the people of Estonia reason to respect these people and to have the courage to contribute personally to Estonian national defence. Let us make wise decisions further, let us ourselves and invite our neighbours, friends and loved ones to join the Defence League. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U37	Thank you very much. Any more calls? No requests, I'll close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 597. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft. a on April 30, at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U38	Our next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Land Tax Act, which extends the land tax exemption for homeowners, initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. To present the speech chair of the member of the Riigikogu Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U39	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll give you a briefing on the bill bearing number 596. This is a draft law amending the Land Tax Act, which extends the land tax exemption for homeowners. First of all, a few words about the current situation. In particular, negotiations were launched in the first half of 2011 and a draft was reached at some point which exempted homeowners from land tax. The exemption entered into force on 1 January 2013. From that date homeowners will be granted relief in a densely populated area of 1500 m2 and in a distributed area of two hectares. Certain conditions must be met if the home owner wants to benefit from the exemption. Firstly, the land must belong to the same person who wishes to benefit from the tax exemption. Second, there must be a dwelling on this land. Third, a person must be registered to the same address according to the population register. If these conditions are met, the home owner will be able to obtain a land tax exemption. As I said, the border on densely populated areas is 1500 m2 and the spread area is two hectares. The Act entered into force on 1 January 2013. Since then, some facts have been revealed. The facts that we want to talk about today in the context of this bill are as follows. The draft law under discussion extends the law on the exemption of homeland in two respects. One block of topics relates to co- and joint owners, while the other relates to countries with a combined destination. What do I mean by that? In particular, when we adopted the Land Tax Exemption Act, we provided that co-owners and joint owners are jointly entitled to exemption in a densely populated area of 1500 m2 and a distributed area of two hectares. However, in the case of apartment ownership, where natural persons are formed as owners of apartments, for example in the case of building associations, a separate relief of 1500 m2 can be granted for each such apartment ownership. We analysed the situation and the question was also addressed to the Chancellor of Justice. The Chancellor of Justice also addressed the Supreme Court, who asked the Riigikogu for an opinion on the constitutionality of § 11 (3) of the Land Tax Act. Landowners also asked the administrative court to discuss in constitutional terms whether the owners had been treated differently or not. In the Riigikogu, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs dealt mainly with this issue, which analysed whether there are property owners on one side for different types of property and whether there are inequalities on the other side for just co- and joint owners. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs considered that, in principle, there should not be a different attitude to property and took the view that, in principle, this provision could also be amended. The topic was also raised in the Constitutional Review College of the Supreme Court, as the Administrative Court took a similar position, suggesting that different forms of property may be a breach of the Constitution. The Constitutional Review College of the Supreme Court heard the opinion of the Chancellor of Justice and the Administrative Court and finally took the view that the combined effect of the Constitution is really an obstacle. At the same time, it was found that this barricade was not such that the law definitely needed to be amended. If politicians want to do this, if the legislator wants to do it, then there is an opportunity. But in itself, it is not such a sting that it requires any change in the law. The second topic that arose was the land of a compound destination. Indeed, when on 1 January 2013 the exemption from the tax on domestic land became applicable, people were exempted from the land tax on residential land according to certain parameters in a densely or diffusely populated area. The situation was that people who lived on a property with a larger house on the first floor with commercial premises, such as a barbershop or shop, and about 20 to 30% of the house was under commercial premises, discovered that they paid land tax proportionally, as envisaged for commercial land. They had done so before, but the ordinary man had not noticed that when he bought the land, he bought part of the business land and part of the residential land by signing a contract with the notary. In previous times, there was no differentiation between commercial land and residential land in that sense, that commercial land was taxed at a higher percentage and the residential land was taxed at a lower percentage. Neither was the land tax exempt from housing, so the person did not pay attention to it. He had always paid land tax for partly commercial land and partly residential land. However, residential land was now exempted from the tax on the land under home and commercial land was exponentially raised to higher levels in local governments. People began to realize that they were also paying for business land that they had once bought. Really, they didn't have anything to do with this business land, even though they never made the relevant notarial contract. These people do not benefit from a barbershop or shop, but they are forced to pay a proportionally higher land tax when living in a particular house. In this context, we, the IRL and the Reform Party, in fact in our working group just took part in the development of the first Land Tax Exemption Act, and the Reform Party agreed that we would come up with this amendment. We come up with an amendment whereby people living on a plot of land, some of which are used as commercial land, would be exempted from land tax, but still only 1500 m2. The limit is the same: 1500 m2 for dense settlements and two hectares for diffuse settlements. They will not be exempted from more square meters. But within 1500 m2, they would benefit from an exemption, regardless of whether it is a residential, commercial or other purpose of the land. It would also be a fair game from the point of view of landowners who do not have residential land. We'll take two lots. One is 100% residential land, the other has a ratio of 70 to 30. The plots are the same size, side by side. At present, one owner receives full exemption, the other pays part of the land tax due to the combined destination. That is why we have prepared two kinds of changes. Firstly, we want to change the land tax exemption for homeowners in such a way that, in future, it will also apply to joint and co-owners individually and not jointly. Secondly, we would like the owner to be exempted from the land tax if the land of a compound destination, including residential land, is involved, even if there are other destinations other than the land of the home. But yes, there would certainly be no exemption for all destinations above 1500 m2 in total. That is the purpose of our bill. The bill also provides for expenditure, which cannot be over or over. And that's a subject you always have to talk about. When the tax exemption for domestic land entered into force on 1 January 2013, before that, the legislator, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and the tax administration, prepared the relevant calculations. I'm talking about the law that's in force right now. It was then estimated that an additional EUR 13 million would be left in the pocket of homeowners. The land tax was and is a state tax. A national tax means that, in itself, there is no obligation on the legislator to compensate for anything if it does not consider it right and if the recipient has not foreseen these revenues in his budget. In 2013, the law came into force last year, and if the legislator did not want to compensate for the change, it should not have done so. However, already during the draft procedure, the legislator announced that it would be willing to compensate local authorities for the loss of revenue. After all, this is, on the one hand, a positive situation from a people's point of view, and they are left with real money in their pockets. For local authorities, however, this clearly represents a major problem. If someone's left something in their pockets, someone else is missing it. In this way, agreement was reached and it was already confirmed during the procedure of the draft that the state would certainly compensate the local authorities for the change, and the coalition, which was the main proponent of the draft law, also fulfilled its promise. Subsequently, a new amendment was introduced which allowed local authorities to compensate for the change in the law in 2013 and 2014 by increasing the percentage of personal income tax allocated to them: from 11,4% in 2013 to 11,57%, in 2014 it was further increased by 0,03%. Now we have to make estimates of what the current situation is. It has been calculated that the legislative changes we are talking about today would cost an amount of EUR 1.5 million. Since this is two amendments, this amount is divided into EUR 1,2 million and EUR 350000 for co-owners and joint owners in the case of the combined destination countries. The estimates so far also show that the decision taken previously to increase the percentage of personal income tax allocated to them to strengthen the income base of local governments is likely to have ensured more than this loss of income by today. But it certainly needs to be checked during the procedure of the draft law. This was a brief summary of our bill. Once this law is passed, the injustice that we see today in the treatment of co-owners and owners of apartment property, as well as people living on land for a compound purpose and people living only on residential land, will be reduced if it does not completely disappear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U40	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U41	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! All the time in this Chamber and in the rest of Parliament when the land tax on homeowners has been autopsied, I have tried to follow this debate. But, unfortunately, I do not understand why we are trying to make this law wider at national level all the time. In principle, this money is received by the local government. Perhaps it would be sufficient for us to set some limits over which the land tax should not be exceeded, and let the local government decide how much it will tax. Does he want people living there, how he likes them and their home appreciates it should be a municipal matter. Why are we trying to make some kind of discount to one and the other here and then compensate the municipality for it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U42	Thank you. That is a good question, and we debated these issues quite strongly when we called for the land tax exemption for homeowners in 2011. I don't mind opening this debate again. This is a fundamental question of whether we appreciate and support people who have acquired homes for themselves. It is true that, given that the maximum rate of land tax imposed by the municipality is 2.5% of the price for taxing the land and that, if homeowners were not exempted from the land tax, they would, in essence, buy their homeland once more in 40 years. Yet, they have already bought it out of someone once. Finally, we could reach a situation where the land tax is so large that people are forced to move out of their homes. I will take the example of a pensioner who has lived all over the city centre on Tatari Street or, for example, in Nõmme. His land tax may be so large that he is forced to move out of his home. I don't think that's right. And it's not just my opinion, it's a lot of other people's opinion. In this context, we came up in 2011 with a draft aimed at reaching a situation where a person must define where his home is. For example, if someone has more than one place of residence, a home, a cottage somewhere, etc., he or she must define which one of them will be registered in the population register as his or her place of residence. And then we also defined this 1,500 m2 that's the average plot size. I think it might also be a point of dispute if someone wants to argue about it. We found this is the right direction. If we force people to change their place of residence with tax policy, it is not the right policy. At the time, a majority in Parliament supported this.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U43	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U44	Thank you. Good colleague! The Bill states that the date of entry into force of the Act is 1 January 2015. But if this is as nice a change as you're saying, then we could put 1 July there this year. We'll be ready by Midsummer Day.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U45	Good question, thank you! Of course, I would like to say in return that you should show me a law that is not good. Everyone's a good law. Why else would we have adopted it? They increase the well-being of people in society in one way or another. However, the reason why we should not put this law into effect from 1 July is that the Anno Domini 2014 is being taken into account by local authorities as a basis of income calculated in accordance with the current Act. If this 1.5 million euros were to be distributed to all 200 and a little more rural municipalities, then there would be some relatively small amount for each rural municipality, but they have taken this income into account. For this reason, it is correct to talk anyway from 1 January 2015. Another reason is that, as of 1 January or, let's say, 31 December, the payment of land tax is fixed If property is bought and sold later in a year, nothing changes in terms of land tax, the status of the New Year will always be fixed. In this context, I think it is right to set 1 January 2015 as the date of entry into force.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U46	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U47	Thank you. Home is, of course, sacred. However, how has it been possible that if a foreign citizen buys a house in the centre of Tallinn, the Estonian state will also give him a gift that does not even charge land tax? As I understand it, this advantage would also extend to foreign companies that have to pay land tax on the first floor of apartment buildings. Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U48	Thank you. There were two questions and I will answer them very specifically. First, if a foreigner comes to Estonia, see, he must meet certain conditions in order to receive a land tax concession. First, the plot must have a residential building and it must be owned by it, whether it is the owner of the entire building or part of it. And what's very important is that his place of residence must be that place, according to the population register. If these conditions are met, it does not matter whether the owner is Estonian or of any other nationality. If these criteria are met, the person will also pay taxes to the local government. Now the second part of the question. You asked whether commercial land owners with commercial premises on the first floor of the apartment building would benefit from a tax credit. It doesn't. It only extends to natural persons. For example, if there is a house with 70% of the land belonging to residential land and 30% of commercial land, if this change is accepted, the person who lives in that house as a "just resident" will be exempt, but he who uses commercial land acting in the house will now pay 100% of the commercial land tax and will continue to pay in the future. He will not benefit under any circumstances.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U49	Thank you. Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U50	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, When I listened to your answers, I wondered what your statement 'Everyone is good law' means. It is known that the Riigikogu also adopts the law of delinquency.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U51	Thank you. I have always tried at different stages of the procedure of the drafts, mainly during the state budget procedure, to provide opportunities for new questions. I'm sure the old folks know it, I've done it knowingly, to offer a debate. But I am now trying to stay within the framework of this bill, not to interpret what the law is and what the good laws are. I think we're doing everything we can, good Andres, so the Riigikogu doesn't pass the breaking laws.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U52	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U53	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U54	I would like to ask for a co-presentation of the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, Mr Vasiliyev.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U55	The Commission discussed this draft on 8 April. As in this Chamber today, the initiators of the draft were represented by Sven Sester, who presented the draft and answered the questions of the Members of the Commission. As a representative of the Ministry of Finance, Tanel Ruusmaa, chief specialist of the Tax Policy Department, also answered questions from the members of the Commission. There were broadly three topics in the debate. The first was how local authorities are compensated for less tax revenue. The initiators replied that it was decided to compensate the local authorities for the exemption from the tax on the land under their domestic law by increasing the percentage of income tax they would receive and that, as a result, the total amount received is allegedly already higher than the amount of money lost as a result of the exemption from the land tax. Perhaps then it can be said that municipalities have received more revenue through the compensation mechanism than they missed due to the land tax exemption. The second topic was the land tax object, which was asked whether the land tax object was land or landowner. A specialist in the Ministry of Finance replied that in the case of land tax, the subject of the tax is still the land. If the emphasis is on use, it is more inherent in another tax called property tax. This does not exist directly in Estonia. The difference between these two taxes is a little tricky, isn't it? In other words, the logic of the land tax says that the land must still be taxed first and foremost, not the purpose of the land. And the object of the tax is the land, not the landowner. The third issue concerned possible consequences if the draft is adopted as a law. It was a question of whether this might increase the motivation to formalise several owners of the country. The originator admitted that this possibility exists. The explanatory memorandum also indicates the amount of the lower amount possible: it amounts to EUR 340000. The committee decided by consensus to propose to close the first reading of the draft, to put it on the agenda of the Riigikogu Hall today and to set ten working days for the amendments due to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, which means 30 April. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U56	No one expressed a direct political position, but, as I mentioned, the decision was consensual. This leads to the conclusion that no one opposed the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U57	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, In your speech, you said that the Commission's proposal is to conclude the first reading. Perhaps you'll enlighten us what the hindsaw was like? I mean, how much was in favour and how much was opposed and what was the party's perception of this draft, which actually reduces the home expenses of homeowners. This is certainly one of these measures. What was the position of the parties in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U58	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U59	Thank you. Mr President of the Commission. This draft law is currently on the table because the original law on the exemption of land under home country contained a breach. The homeowners lodged a complaint with the administrative court. However, if most people in their home have not had to pay land tax for it, those who live, for example, in an apartment that has commercial premises, have still had to pay the tax. They had to pay it last year and have received a land tax notification this year. How are they compensated for this failure afterwards? For two years, they have had to pay a tax which did not coincide with the idea of an exemption for the land under home.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U60	At least this draft does not provide for ex post compensation. The amendment will take effect once the law has been adopted and entered into force. The compensation mechanism is not directly mentioned in the draft; it was not an issue at the Commission meeting either. So there's no compensation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U61	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U62	Thank you. Mr Jürgen Ligi, Minister for Finance, has repeatedly spoken about land tax exemptions. How does the new coalition feel about this? Will such a land tax exemption continue to apply in the future, or will the new coalition amend this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U63	The views of the new coalition can be reflected in the coalition agreement, but the coalition agreement does not address this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U64	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U65	I am afraid that a relatively simplified response would be impossible to answer yes. It can certainly be admitted that the adoption of the draft law, as well as the exemption from land tax, generally reduces the costs that homeowners have to bear. But I have not seen any analysis of how the exemption of the land under home has affected Estonia's emigration. So I don't dare give you a yes or no answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U66	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U67	Thank you. Good colleague! Various organisations have approached the Riigikogu many times with this issue and these problems. My question is whether they were also invited to the committee meeting. Did they take part in this to discuss the bill we have on the tables in this big hall today?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U68	They were not present at the Commission meeting. However, yes, they have communicated their thoughts to us about this.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U69	Thank you. Please, Tõnis Palts, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U70	Dear waitress, As a result of your previous response, I ask whether you have seen a mathematical analysis of how increasing child support reduces emigration from Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U71	First of all, I don't think all analyses should a priori be mathematical. But, yes, at least they've tried to put together the analysis, but at least the material. Of course, regardless of any tax change, this is certainly a complicated task if we want to highlight clear links with emigration. However, there are tax changes and subsidies which can be expected to have a greater impact on emigration. But to be quite honest, I do not think that one concrete measure could solve the whole problem of emigration, which we unfortunately have very big. A complex of measures is needed where different measures have a role to play.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U72	Thank you. Please, Siim Kisler!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U73	Thank you. Honourable waitress! What is your assessment, as a representative of the Commission, of how quickly this draft will arrive at second reading and will be passed as a law in this Chamber? It would be good to know when homeowners could gain confidence that these changes will come into effect.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U74	Homeowners will have this confidence when the law is passed. What is going on with this draft was not discussed in the Commission, and I cannot answer it from here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U75	Thank you. Please, Sven Sester, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U76	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I was moved by the speech of the previous speaker. I mean, all this time, I've been in this hall, and I'm gonna be honest, and I'm gonna say one big scare, mostly by the Centre Party. People are always scared. Don't scare them! When the euro came, you said that it was over, that people would lose all their savings. When we dealt with the same tax exemption for the land under home years ago, you said that the local authorities would not receive any money, that the government had not promised anything, that everything had gone down long ago or that it had not, that it was about to go down. Don't scare me! If you noticed, the compensation for the tax exemption for the land under home came and was even higher than planned. If you look at the additional income base received by local authorities in comparison to the income tax foregone, after the tax exemption for the land under residence, it is even higher than planned. Don't scare me, ladies and gentlemen of the Centre Party! More than that. If you set priorities for a person, a family, then a local government, a state, a society, what do you put forward and what backwards? What kind of choices should we make? We lived for 50 years in a situation where the country was the first priority. We're changing our values, our first priority should be our family! Ladies and gentlemen, with this amendment, which we made a few years ago and which has entered into force today, we have created a situation in which a person does not have to move away from his native place of residence at one point because of fiscal policy decisions. Now we are extending this amendment. To say it's a dump isn't right. We are extending this change, feeling politically that we want to do it. As far as the Constitution is concerned, I repeat: the Supreme Court has said that the barrage that has arisen is not at the level that would force us to adopt this law. If he were to force us to do so, we would not have to hold a long political debate. Then the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, would say that we have to do this. There is no such situation at the moment, we have political will. For example, if we decide not to adopt this law, to delay it until March next year, then this option will exist. The Supreme Court has not said that you must accept it; there is no constitutional contradiction. Therefore, if we accept it, it is our own will in this Chamber, and that is what we should be guided by. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I think that this bill, when it becomes a law, will help our people. This is part of what we can call tax policy decisions in the context of lowering taxes on homeowners and people at all. So be good and really support this bill! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U77	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Rannar Vasiliev. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U78	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 596. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft. a on April 30, at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U79	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Before the change of government, we used to say that when the government came up with a bill that had a flaw in it, the law wasn't paid attention to it, the law was passed on the road roll method, and then the hand was lashed, that it didn't know who was so careless. I hope that the new government will be able to take a more responsible approach to lawmaking. But what am I talking about? I don't want to be generic or go back to a long way. For example, in August 2010, a law on the control of monopolies was passed, which led to an increase in the price of water in many small places. The list may be continued by the Debt Restructuring and Debt Protection Act, which was also adopted in autumn 2010. This cut off the Centre Party's draft, which, if it had entered into force, would have written off the loan to the bank on the transfer of the property acquired by mortgage. Unfortunately, at the time, our bill remained in the drawer and the draft coalition was adopted, which has not helped people in the case of home loans. Today we are going to correct the third draft law that was adopted despite the cull. This is the Land Tax Exemption Act for homeowners, which had been so wrong at the time of initiation that even the title of the draft had to be changed in the Commission. The faction of the Centre Party has repeatedly pointed out that the current law leaves homeowners in an unequal position. How, then, is the owner of the dwelling living in an apartment building with commercial premises on the first floor worse than the owner of the apartment who lives in a house where there is no commercial space? For some reason, the law adopted by the IRL and the Reform Party has just been taken into account. On 9 December last year, we made a similar request to Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. The reason was also that the homeowners had turned to the court for those who felt that they were being treated unequally. In reply to the question of what the Ministry of Finance is planning to do to solve these problems, the Minister said: 'The Ministry of Finance does not intend to change the law. If the Court really entrusts us with this task, then the state budget, but above all the municipal budgets, will receive less money again and then we will have to think about what to do with this tax exemption. " Thus, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi made it clear that, by giving voters such a gift before the election, it was decided to put local authorities in charge of paying off the gift. Jürgen Ligi referred to an important nuance in his reply: solving the tax exemption problems in terraced buildings and apartment buildings with a compound purpose means a reduction in the land tax due to local authorities. I would like to remind you here that the IRL and Reform Party already gave their voters a gift for the money of Estonian governments when they passed the law. Although the reduction in the income from land tax on paper was offset by an increase in the share of income tax on municipalities, in reality several municipalities lost due to this law. And basically, in 2009, the municipalities had been deprived of a very significant share of income tax. Now they gave it back a little bit, but they took away part of the land tax. This bill makes a correction for errors once again for municipal money. The explanatory memorandum to the draft proposal states in black that the initial estimate of the land tax for the compound destination solution is less than EUR 1.2 million and less than EUR 340000 in the form proposed to solve the problem of co-owners and joint owners. Yes, in a way, you can say that 1.5 million is nothing. But yesterday we had an inquiry here to answer, which revealed that the third largest city in Estonia, Narva, can only get 155000 euros to improve the road. So it is a significant amount of EUR 1.5 million for those cities that are now losing land tax in particular. I would be surprised if there really was a compensation mechanism attached to the draft. We share the view of the Ministry of Finance, which submitted its comments on the draft. The additional exemption from land tax on the land occupied weakens the income base and autonomy of local government units. The draft also runs counter to the recommendations of the OECD and the IMF to increase the share of land tax in tax receipts, as property taxes do not hold back growth and employment growth. We consider it important to improve the cull, but the inequality between municipalities must disappear. A compensation mechanism must be provided for in the draft, without which the failure cannot be corrected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U80	Thank you. Please, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U81	Thank you! The explanatory memorandum to the draft law states that in the preliminary assessment, a maximum land tax of EUR 1,2 million will be collected for a solution relating to a compound destination. It is known that housing that is located in houses where there is business space on the lower floor is located in very few Estonian municipalities. So this overall increase in the percentage of certain municipalities will not compensate for the loss of land tax. The explanatory memorandum allows the compensation mechanism to be clarified. Before adopting the bill as a law, will the damage to the budget be determined by municipalities?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U82	I can't answer that today, whether it's done before the bill is passed as a law or not. But certainly these issues will be dealt with and taken into account in the future. I dare to doubt that it is possible to come up with a very simple mechanism that distinguishes municipalities from the number of properties where both apartment property and commercial premises are concerned. I am not sure that there is a very simple way to distinguish between municipalities in this way, but in the course of the further processing of this draft, these issues will be raised and there will certainly be a debate about them.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U83	Thank you. Please, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U84	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress, I tell you, don't doubt it, make sure these calculations are done. There's not much of a problem there. My question is rather motivated by the question of a good colleague, Kadri Samson. He began his question by claiming that it was a law of malice. I would like to ask you, as co-rapporteur, if this is a cull. For some reason, Kadri Simson did not ask me as the main rapporteur, I would certainly have given him answers with more adequate and better estimates. But I specifically pointed out that the Constitutional Review College of the Supreme Court came to the conclusion that this is not a situation contrary to the Constitution. If we want to make decisions, they are political decisions that come from our will. This is not a cull from the point of view of the Constitution. Do you have any other data?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U85	No, I don't have any other data. But as far as doubt is concerned, I'd like to correct you. I have no doubt that there are calculations. However, there is doubt as to whether, on the basis of these calculations, it is possible to compensate for the loss of revenue to the municipalities by means of a reasonable system. This compensation mechanism has not been dealt with so far, and I therefore dare to express any doubt.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U86	Thank you. Please, Tõnis Palts!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U87	Dear waitress, Do you realise that the exemption from land tax for homeowners reduces the cost of homeowners and therefore indirectly affects emigration from Estonia? No or yes would satisfy me.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U88	Our third item today is the first reading of draft 634 of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the decision of the Riigikogu 'Construction of a Special Committee against Corruption' submitted by the Social Democratic Party Group. For a presentation, please address a member of the Riigikogu Kalev Kotkas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U89	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The submission of the draft Riigikogu decision 634 is due to the fact that two of our good colleagues from the Special Committee against Corruption - Andres Anvelt and Helmen Kütt - have moved into government membership. The Social Democratic Party Group, as the initiator of the draft decision, proposes that Mr Rein Randver and Mr Helmen Allik be replaced by Mr Andres Anvelt as members of the Special Committee against Corruption, and Mr Kalev Kotkas be replaced by Mr Rein Randver. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U90	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Kalev Eagle! I would like to speak with Väino Linde, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U91	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Constitutional Affairs supported this draft and did so at its meeting on 8 April. Our position is indeed consensual: to propose that the first reading of this draft be stopped. By the deadline for tabling amendments, we also set 17 April at 5.15 p.m. by consensus. If everything goes well and the first reading is finished, we have a proposal to send this matter to the second reading by 23 April. That's right. I will not repeat the substance of the draft, as the previous rapporteur has already opened it thoroughly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U92	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Väino Linde! Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 634. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft. 17 April at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U93	Our fourth item today is the first reading of the draft law amending the European Parliament Election Act and other laws initiated by Riigikogu member Andres Herkel. Mr Andres Herkel, member of the Riigikogu, will present the speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U94	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I submitted the draft law amending electoral laws to the Riigikogu on 15 January exactly three months ago, the content of which is that the new political mandate received automatically cancels the previous one. This means that from the moment a member of the European Parliament has been elected to the Riigikogu, he can no longer be a member of the European Parliament, and when a member of the Riigikogu has been elected to the council, he can no longer be a member of the Riigikogu from that moment. And vice versa, of course. This is the first attempt to resolve the preposterous situation that has existed since 2005, where we do have the principle of inconsistency of mandates, but politicians are able to step up as a decoy duck, or a so-called decoy duck, without actually going to adopt the mandate. This has led, among other things, to the fact that the Tallinn Council consists mainly of alternate members with a weak mandate. They are not even given the opportunity to come out of the shadow of their voice or voice mother on Toompea; they are always dependent on the potential of someone else's voice. The previous composition of the Tallinn Council, by the way, even ended with 53 out of 79 members being alternate members. No wonder, then, when such a council, its meaning is marginalized. To a lesser extent, the same problem exists in other major municipalities. We have therefore come to a situation where the withdrawal of a mandate is a normal course of action, not a deplorable exception. How did this happen? However, I believe that decoy ducks themselves often do not want to be decoy ducks, but party-political pragmatics forces such logic. An alternative solution to the problem is the so-called two-chair bill, which was presented less than two months ago by the Social Democrats. This means returning members of the Riigikogu to local councils. However, I would point out that two chairs, or the reconciliation of mandates, have previously been challenged in Estonia under the Constitution. The Chancellor of Justice, Allar Jõks, has done so most strongly in his time, referring to the violation of the principle of autonomy of local government and the principle of separation of powers and conflicts of interest. The practice of EU countries is rather diverse in terms of combining mandates or inconsistency. The solution I have proposed is most similar to the law in force in Latvia. There are also clauses that the new mandate cancels the previous mandate, the mandate of the local council cancels the mandate of the seven. I would like to highlight some practical considerations as to why it is right to stick to the inconsistency of mandates and to resolve the problem of decoy ducks in the way proposed in the draft. The current situation with decoy ducks, which has lasted ten years, is the worst of all possible. This does not mean, however, that allowing members of the Riigikogu back into councils is a good solution. I admit that ten and more years ago, the experience of members of the Riigikogu could have been of great help in local councils. However, I repeat here a classic saying: ladies and gentlemen, I used to think that, but I don't think that anymore. In the meantime, society has grown more mature, and there are many more people able to participate in local councils. The best thing is to give them a chance to open up. I agree with Academician Jüri Allik, who considered the coalition's main objective in Postimees on 7 April to optimise the results of the next elections. I quote: 'I guess I am not satisfied with the results of the 2013 local elections, which lost a lot of votes, in particular, to the electoral alliances. ' After long-term and foolish failures in municipal policy, it might be time for political parties to give up the top-down management of the local level at all. Local issues are not party-political in nature. They can also be resolved by civil society and electoral associations, and no one can prohibit political party members from cooperating with them. Thus, the incompatibility of mandates contributes to the decentralisation of power, which is now an important and topical problem in Estonia, and to the disintegration of clumsy verticals of power. Now let me also briefly address the position of the Government of the Republic. Cicero could say that the letter does not blush, or the paper suffers everything. There is, however, one comment that I admit to be correct. Indeed, the draft explanatory memorandum does not open one important point, according to which, if elected, candidates will be allowed to become a member of the local council, Riigikogu or the European Parliament, respectively. That is the kind of promise that this bill provides, among other things. A promise made with a self-indulgence is a weird break. Yes, failure to comply with this promise will not be followed by direct sanctions, but cheating on voters so directly will certainly not benefit any politician. Of course, there are also compelling excuses, such as the state of health or the adoption of the ministerial portfolio after the elections of the Riigikogu. The government is trying to argue that the proposed solutions are incompatible with the Constitution. It is said that a passive right to vote cannot include an obligation to exercise the mandate. It is also said that a member of the Riigikogu cannot be transferred to the local council because of his election, as it is doubtful whether the mandate of a member of the council can be regarded as another state office in which taking up is the basis for the early termination of the mandate of a member of the Riigikogu. I reject these complaints here. The right of politicians to deceive the electorate cannot be considered sacred and untouchable. How can it be that the electorate can be deceived, but there are no restrictions on the right of politicians to do so? Defrauding the decoy ducks deeply undermines the credibility of the policy as a whole and, consequently, the measures proposed in my draft are appropriate and proportionate. The government's opinion is drawn up in such a tonality that the two-chair bill has already been adopted and announced, but that is certainly not the case. If the provisions concerning the incompatibility of mandates are to be removed from Estonian law, this requires constitutional dispute. This is most clearly referred to by an overview of the activities of the Chancellor of Justice in 2005, where there is a relatively long summary of the nature of the problem. It also treats the local council's mandate as a state office and sees a conflict with the role of a member of the Riigikogu. Leaving a further legal dispute on these issues to lawyers, I will, in conclusion, emphasise two simple and understandable principles. First, sitting on a chair is better than sitting on two chairs or pushing on two chairs. Moreover, it extends the scope of democracy, for which Estonian society is fully prepared. Secondly, decoy ducks must be stopped. It should be just as deplorable as sports doping. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U95	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U96	Dear waitress, You have raised a very important problem. But as we can see, a large majority of voters still choose well-known people, well-known faces. Does it not seem to you that if we now create a situation where local government leaders, officials, district elders have the right to stand as candidates and political parties who are not in power in this local government can oppose them, not worse, but significantly less well-known to the public, then one of the undesirable consequences of your draft may be to secure the power of the forces that are currently in power in one local government or another? Of course, we are talking about larger municipalities, because all your talk in the pathos is actually about Tallinn and Tartu, 60 of our colleagues are currently elected to councils and we have 214 councils in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U97	Thank you. Your question could probably be reworded as to why the Centre Party supports this bill. It is perhaps based more on interests than on principles, because this is the case in Tallinn today. But I think that the systemic approach to policy rules and the introduction of these rules in such a way that society is sustainable is certainly more permanent than the authority of one party. I therefore ask for this draft to be supported on the basis of principles. The state finances political parties in Estonia, as we know, in a very luxurious way, more than in other countries of the European Union, and I see no reason why these parties should not be able to grow a new political elite. Secondly, as I said, I personally believe that the role of electoral associations and civil society organisations at local level should be much greater. This decoy duck problem is quite certain to inhibit their emergence.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U98	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U99	Thank you. Good colleague! In the last election, I got into the Kohtla-Järve Council and suspended my mandate. If I don't turn out to be elected to the Riigikogu in March next year, I will be practically excluded from the political life of Kohtla-Järve for two years. Do you think it is right that people who have experience in the Riigikogu are not only talking about themselves, but also other colleagues who may find themselves in a situation where they are essentially excluded for two years?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U100	Thank you. I don't think political life is anything that doesn't involve risks. If you choose to waive the second mandate in the elections, then you will be consciously going to exercise the authority's mandate. You obviously did not address it that way in the previous elections, but this would be the case in the future on the basis of this draft. Politics consists of taking risks and it has not been said anywhere that a politician, falling out of the Riigikogu, must necessarily have some sort of substitute office. With other jobs and even marriage, it's not like you're signing a new contract, but the old one will remain in force just in case this new one doesn't work out. Why, then, must politicians have such privileges?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U101	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U102	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, With your bill, of course, a little undercover, you're trying to show that the voter is stupid. What makes you think the voter is stupid? If this is about decoy ducks, what are you so afraid of, then the voter knows it very well. If he votes for a person you call a decoy duck, he will do so knowingly supporting one party or another. Why do you not want the voter to be able to decide for himself, but you want to take part in the decision from him by law and show that the voter is not smart enough to make his own decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U103	Thank you. There were a number of wrong assumptions on this issue. First of all, I don't think the voter is stupid. I think the voter is poorly informed. Secondly, on the contrary, I want to give the electorate the power of decision and remove the right to cheat from the parties that draw up lists. So both of your starting assumptions are wrong here. Unfortunately, Estonia has developed in such a way that voters do not perceive very clearly what the political responsibility of one or the other person carrying out the mandate or who does not accept the mandate is. Unfortunately, we have probably shaped this practice here ourselves over the years. I think it is possible with this draft to take a step towards clearer political responsibility, where people simply have to make these decisions. If the voter looks at the electoral list, it has not been written that Kalev Kallo does not go to the council that he is currently a member of the Riigikogu. This information does not accompany the ballot bulletin when the voter goes into the booth. So if we could do this preliminary work, then the voters could be sure that those on the electoral list can and will indeed go to the council.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U104	Thank you. Please, Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U105	Thank you. Good waitress! I understand that presenting this bill is a kind of public penance. If we look at the participation of local governments and the Riigikogu in the elections, since 1995 you have participated in all the elections, with the exception of the 2004 European Parliament elections. Really, in 2013, when your path broke up with the party you've been in for a long time, you didn't participate in the local elections either. Interestingly, too, with absolutely every choice, your vote has improved. This confirms that although the voter had to be well informed that you were part of the political nomenclature, he still thought you were worth a better vote. Your practice runs counter to the bill we're talking about. Can you tell us in which country, apart from Latvia, this version is being implemented and what is the real result of Latvia's adoption of such a law?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U106	Thank you for meeting my political career, dear questioner. However, I must point out that in the 2005 local elections it was impossible to expect the Supreme Court to make a decision when standing as candidates. So you can't take it as a reproach. Please forgive me, but in 2009, I was guided by the fact that I could operate in the North-Tallinn administration, and that is what I did. Today, the meaning of administrative councils under the leadership of the Centre Party in Tallinn has been so marginalized that this activity does not make any important sense anymore. It is regrettable that this problem will be addressed ten years later. What is the situation in other countries? I cannot generalise Latvia's experience; I do not have enough representative and reliable data on this. But the Latvian law is indeed very similar to what I propose. I have had a survey taken out of the countries of the European Union. It must be acknowledged that this practice, whether or not ministers and Members can belong to municipal councils, is very different. There are a little more countries where this is allowed. This is evidently due to national decisions-laws, including the constitutional system. In Spain, for example, it is prohibited by certain exceptions, Britain is allowed, Greece is forbidden, but it is possible to stand as a candidate, but there are no lists of political parties in local elections. It is forbidden in the Netherlands, but the representatives of the local governments are in the Senate, in the House of Lords of the Parliament. Germany is allowed, but the practice is not very common. Portugal is authorised with derogations. In Italy it is prohibited, with the exception of small municipalities, those with fewer than 5 000 inhabitants. It is prohibited in Ireland, prohibited in Poland, authorised in Finland, authorised in Belgium, authorised in Luxembourg, authorised in Switzerland, prohibited in Lithuania, prohibited in Latvia, etc. Very grateful material. I think it's worth looking at these details in more detail than I have in here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U107	Thank you. Please, Jaak Allik, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U108	Thank you. Good waitress! You certainly agree that many of our colleagues are worthy and experienced people in managing local authorities. And then it would be good if they had a mandate to do so, as colleagues Aadu Black and Kajar Lember did. But in this case, there is always a risk in your bill, there may be an opposition on the list, and then we will shut down a capable politician from practical political life at all, because there is not much to do in the opposition of local government. I will give a concrete example of Narva, where Jevgeni Ossinovski applied and received the highest number of votes in the elections, and he also applied for mayor, but he was not elected. If your bill were in force right now, he should just sit in Narva on the back of the opposition and do nothing very useful. How do you comment on this situation? Would that be the best solution for Estonia's political life?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U109	Thank you. I do not think that it would be useless to act in the opposition. Nor do I assume that the Socialist Party has now gone from a phase to a useful phase. I assume that the work you have done in this opposition will be useful and the opposition will also be very useful to the Narva Council. Yes, there is probably a small problem here, but I would still recommend that the political parties, above all on the ground, raise those political leaders who are doing a commendable job for the opposition. The fact that one person went to run the Tartu City Council and the other to run the Tartu City Government is in itself great. I guess that's where these choices need to be made.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U110	Thank you. Please, Jüri Morozov!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U111	Honourable waitress! Two conflicting positions emerged from your report. On the one hand, you said that ten years ago you supported two chairs and that was then justified because the competence of local councils was small. However, you said that if the mother and father ducks are sitting on Toompea and their alternates are specifically sitting on the Tallinn Council, the quality of the council will suffer. So what is your position now? Is the competence of local authorities still poor, or is it good?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U112	Thank you. I think there is no contradiction here. As I pointed out, these things will definitely change over time. Obviously, the requirements that we impose on politics and politicians are also changing over time. In time, among other things, there was a change in the dispute that two chairs were contrary to the principle of autonomy of the municipality, etc. It was only in 2002-2005 that this issue arose when these disputes were opened. Actually, I think society's been cooking all along. Municipalities have become larger, among other things. This grey matter is certainly so much in society to play these roles, and I believe that the so-called second echelon of political parties I would not want to use this word would be able to mature much faster if this voiced father or voice mother were not in front of a decoy duck in this form.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U113	Thank you. Kalev Kallo, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U114	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, When you answered my first question, you tried to disprove my assumptions, said they were wrong. However, some sentences continued to confirm these assumptions, saying that the voter does not perceive whether or not it is a decoy duck. On the contrary, I assure you that the voter will perceive. On what basis do you confirm that the voter does not perceive? Do you have any in-depth studies that the voter doesn't perceive? You're also saying that the voter is stupid. I'm saying that the voter isn't stupid, and he senses very well what he's doing at the ballot box.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U115	Thank you. I don't have any sociological studies on this, and I don't think the voter is stupid at all. But the information that can go to the council and who cannot go is undoubtedly lacking in the electoral booth. Nor can it be assumed that all voters have made these matters 100% clear before. The voters usually do not have time for this. Perhaps in some versions it is perceived, certainly not for everyone. This information is not simply explicit.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U116	Thank you. Please, Indrek Saar, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U117	Thank you. Good waitress! Since you are probably able to use the website of the Republic Election Commission sufficiently well to understand that it is a myth that is being distributed, you have raised to the shield a respected professor who stated in the paper that he is probably dissatisfied with the results of the 2013 municipal elections, because many votes were lost to the electoral alliances. That was the content of the quote you used. Can you explain where it comes from and what is based on the understanding that the electoral alliances went better in 2013 than last time? When I do mathematics, I see that in 2013 the political parties received 76.6% of all the votes and 72.7% in 2009. So almost 4% of the votes were won, which is, on the contrary, a huge loss to the electoral alliances. Can you explain to me what your argument is based on?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U118	Thank you. First of all, it was not an argument, it was the argument of Mr Allik, and certainly almost 30% of the votes have been lost enough to attribute the fight for them in this way. But if you actually have another motive, you can come by after my presentation and discuss it with Academician Jüri Allik.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U119	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U120	Thank you. In my opinion, there is another risk of this draft, which has been little talked about, especially in the case of cities. We're about to become mayors of people who haven't gotten that mandate in local elections. Four political parties find four excellent mayor candidates and know very well that only one will become mayor. That's why they become mayor candidates without applying to the local council. Is it good if the local executive has not been a candidate for local elections?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U121	Thank you. This question can be considered entirely to reflect on it. In principle, one solution could be that the mayor is elected from among the elected council members. Today, we have a second and, in my opinion, also a bad practice, where people who, after they don't become mayor or when they don't have a real chance of becoming mayor candidates do not even go to the council.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U122	Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U123	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! There was a strange contradiction in what you said. You said that a bad party has made some work impossible in the North Tallinn administration and that your status there would be a waste, while Jevgeni Ossinovski's sitting in the opposition of the Narva City Council is not a waste. What is the reason for this? I don't think it's about the person. If this bill is passed, we could all be in a situation where you just run against the wall for years because you are in opposition and you will not be heard. Then it would be good if a person had an alternative.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U124	Thank you. The administrative body in Tallinn and the council in Narva are phenomena of completely different levels. I suggest you, if you have the power to convince the city government of the Centre Party a little bit, consider this option in order to give more functions to the administrative bodies. The approval of the plans is, in my opinion, the most important thing where local people should be able to contribute, so that not everything is decided through one centre, city administration and council, who raises his hand. Basically, I am of the opinion that the districts of Tallinn could be separate municipalities. But on this issue, the assumption is once again a little messy, the Narva Council certainly has status. Yes, I would argue that the status of Northern Tallinn and other parts of Tallinn has been brought to the final limit of marginalisation under the authority of the Centre Party. And I have to admit, the other municipal authorities have contributed a little.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U125	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U126	Thank you, Madam President. I actually like your bill, but I don't really understand what a decoy duck is. Is the minister who gets 29 votes in the local election decoy or decoy duck? It is, in fact, a very clear signal to this minister, I am not talking about a particular person, but in principle. Why should we avoid such a fine practice?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U127	Thank you. I'm sometimes eloquent, just like the press does. But when you noticed, I said, on several occasions, decoy ducks or so-called decoy ducks.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U128	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U129	Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U130	I request Mr Rein Lang, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as a co-presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U131	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. This draft was discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs at its regular meeting on 8 April. In this sense, it was a unique situation in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that the chairman was not present and was chaired by Vice-President Tarmo Tamm. On that day, Mr Kalev Lillo and Mr Urmas Reinsalu, a colleague named Erki Nool, also took part in the work of the Commission as an alternate member of Rait Marust. The originator explained in detail why he submitted this draft and what was the content of the draft. Since the initiator said exactly the same thing he said in this Chamber today, except for quoting Professor Jüri Allik, I am not going to repeat it. You quoted Professor Jüri Allik today in this Chamber probably because the article had not yet appeared at the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Now from the Commission's debate. First of all, I must say that there was no passion in the Commission as it was in this Chamber during the debate on this draft. People's ambassadors had apparently formed their views on the basis of the documents submitted, and the Minister of Justice, Kristen Kanarik, was mainly asked to clarify the position of the Government. Kristen Kanarik explained very calmly and constructively that the government, in this case in the Ministry of Justice, acknowledges that political culture is very important and that debate should continue in this respect, but the government does not consider it possible to support a specific draft because it is an anti-constitutional structure. When the representative of the government was then asked what was the specific nature of this unconstitutional question, Mr Väino Linde, in very direct form, Mr Väino Linde, said Kristen Kanarik, who represented the Ministry of Justice, said very directly that the bill was primarily violating passive electoral rights. The passive right to vote is a person's right to stand as a candidate in elections, and the passive right to vote will continue after the election. This position has been unambiguously expressed by the Supreme Court. If someone's mandate is terminated or the mandate is suspended, this is an infringement of passive voting rights. However, the author of the draft has not dealt with this in his draft or in his explanatory memorandum. In particular, Kristen Kanarik drew attention to the situation that the Constitution exhaustively lists the grounds for the end of the mandate of a member of the Riigikogu, and the basis that Mr Herkel describes in his draft does not appear in the Constitution, that is, the adoption of the ideology of this draft would actually mean the need to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. The question was also asked by Mr Erki Arrow. His question was that if such a prohibition had to come into force for members of the Riigikogu, should it not come into force for persons in other areas of life. In this regard, it became clear that the initiator had not thought that way. There was then a little debate about the situation that the Coalition Agreement really provided for the possibility of such two chairs being restored. The originator admitted that basically this solves the problem of decoy ducks, but not in the way he wants it to be. The debate had thus ended, and the representatives of the people had formed their views. Firstly, it was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 15 April, i.e. today (this was a consensual decision). Secondly, it was decided to appoint Rein Lang as rapporteur for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs (this was also a consensual decision). The vote then took place on the proposal to reject Mr Andres Herkel's draft. Eight members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, two against, no abstentions. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has therefore proposed to the Assembly that the draft be rejected.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U132	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U133	Thank you. Dear waitress, As I will probably not get the floor at first reading, I will raise this one aspect to which you referred in the case of the Act on the status of a member of the Riigikogu. This is because the Constitution does not provide grounds for early termination of the mandate, such as membership of a municipal council or of the European Parliament. However, both the Act on the status of a member of the Riigikogu and the Constitution include the establishment of another state office as a basis for the termination of powers, and the Chancellor of Justice has interpreted the membership of the local government council as another state office. In this case, is the contradiction to which you refer resolved by the fact that § 4 is excluded from the draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U134	Thank you. I could, of course, say very laconically that this debate did not arise in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. But this construction, that the office of a Member of the European Parliament is an Estonian state agency, is an extremely peculiar construction. It's the first time I've heard such a thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U135	No further questions. Thank you, Rein Lang! Let's open the negotiations. Indrek Saar on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U136	Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that we are in this debate, and I am also pleased to see that there are significant colleagues in the Chamber who are interested in the subject. There have been discussions on this topic in the Chamber, in committees, during the elections in the Buffet of the Riigikogu and in many other places oi-oi how many hours. And, in general, we know what colleagues' views are. I understand Andres Herkel's attempt to respond to the popular expectation of denying members of the Riigikogu something. On the other hand, I would remind you that the Riigikogu should be balanced in every way. It is not only about gender balance, but also about the fact that different regional aspects, different corners of Estonia, are represented here in addition to various interest groups. The organisation of the work of the Riigikogu, for example, has also meant that in the end there would not be 101 professional politicians residing in Tallinn, but people who come from different places who are familiar with local life. One important level of local life is local government. This is also how our neighbours in Finland, for example, interpret it and have interpreted it for decades. Most of the members of the Edukunna also work on the local government council. It's not sitting in two chairs. It is the same Estonian country. Yes, we can talk about the fact that executive power and legislative power are incompatible, but the Riigikogu and the local government council are at exactly the same level and this is the same chair. Here, the same Estonian thing is being carried out in some region, and information and experience are being brought together here in order to make the best-balanced regional decisions possible. I am absolutely convinced that if a member of the Riigikogu has even better experience of local government, if he finds the time and commitment to read the local government's budget and vote on how it gets together, discuss these things at the table, being himself responsible for meeting this budget, he will be considerably better informed about how the local government is doing. He is much more adequate to talk about issues such as administrative reform, not to mention many other details. That is why I am opposed to the populist call made by Mr Herkel here. Instead, I call for a vote in favour of a bill brought to this hall by the Social Democrats, which says that members of the Riigikogu can and should preferably find time to work at the local government council. So the Social Democrats certainly do not support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-15_U137	Thank you very much. Any more calls? No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject draft 577 at first reading. We have to vote through this. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting against the draft proposal of the commission 577 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 56 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 15 against and no abstentions. The draft has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, our agenda today is exhausted. I wish everyone a nice day and see you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 12.07 p.m.
