ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U1	Good fellows! Honourable Riigikogu! Good guests! Honourable diplomatic corps! We will begin the sixth Thursday session of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over the drafts or inquiries to the Riigikogu. I ask the Riigikogu to speak to Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu allow me to come to this panel in order to hand over one draft law with MP Juku-Kalle Raid. The purpose of this draft is to extend the democratic freedoms of Estonian political parties. We believe that they are limited in some respects. More specifically, the draft wishes to amend the electoral laws in such a way that the electoral alliances to be formed by political parties are allowed in both local and Riigikogu elections. It has been particularly strange to lose this opportunity in local elections. Apparently, it was caused by negligence ten years ago. This took place after a major dispute was held over the possibility of electoral alliances. We believe that this possibility could also be in the Riigikogu elections, as this would allow greater flexibility and cooperation at the level of the electoral federations. At present, if they want to put forward a common electoral list, political parties must inevitably join.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U3	Good waitress, I'm sorry! There's a lot of noise in the hall. Dear colleagues, I ask you to respect the waitress and those who wish to listen to the speaker. I'm asking you to give the performer ten more seconds!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U4	Thank you. I'll start over. Our aim is to extend the freedoms of political parties in the key to cooperation so that they can submit a joint list in the elections of both the Riigikogu and local government councils. I agree that this amendment would probably also require changes in the party law and in the Riigikogu law on home and working procedures, which we have not been able to prepare. We would also like citizens' electoral alliances to be possible in future elections to the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U5	I ask the Riigikogu to speak to Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased to discuss, on behalf of the Socialists, an inquiry to Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas on children's rights and child protection. The good news is that a new draft law on child protection has been drawn up as the fruit of long work, but unfortunately there are a number of shortcomings and shortcomings that should definitely be removed from there before the bill is adopted as a law. We all know that a child is protected by the best - managed family. The current Child Protection Act can be criticised for being overly declaratory. The draft focuses on children already at risk and does not address support for families and parenthood. Unfortunately, there has also been too much talk about prevention in general terms. Little attention is paid to the tasks of the municipal child protection officers, although the workload of their employees is increasing. However, the funds will not be allocated to local governments. The most strange thing is that the Minister of Finance did not coordinate this draft and found that the EUR 6.4 million needed for children is not available in the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U7	Thank you. Riigikogu speech chair Rainer Vakra, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U8	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Life has shown that the deeper you dig, the more you find. The Committee of Inquiry of the VEB Foundation of the Riigikogu has held 30 sessions and listened to 42 people today. In addition to the National Audit Office, we have included the Estonian Forensic Institute, which has carried out several handwriting and document surveys. All the skeptics who thought, or even hoped, that the VEB Foundation Research Committee would be set up in the Riigikogu to bury the subject, have been disappointed. It is clear today that the Committee of Inquiry will forward to the Public Prosecutor's Office the material relating to the falsified letter submitted to the Committee of Inquiry. I would stress that the forgery of the letter was only possible for the Estonian Forensic Institute to identify because we together extended the deadline for the Commission's activities. Otherwise, the Commission would have drawn conclusions on the basis of a falsified document, which would have been very regrettable in determining the truth. The VEB Fund Board has consistently emphasised that the Commission works in cooperation with the National Audit Office. In order for us to be able to use their audit results in our work, it is necessary to align the working time of the Commission with the audit schedule of the National Audit Office. On 25 February or the day before yesterday, the National Audit Office sent an official letter to the Research Committee of the VEB Fund, stating that the National Audit Office will change the deadline for the completion of the audit on the VEB Fund in its work plan, as the volume of operations required for the analysis of the basic materials of the audit has significantly increased compared to the original one. For information, 60000 pages have been worked out instead of the 20,000 pages initially planned. The Commission's aim is to examine all claims and documents. For example, only recently we discovered more than 20 files in SEB, each containing 500 pages of information that sheds light on the bank's predecessor.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U9	Good waitress, your time is up. Please hand over the draft decision!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U10	I didn't say one sentence. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U11	There's no more calls. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two drafts and one inquiry. According to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Let's go to the messages. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded the questioning of members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Education and Research Jaak Aavikkogu. Good fellows! On Monday, 3 March next week, the traditional Model will be held in this Chamber at the final event of the European Parliament forum. In this regard, I ask you to bring materials from your desks and drawers! Now we're going to do a presence check. 87 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 14.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U12	Let's start working on the items on today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of the draft law 549 on the amendment of the Commercial Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? We are not recommending negotiations; we can start preparing the final vote. Good fellows! Draft 549 requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu to be adopted as a law. Therefore, before the final vote, we will carry out a presence check. 87 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 14. I will put draft 549 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 85 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. Draft Act 549 on the amendment of the Commercial Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws has been adopted as a law. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U13	Let's move on to the second item. The third reading of the Act amending the Law on identity documents, state fees and state border law 550 initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I shall put a draft of 550 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 84 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. Draft 550 Act amending the Act on identity documents, state fees and state border law initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law. The second item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U14	Let's move on to the third item. The third reading of the Act amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and the Law on liquid fuel initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. We can go to the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 491 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 81 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. Draft 491 Act amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and the Law on liquid fuel initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law. The third item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U15	Let's move on to item number four. The third reading of the draft Act amending the Public Transport Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 499 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 61 members of the Riigikogu voted against and 1 against, with no abstentions. The draft law amending the Public Transport Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 499 has been adopted as a law. The fourth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U16	Let's move on to item five. The debate on foreign policy begins as a key national issue. Good fellows! Before we go to the debate, let me briefly present the procedure for discussing this item, which follows from § 153 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure. The debate will begin with a presentation by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Urmas Paet, which will last up to 30 minutes. Questions and answers following the presentation, lasting up to 60 minutes. There will then be a presentation by Marko Mihkelson, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which will last up to 20 minutes, and questions can be submitted to him within 30 minutes. A member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to each of the rapporteurs. After the round of questions, there are negotiations where speeches can be made by members of the Riigikogu, representatives of committees and political groups. At the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, there is a proposal for the Riigikogu to make speeches first by representatives of the political groups. The Riigikogu will not take a decision after the end of the discussion. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has proposed to extend the session until the agenda is exhausted, if necessary, but no longer than 14 p.m. Dear colleagues, allow me to come back to the extension of the sitting when it is necessary. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister of Foreign Affairs Urmas Paeti!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U17	Good morning, good members of the Riigikogu. Good guests! To begin with, I would like to express my deep condolences to the Ukrainian people whose loved ones have died in recent weeks in the greatest tragedy in Ukraine in the last 20 years. Ukrainian society is broken and anxious. It is threatened by people's disappointment and lack of confidence in political power, corruption, the weakness of the state's economy and tensions in the various regions of the country, particularly in Crimea. Ukraine's society can only be improved by a gradual return to confidence in politics and politicians. The rapid formation of a new government and a clear direction towards extraordinary free elections in Ukraine is elementary, but it is not enough to significantly reduce tensions. Rapid and real reforms are needed that strengthen the rule of law, reduce corruption, ensure the functioning of the market economy and strengthen civil society. All of this should increase confidence in the functioning of the state and society as a whole. The European Union and its members, i.e. we, must give Ukraine clear support for all of this, obviously on the basis of the principle of the territorial integrity of Ukraine. Support can be practical, I am thinking of expertise and the experience of reform. There can be political support if we are ready to deepen relations between the European Union and Ukraine, with a clear European perspective. There can also be economic support if we are prepared to provide financial support to Ukraine on the basis of clear reform programmes in order to prevent the economy of that country from collapsing. I very much hope that the majority of Ukrainian society and the leaders of this country will understand unambiguously that a free and democratic and corruption-free rule of law should be an objective which is also a prerequisite for Ukraine's security and well-being. I also consider it important that all partners in the European Union understand how important the European perspective is for all transition societies in Eastern Europe and that it is clearly stated by the European Union. This was and is important for the Western Balkans, for example. Estonia has supported the democratic development of Ukraine for years and is ready to continue to do so. We want Ukraine to become a democratic and strong rule of law. The Ukrainian people deserve this. I spoke to Olga Bogomolets, the head of volunteer doctors at the Ukrainian hotel that was transformed into a doctor's office in Kiev the day before yesterday, who said that Ukraine's future normal development will only be possible if the change of government does not simply bring the opposition to power, but is accompanied by real changes towards freedoms, democracy and the rule of law. According to him, the Ukrainian society highly appreciates the help and experience of Estonia. There is much at stake in Ukraine these days. Many have sacrificed their lives there in order to change their country. We must be supportive of changes aimed at these freedoms. However, other countries of the Eastern Partnership of the European Union are also looking forward to concrete steps. This year, the European Union must conclude an association and free trade agreement with Moldova and Georgia and decide whether to grant visa liberalisation to Moldovan citizens. We have recently decided to send a permanent Estonian diplomat to Moldova. With Azerbaijan, Armenia and Belarus, there is also a need to find concrete opportunities for cooperation from visa facilitation to any other practical cooperation. Ladies and gentlemen, If you look at places other than Ukraine, it has to be said that there are, unfortunately, only a few long-term crises in the world today, where a clear turn for the better can be seen. One example is the development in Burma and the relations between Serbia and Kosovo. The military dictatorship in Burma for decades ended in 2011 and the human rights situation has slowly but steadily improved since then. Serbia and Kosovo have begun to negotiate with a focus on the future. The talks between Serbia and Kosovo are an example of how the perspective of membership of the European Union forces the parties to seek solutions among themselves. This development will increase the security of Europe as a whole, including Estonia. However, Serbia, Kosovo and Burma are unfortunately two bright exceptions. In other areas of conflict in the world, however, the situation is still falling asleep, frozen, anxious, or highly explosive. Consider the victim-rich war in Syria, the North Korean nuclear programme based on prison camps, South Sudan or the Central African Republic. For years, solutions to the Middle East conflict have been sought without success. The Arab Spring countries have not been able to take the path of stable development. In the Caucasus, the situation is strained by Nagorno-Karabakh, South Ossetia and Abkhazia. Hopefully, the situation will turn to the better in Iran. This and several other points of tension affect Estonia more or less. At the same time, the examples of Burma and Serbia-Kosovo inspire the belief that moving towards a safer world is still possible. International attention and support can bring relief to deadlock conflicts. As a member of a responsible international community, Estonia must also act to resolve distant tensions. Honourable Riigikogu! The first foreign policy debate such as today had restored independence in Estonia 20 years ago. On 17 February 1994, Jüri Luik, then Minister of Foreign Affairs, spoke about the fact that empty struggles and constant changes in his views did not lead to the goal. It is our strength that is consistent. In the foreign policy debate 20 years ago, the first national goal was to join NATO, because NATO was seen as the most important stability-proofing organisation in Europe. Ten years later, we joined the Alliance and we can still confirm that the North Atlantic collective defence area is the primary and most important guarantee of our security. Estonia will continue to act to ensure that the NATO defence shield is strong, Estonia has been a reliable and security-created ally. Our defence spending amounts to 2% of GDP, which is currently quite unusual among the allies. At the NATO summit in September, we want confirmation that NATO has a clear goal for the future. NATO must remain a credible collective defence organisation with clearly visible capabilities. It needs to be able to adapt to new challenges, which is why it needs to develop the necessary capabilities, for example in the field of cyber defence. NATO's strength and efficiency depend heavily on transatlantic ties. Europe and North America must work together and in a balanced way. Similarly, the level of defence expenditure and the contribution of NATO to joint action must not deviate excessively from the United States. Despite the fact that 2% of GDP is, unfortunately, rather an exception in the alliance, ambition must not be brought below this level. NATO's open-door policy must also continue. Estonia supports Georgia's membership agenda, or MAP, and is open to the idea of joining Montenegro in the near future when this country is ready to do so. It is also necessary to move forward with NATO in cooperation with Macedonia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Closer cooperation with non-NATO countries, but sharing the same values, in particular Finland, Sweden, Japan, Australia, South Korea and New Zealand, is essential. I now turn to NATO-Russian relations. They could be characterised in the future by greater trust between the parties. There are areas where cooperation is still working well, such as Afghanistan-transit and the fight against terrorism, drugs and piracy, but there is still too much mistrust in these relations, whether we talk about arms control or exercises. The end of the Afghanistan mission puts a number of questions before us, one of the most important of which is finding the right balance between collective defence and crisis management. As a NATO member, we have contributed both to the stability of Afghanistan and, more generally, to the security of the whole world, so very directly. Our assistance to Afghanistan has been diverse since the beginning. Our goal is to prepare our local society, to the extent possible, to launch a functioning state, alongside security. Estonia's contribution has been a forward-looking nature; we have trained future trainers. As said by Malala, a Pakistani girl known as an education fighter who suffered at the hands of the Taliban: "One child, one teacher, one pen and one book can change the world. ' With Estonia's support, Afghan firefighters, diplomats and school teachers have been trained as well as future university lecturers. If Afghanistan needs it and expects it, we are ready to continue supporting, either by training Afghanistan's own security forces or by channelling resources into development cooperation. However, it is clear that Afghanistan has its own agreed tasks and responsibilities, and from the summer of this year, Afghanistan itself has a key role to play in terms of the security of the country and the whole future. Estonia will continue to contribute to international peacekeeping. During meetings at UN headquarters a few weeks ago, the main issue was the growing concern about the situation in the Central African Republic, as well as the international capacity to contribute to mitigating the situation. Estonia was commended for its rapid response. Estonia clearly condemns all violence against civilians and violations of international human rights conventions. Unfortunately, we have often had to hear about murdered or crippled children in Syria and raped women in the Central African Republic. We must do everything we can to avoid new armed conflicts. The main responsibility for resolving the crisis lies with the national authorities, but once all local crisis response measures have been exhausted, the international community must react. There are more and more situations in the world where the lives of many people are threatened by natural disasters or armed conflicts. Our aim is to increase Estonia's ability to respond to humanitarian disasters. The amount of aid is not so important in this respect, as is the support for an already operational aid system and for respect for humanitarian principles and international humanitarian law. Last year, Estonia gave EUR 2.4 million to humanitarian organisations and to tackle humanitarian crises. One fifth of this amount was directed by Estonia to the Philippines to cope with the consequences of the typhoon and to help one third of the victims of the Syrian crisis. We have also sent humanitarian aid to the Central African Republic, for example, and freshly to support victims of Ukrainian demonstrations. At the end of last summer, a chemical attack took place in Syria. It was one of the most brutal and tragic chemical attacks since World War II. Estonia quickly and unambiguously condemned the attack. We were also among the first to provide financial support for the destruction of the chemical weapon. According to the United Nations Refugee Agency, 10 million of the 22 million people in Syria needed humanitarian aid at the end of last year. 9 million people have been forced to leave their homes. 140,000 people have been killed. A generation of children are threatened with a lack of normal education because of war, not to mention the trauma caused by years of life in refugee camps or in the dread of bombs. The civil war in Syria is the biggest humanitarian disaster of the 21st century, which requires clear and swift action from the international community to put pressure on the parties to the conflict to enter into negotiations. In Europe, too, we see the direct consequences of the Syrian civil war, such as the increasing pressure on immigration and the direct participation of European citizens in the conflict, who make connections and gain experience there. Our common goal must be to avoid human rights violations and conflicts. We need to move towards a preventive approach. However, as war crimes and human rights violations have become a fact, they need to be responded immediately. Good listeners! Activity far from home does not mean that relationships in the neighborhood are stopped. Estonia's relations with Russia are working, but there are areas where cooperation could be much better. However, trade restrictions, for example, mean moving in the opposite direction to other developments. It would be useful for all parties concerned if there were no restrictions. On an open and uncertain subject, we are hopefully now putting a stop to, as border agreements were signed on 18 February. The limit is a specific and clear phenomenon which must also be clearly defined in law. This is a matter of direct concern to security. I am pleased that the Riigikogu showed consensus in autumn 2012 when all parties represented in the Riigikogu joined the proposal to find a solution that would allow the border agreements to enter into force. A diplomatic real estate agreement between Estonia and Russia and a cooperation agreement between foreign ministries have been signed. Hopefully, the Double Taxation Convention, the Economic Cooperation Agreement and many other Estonian-Russian agreements will soon enter into force. Of course, we hope that a free civil society will develop in the eastern neighbourhood, and that there will also be a kind and open relationship with neighbouring countries. Like the aim of NATO's allies' cooperation in Europe, the European Union's neighbourhood policy is to act for and against someone. The broadest objective of the Eastern Partnership is to increase security, stability and prosperity. The guarantee of democratic freedoms and the protection of human rights are levers that make every society internally strong and also have a positive impact on the immediate surroundings. The stability, prosperity and security of Europe's eastern partners affect the European Union, as does Russia. For this reason, pressure in favour of internal division of the Eastern partners is not beneficial either for the European Union or for Russia. The worst of all is the instability in the Eastern Partnership countries themselves. The European Union must fundamentally renew its policy after the Vilnius Summit, because the Eastern Partnerships did not take as long a step as expected. However, the Eastern Partnership in Vilnius certainly did not end. The problems became clearer, and now we need to move forward in solving them using the'more for more' principle. Good Riigikogu! Today we can say with absolute certainty that the sense of crisis in Europe has diminished. The worst is behind us: confidence is recovering and Eurostat is forecasting economic growth in almost all Member States this year. The difficult times have taught Europe to seek common solutions, not to turn its back on problems without deepening them. It is still important to us that the fundamental principles of the past should not be addressed in shaping the future Europe, for example, in terms of four fundamental freedoms. A strong and open European Union is in Estonia's interest. The European Parliament has an increasing weight in the decision-making mechanism of the European Union, which is why it should be important to all Estonian and European citizens what the new composition of the European Parliament will be. I hope that its majority will support a strong European Union and progress in this direction. There are a number of things in the European Union that can and must be done now, and for which there is no need to change any important agreements. The free movement of services, the digital single market, a more coherent foreign, security and energy policy are some examples where there is much room for improvement. The search for a more effective European Union will shape a strong organisation, one that is also attractive for countries not yet outside the European Union. The attractiveness of the European Union is demonstrated by the fact that there are several countries that are interested in accession. It is important to be open to these countries. This year, when a hundred years have passed since the beginning of World War I, we are in a position where accession talks with Serbia, Montenegro and Turkey must develop smoothly. I hope that Iceland will return to the accession talks and Albania, Kosovo and Bosnia and Herzegovina will also be ready to start them one day. Of course, I expect the question of Macedonia's name to be resolved and this country will be able to move forward towards both the European Union and NATO. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! A closed and poor society is never safe. The growth of the Estonian economy is supported by strong external economic relations. Business and economic diplomacy has become one of the cornerstones of Estonian foreign communication. The work of Estonian diplomats is increasingly linked to helping Estonian companies to new markets and introducing the characteristics and conditions of the Estonian market to foreign companies. Estonia has the image of an innovative and business-friendly state. This has led many entrepreneurs to invest in Estonia, bring their activities here or learn from their experiences here. Let us give an example of the world's leading logistics company Kuehne+Nagel, who, when investing in Estonia, established its IT development centre here. We were looking for Nokia, but we found Skype, GrabCad, TransferWise, Erply, ZeroTurnaround, and a lot of other IT tigers with an innovative approach. The success story of Estonian information technology is perhaps our most well-known business card, but alongside IT companies, many companies from other areas contribute more and more boldly to export. The largest and most modern cereal processor in the Baltics, who has won the title of exporter last year, Tartu Mill is an excellent example of this. The strong aspect of Estonian exports has been considered to be diversity, as exports are based on more than ten major groups of goods. We want to support Estonian entrepreneurs more and more effectively. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is planning to further develop its capacity in business diplomacy. Estonia has been a country with a very liberal trade policy throughout its independence period. We have already won a great deal from the open economy and trade relations, and the removal of restrictions will certainly directly contribute to the growth of our prosperity in the future. In the autumn of last year, two major trading powers in the world were launched by the European Union and the US to negotiate a trade and investment partnership agreement. Once the Treaty enters into force, it will have an extraordinary historical significance, not only for trade and the economy, but only for the US and the European Union. The movement of goods is facilitated by the abolition of tariffs and non-tariff barriers, as well as the removal of barriers to the provision of services. In addition, efforts will be made to harmonise the rules and standards of both sides. On this basis, you can imagine what the impact of this remarkable agreement between the European Union and the United States will be. It is calculated that this agreement could bring an additional EUR 90 billion to the US economy and EUR 120 billion to the EU economy per year. The US-EU trade agreement also has a clear security policy dimension that strengthens the transatlantic link. There are many other developments that are important to us in world trade. The European Union has concluded negotiations on a trade agreement with Canada. Similar negotiations will be conducted with Japan, Vietnam, Malaysia and Thailand. We hope that talks with India will move forward, and negotiations with China will take off. The face of world trade has changed a lot in recent decades. 20 years ago, when imported and exported together accounted for 20% of everything that was consumed in the world, now 40% and it is thought that this percentage will continue to increase. A global trading system based on common rules is beneficial to all. It is undoubtedly a good thing that Russia is a member of the World Trade Organisation. However, the WTO framework can only fully exploit its potential if the Parties fulfil their commitments. We expect Russia to abandon rolling new barriers to free and open trade and to remove the additional barriers that have already been put in place. Estonia is in close contact with Russian colleagues and the European Commission to find a solution to trade disputes. In development cooperation, we have set the target of increasing development aid to 0.17% of GDP in the coming years. In this way, we support the development of a functioning economic and business environment in these countries. There will also be an increase in the number of countries where we are prepared to organise development cooperation projects. Successful projects have started to work in Tunisia, Palestine and Burma, for example. We are ready to expand this circle, both in Africa and Asia. However, it is clear that cooperation with more remote and risky regions requires patience and an informed approach. It should be taken into account that the network of Estonian representations will never be quite ready, and the search for balance must continue. In my opinion, we are now optimally represented outside Estonia with our diplomats. Four of the last five representations we have opened are located in Asia or Australia. The last-open embassy in India, which deals with business contacts and consular issues, such as the problems of Estonian citizens detained, as well as political cooperation, has worked very well. There has been a significant increase in relations with Japan, which also participates in our regional North Baltic cooperation. A new Estonian embassy building is about to be completed in Beijing and we will soon open an embassy in Brazil, where the ambassador will also go to work in the summer. This is the first Estonian ambassador on the ground in South America. The fact that all the last-open representations are located in Asia, Australia or South America is relatively well in line with the expectation that Estonia should not stay away from developments in emerging economies. The reason for opening an embassy or consulate is that there is an increasing need to provide citizens with consular services and support for businesses to enter the market. After the opening of the embassy in Brazil this year, Estonia has offices in all countries that are among our 20 most important trading partners. As of now, Estonia has embassies in countries with which trade in goods accounts for 94.3% of total foreign trade turnover. However, the peculiarity of Estonia's foreign trade is that we trade more closely with a small number of countries. This has been the case since the restoration of independence. Close cooperation with our key markets, which are predominantly located in the Baltic Sea region, will therefore continue to be of key importance to us. Estonian companies do not compete in every field because Estonia's small size sets its limits, but we have good products and the ability to export them. The introduction of the e-state is also central to communicating with countries that are still preparing to rebuild their e-state. Ene Ergma will surely remember how she, along with the delegation from Kyrgyzstan's e-governance, used to plant trees more than ten years ago, and now Kyrgyzstan is watching Estonia build e-Kyrgyzstan. What Estonia is and what values we bear is, in my opinion, a genuine expression of the fact that we are one of the most active advocates of Internet freedom. In Estonia's opinion, freedom on the Internet is an integral part of human rights. Security and freedom online are not mutually exclusive. In addition to being a member of the UN Human Rights Council, Estonia is currently chairing the coalition for Internet Freedom, which is why we have a good opportunity, but also a responsible task to manage the work of a community of 22 countries. The aim of the Internet Freedom Coalition is to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms in cyberspace. We will organise a high-level conference in Tallinn at the end of April 'Free and Secure Internet for All'. As a member of the UN Human Rights Council, we will continue to contribute directly to other areas of human rights. Our special focus is on women's and children's rights, both in conflict zones and elsewhere. However, an important development in cyber security was the joint declaration of cyber cooperation signed last year between Estonia and the US, which provides a solid framework for further bilateral action and cooperation in international organisations. The circle of problems related to Internet governance and global cyber architecture will remain an important area of work in the near future. Good listeners! To conclude this review, I will address our home region, the Baltic Sea. In order to encourage regional cooperation, Estonia can do a lot this year. We are managing at the same time three forms of regional cooperation: Nordic-Baltic cooperation, Baltic cooperation and, since July, the Council of the Baltic Sea States. In the Baltic Sea, we confirm the role of the Baltic Sea region in its development. As early as next week, Estonia will organise a meeting of foreign ministers from the Nordic and Baltic countries and the Visegrád countries in Narva. I will mention only the most important issues common to our region. Firstly, energy projects. Our goal is to make the Baltic Energy Island disappear. To this end, new connections must be built and efforts made to ensure that new suppliers have access to the common market. This year, work on the regional Baltic LNG terminal and the natural gas pipeline connecting Estonia and Finland will certainly move forward. Estonian and Finnish direct current connection Estlink 2 has been at the disposal of the electricity market since 7 February. This triples the maximum transmission capacity between Estonia and Finland. Secondly, the biggest infrastructure project in the Baltic States ever, Rail Baltic. It is one of the most important corridors of the European Union's transport network. The full cooperation between the Baltic States is very important here. Latvia's accession to the euro area was an extremely important development. Hopefully, Lithuania will soon do the same. Looking north, even beyond Finland, it can be said that a serious debate has begun that could lead to Estonia's observer status in the Arctic Council. This region and organisation are becoming increasingly important in terms of economic, security and, of course, environmental protection due to the changes taking place in the Arctic. Moreover, Estonia is the closest country to the Arctic, which does not belong to this council. Honourable Riigikogu! Our strength has been meaningful, consistent, but increasingly evolving foreign policy. Inevitably, the instruments have changed, for example, the increase in the role of business diplomacy or the emergence of chirping diplomacy, as well as the emergence of all social media. But these are instruments, not values, and far from objectives. We must be convinced of what we are doing and help those who really need it. Today, Ukraine's society needs much understanding, support and help, both for us and for the whole of Europe. Thank you for listening!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U18	Thank you very much, Minister of Foreign Affairs. You have a lot of questions. Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U19	Thank you, Minister. Thank you very much for your meaningful presentation. I, too, will turn to the most topical and important issue, i.e. the situation in Ukraine. Thank you very much for being there and actively contributing to these developments. What are the practical opportunities of the European Union and perhaps the United States and the next steps towards economic aid, reform aid for Ukraine? Ukraine is, in fact, in a rather difficult economic situation; it is even on the verge of bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U20	Yes, the economic situation of the Ukrainian state is currently very critical, and without external assistance, this country will not be able to cope. The European Union is ready to put together a package of assistance with the International Monetary Fund, the United States and possibly other international partners. The prerequisite for this is, of course, that Ukraine once again has a government, and the government has a clear vision of how to use this money. It is also directly linked to the fact that there must be an idea of how reforms will be carried out, because simply receiving money and using it for running costs does not have a longer-term effect. So the short answer is yes, the readiness of the European Union is there, but it is important that this assistance is adopted by a partner with a clear vision. I hope that a new government will be appointed in Ukraine today. This government urgently needs to take steps to get out of the critical economic situation and offer the European Union, as well as other international partners, a vision on which to start providing assistance.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U21	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U22	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister of Foreign Affairs, for your presentation. My question is also about Ukraine. What is our plan and, more broadly, the European, democratic world plan in case the territorial integrity of Ukraine should be compromised? I hope this doesn't happen, but I wonder if this negative scenario will be dealt with. I'm going to ask you a little bit more about the economy, just like Arto Aas. Is there any European Union action on the agenda, and is it possible that a clearer perspective for accession to the European Union will open up?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U23	I agree with you that the issue of territorial integrity should not come on the agenda at all and should not come. It is elementary that the territorial integrity of countries is important and sacred, and that also applies to Ukraine. So all developments and policies must be very clearly based on the territorial integrity of Ukraine. It is certainly a united task of the new Ukrainian government and of all political forces to calm the troubled regions, in particular Crimea. Of course, it is important that Ukraine's neighbours and other responsible partners do their utmost to bring about peace in the various regions of Ukraine. Possible negative scenarios are certainly being considered, but this is not the stage in which these matters should be discussed in detail. I am absolutely convinced that Ukraine will overcome internal turbulence and that the territorial integrity of the country will not be questioned in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U24	Mart Nutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U25	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, thank you for your presentation. I expect that there will be a lot of questions about Ukraine today and I will also ask about one area concerning Ukraine. You mentioned that human rights and freedom on the Internet are one of Estonia's foreign policy priorities. In the short term, are human rights events planned for a year or a bit further?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U26	Do you mean this issue in a wider sense, not just in relation to Ukraine? There will be good cooperation in Estonia with third sector organisations such as the Institute of Human Rights, the Estonian Institute of Foreign Policy and the International Centre for Defence Studies, which, as far as I know, will also have international events on the subject of human rights planned this year. In addition, the Lennart Meri conference will certainly address human rights issues. The high-level international meeting of the countries of the online freedom coalition mentioned in my speech at the end of April is also a very important undertaking on the Internet, but also on human rights in general. This also includes international action in the UN and other international organisations, which are dealing with very different human rights issues. In addition to the freedoms, including freedom on the Internet, the rights of women and children in armed conflicts and the prevention of major international crimes on this agenda or agenda that we are keeping under our attention, both in our speeches and in our actions. So the short answer is yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U27	Thank you. Please, Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U28	Thank you, good manager. Good Minister of Foreign Affairs! Separatists have demonised you and the media of the Committee on Foreign Affairs in the context of the Estonian-Russian border treaty. They have forgotten that, in addition to Estonia and Japan, there is another country that does not have a valid border agreement with Russia. This is Georgia. We know where the de facto border of Georgia has shifted due to a number of factors. My question is about this situation if there is a conflict on our eastern border. We hope, of course, that this will never happen. But if this conflict should arise and we do not have a valid border agreement, what will guarantee that the current de facto border will be maintained in international courts? How can we make our demands if the de facto border shifts a few more kilometres to the west, to our detriment? On the basis of which document would we demand a de facto border if we did not have a border agreement?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U29	As you yourself wisely said, we must do everything we can to ensure that the situation you mentioned never arises. I'm pretty sure that's gonna happen, and that's never gonna happen. One of the reasons why Parliament also proposed in 2012 that the issue of border agreements should be removed from the agenda, namely that these agreements should enter into force, was that we need a legally clearly defined national border, which both parties accept. When we look around the world, we see that misunderstandings, tensions and worse things are often born because there are territorial disputes and it is not clear where the border goes exactly. In order to prevent all of this from happening in the future, border agreements have been concluded. As far as disputes about the location of the border are concerned, one argument has certainly been a de facto situation which has been accepted. But once again, I do not think there is any point in starting this discussion today at all. The border agreements have been signed again, they will be here soon, and the Riigikogu will have the opportunity to state its position, which I hope will mean accepting ratification. Then we can finally take this, including from the security aspect, out of the agenda and legally and with the acceptance of both sides of the state border.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U30	Thank you. Please, Urmas Glass!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U31	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your meaningful presentation. Understandably, it is not possible to reflect all nuances in a comprehensive speech, which is why I will continue to ask about the Estonian-Russian border agreement. Of course, ratification is a parliamentary process and if the government brings the treaty here, the Riigikogu will work with it. But I'm interested in your communication, consultations and contacts with the Russian side. Can you tell us what pace Russia envisages for ratifying the border treaty? It is up to the two chambers in Parliament to deal with this. Are there any indications, promises, or anything like that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U32	No one can make promises in this sense. Parliament in itself is very important; it is made up of a whole series of political forces, which in turn consist of specific people. But in fact, both sides, both Estonia and Russia, have expressed their desire that this process be conducted without hindrance. This request has been expressed from the Russian side, for example, by the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee of both Chambers of Parliament. The Russian Minister of Foreign Affairs expressed the same wish at the meetings in Moscow. So I have received such a message from Russia that they want the ratification process to begin and run smoothly.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U33	Thank you. Please, Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U34	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you for your presentation. My question is driven by the news about Uganda that I heard yesterday. In fact, a number of European countries, such as Denmark, Norway and the Netherlands, have decided not to support the Ugandan Government because it has adopted a law that criminalises homosexuality. What is Estonia's foreign policy position on LGBT rights? Do we consider gay rights to be human rights and do we consider it important and necessary to protect them both in Estonia and abroad?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U35	Thank you. Please, Marko Mihkelson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U36	Yes, they are clearly part of human rights. The decision of the Ugandan Government is deplorable. Hopefully they'll change their mind.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U37	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Thank you, Minister, for a good speech. I also have a question about Ukraine, which is extremely topical. The events that have taken place in recent hours, particularly in Crimea, point to a very important problem concerning the preservation of the territorial integrity of Ukraine. I believe that this will certainly be the subject of international attention. You yourself visited Ukraine two days ago and saw what help Estonia could give to Ukraine, what is expected there. In recent months or years, we have had some limited aid programmes for Ukraine because of the conditions on the ground. I do believe that there are more of these opportunities now. What can Estonia do specifically to help Ukraine today?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U38	The most important thing that we can and are willing to do is increasingly and increasingly help with our independent experts in this country's administration to change policy. This is what civil society there wants and, let us say, a far-reaching section of politicians. The current change of government in Ukraine, too, should not simply mean the introduction of new politicians to ministerial positions, but should bring about real reforms aimed at strengthening the rule of law, fighting corruption and achieving more real democracy. If, following these tragic events in Ukraine, the will to move forward with real reforms is realised, then Estonian experts are definitely welcome there. That is what I was told in Ukraine the day before, and that has been said in the past. This is the clearest additional contribution we can make. There must be smaller things we can do. We have decided to increase, essentially double, the number of scholarships we are prepared to give to Ukrainian students who come to Estonian universities to study. In the light of recent events, we have also made decisions on humanitarian aid. However, the fundamental issue is still the country's move towards democratisation. Mrs Bogomolets, who has become one of the leaders and authority of civil society, said directly that she felt that rapid and fundamental changes would not be possible if independent external experts were not involved to help implement these changes. Estonia is authoritative in this sense, because Estonia has been going through similar things very recently. That's why our experience and advice are, let's say, credibile.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U39	Thank you. Please, Rait Maruse!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U40	Thank you! Minister, I, too, thank you for a proper and realistic review. My question is about citizenship policy. We live in a dynamic and open world. At the same time, the starting points and regulation of Estonian citizenship policy have been completely conservative. However, we should be open and seek friends rather than be repulsive. What is your attitude towards further regulation of double citizenship, and how do you approach this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U41	I have made my attitude very clear over the last few years. In my opinion, the Estonian Citizenship Act should also be brought into line with the Constitution in substance. The Constitution says no one is to be deprived of their citizenship at birth. However, the Citizenship Act does not allow double citizenship. There is, in my opinion, a clear contradiction here. Looking also at the modern world, my attitude is that double citizenship can be allowed at least to Estonian citizens after birth. This concerns people whose parents or grandparents left Estonia because of the events of World War II and the Soviet occupation. But it also affects more and more people who have married a citizen of another country and who have children born. These children are being put before a choice in terms of citizenship, which I do not think is a very moral step. In most countries of the European Union, double citizenship of birth citizens is accepted. I do not consider the current system to be sustainable because we are forcing people to break the law, even though the Constitution allows double citizenship. In my opinion, we should not accept this situation in the Estonian rule of law at length. In short, I support the admission of double citizenship to the citizens of Estonia after birth.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U42	Thank you. Please, Mati Raidma!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U43	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Minister, for your presentation. With my question, I am moving to a remote crisis zone in the Central African Republic. There was also a long debate in this Chamber about our peace-building mission to be sent there. I was under the impression that there was a false perception that defence forces and peace-building missions could solve the problems once and for all. What does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs now see as a crisis monster in Central Africa and our civilian contribution to this?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U44	As of now, I am looking towards the Central African Republic with great concern. The risk that there's gonna be a big outbreak of violence is still there. At present, the international community considers that there are two areas where major outbreaks of violence are possible: Central African Republic and South Sudan. This concern has been voiced by the United Nations, where all the countries of the world, the Secretary-General of the United Nations, the UN Security Council and several original organisations are represented. If the international community succeeds in preventing a possible major outbreak of violence in these countries, including the Central African Republic, which you asked about, then it is fine. As far as civil contributions are concerned, it is clear that this can be provided rationally once the acute security problem has been resolved. These activities are carried out in parallel in the Central African Republic. The peace mediation function will be the African Union and France, soon also the European Union mission, and hopefully other countries will also provide assistance. In parallel, humanitarian aid is provided. Currently, humanitarian aid is being given to people who are in refugee camps or whose survival depends solely on international humanitarian aid. The next page will still be turned to start providing so-called structural development aid, which should be the objective, only when the security situation allows it. This is not yet possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U45	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U46	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much for your thorough review. My question is about India. Our compatriots have been there for quite a long time in relatively inhumane conditions, which will soon also have a negative impact on their health. Can you say in a word what developments have taken place in this matter, and is there any hope that these people will be home soon?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U47	Yes, I fully agree with your assessment. This has been discussed in the Riigikogu before. It should be taken into account that these people have been prosecuted by the sovereign state, or Indian judicial system, on behalf of the Indian state. Our concern is that this process there is very slow. As far as detention conditions are concerned, in the context of India, they are no worse than, say, there is that level. But when compared to Estonia's detention places, the daily situation there is, of course, worse. What can we do? We and the British, on the same charge as British and Ukrainian citizens, can draw the attention both to the Indian authorities and, for example, to our partners from the Member States of the European Union that this process should be as rapid and transparent as possible. To this end, we must communicate directly with the judicial authorities in this state of India and with those political circles that are still responsible for the work of the courts. This is, I dare say, a very complicated situation. However, it is clear that our aim is to get this process through quickly and to cause as little damage as possible to these people, which also concerns the conditions of detention that you have mentioned.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U48	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U49	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Once again, I come back to the border agreement between Russia and Estonia. Estonia is a parliamentary state. As we know, we are adopting laws and decisions in this Chamber, which are as if a guide to the Government of the Republic and to ministers in their further work. You mentioned in your report that you are grateful to all the political parties that made a statement or a proposal two years ago and gave you the right to deal with border issues, which is why we have now reached where we have reached. Let's look at this legal base. Isn't there a mistake? Perhaps all these talks should have started only if the Riigikogu had taken a decision that would give the Minister of Foreign Affairs a mandate and the right to act in this direction and ultimately sign the border agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U50	No, in legal terms, there is certainly no mistake here. This proposal made in 2012 by all the political groups of the Riigikogu was not a legal document in that sense, but it was the political will of the political parties represented in the parliament. The Constitution provides the basis for preparing and signing agreements with other countries. Currently, the Constitution is clearly based. According to this, Parliament's role in international agreements is very clear: it is up to Parliament to decide whether or not to ratify one or the other of the signed agreements. That's the legal side. With another country, talks are held by government and ministries. If it is reasonable and the government so decides, the Treaty will be concluded and after that the Riigikogu will either ratify it or not ratify it. Contracts will only enter into force once the Riigikogu has spoken. The Estonian-Russian border agreements have also been and will continue to do so. I have highlighted this development in 2012 as a very positive example, in my view, of how the Riigikogu can express a clear political message common to all political forces in important matters.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U51	Thank you. Please, Rein Lang!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U52	Thank you, Mr President. Good Urmas! You briefly mentioned that our contribution to development aid could increasingly mean that we allow students from societies in difficult situations to study at our universities. This has been the case for Ukraine. But I know that in this way, however, we have made a limited contribution to development aid. I am about to say that I consider this to be an extremely sensible policy. Is it possible that, in the coming years, we could significantly emphasise this direction?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U53	Yes, there is a very specific plan to increase the number of scholarships that we pay to students from our development cooperation partner countries who come to Estonian universities to study. I believe that the number of scholarships will multiply in the coming years. This concerns classic university studies, but also the Eastern Partnership Centre and the School of diplomats for the Eastern Partnership countries of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U54	Thank you. Please, Mart Meri!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U55	Thank you. Good minister! How do you assess the ability of our External Action Service to represent Estonia's foreign economic interests in all weather maps? What do you think our External Action Service is now capable of and in what direction should it be developed further? Probably in the direction of reinforcement.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U56	I think that progress has also clearly taken place in the direction of strengthening capacity. If we compare the current capacity of our foreign representations to do so-called foreign economic policy, including helping our companies, to the situation a few years ago, we can see that the result is now significantly better. But all things can be done even better, and that's what we're trying to do. The opening of new offices outside Europe, which I have mentioned, has also brought more experience and know-how about countries that were much less knowledgeable than before. It's an evolving process. I'm absolutely sure things can be done even better and more professionally. But, as I mentioned, we are finally in a situation where there is an Estonian representation in the capital of 20 of our most important foreign trade partners. Perhaps if you look at the trade in all of Estonia, nearly 95% of our trading markets are covered by Estonian representations, which, I think, is a pretty good result. It is good that in those countries where the interests of Estonian entrepreneurs are mainly directed, there is also an Estonian representation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U57	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U58	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Minister of Foreign Affairs, for your presentation. I ask about the possibilities that will open up after Estonia and Russia have ratified the border agreement. Namely, we are talking about a visa-free zone, which gives the people of Estonia and Russia the opportunity to move across the border free after the border agreement has been concluded. Some of your party associates have been very supportive of this, but I know that you are not in favour of it. Can you briefly explain why you do not support the creation of a visa-free zone after the conclusion of the border agreement?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U59	We are talking about an opportunity that is also provided by European Union legislation. Either 30 km or 50 km may be covered by a simplified border crossing procedure for people living in that border zone. Of Russia's neighbours, some countries have implemented this system, such as Poland and Latvia since last summer. At the same time, there are countries that have not done so, such as Finland and Estonia. Years ago, when this opportunity came about legally, it was discussed in the government. At the time, the position of the Ministry of the Interior was very clearly negative because it was considered too resource-intensive. This has not been discussed again. My attitude is not rigidly negative, I'd rather be prudent. For larger countries, the advantages here are more understandable, but Estonia's territory is not very large. It is difficult to imagine a situation where people living in these places, for example, 50 kilometres away from the Russian border, can go to Russia without a visa, but people living 60 kilometres away from the Russian border cannot. Wouldn't that create misunderstandings within Estonia? We already have a small country, do we need to draw another thoughtful line here? The background here is that the preparations for the start of negotiations between the European Union and Russia on visa liberalisation are now being made carefully. It's a farther perspective. Once again, my position is not rigidly negative. I think that we need to discuss this issue again seriously once this desire has come into question again. There are arguments here for the same reason. In my opinion, the biggest question is whether in a relatively small country such as Estonia it is reasonable to draw new thoughtful lines so that some of the population have one right and others. I apologise to Andres Herkel for for forgetting about the prospect of the European Union in Ukraine. I'm gonna settle this debt. Yes, Estonia's position has always been that all European countries, including all Eastern Partnership countries, must have a clear European perspective. The reality is that, unfortunately, there is no consensus in the European Union, as you probably know well. We will continue to explain with those countries that share the view that the European Union's perspective must be clear, because it is a definite motivator, as we have seen in the Western Balkans, for example. This must also be the case in the Eastern European countries, but so far there is no consensus.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U60	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Foreign Minister Urmas Paet! I invite Marko Mihkelson, Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U61	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable guests! 20 years ago, on 17 February 1994, the Riigikogu held the first debate on foreign policy. This took place at a time when two and a half thousand Russian soldiers were present in Estonia, and our dream of membership of the European Union and NATO was only to the brave. As I prepared for today's speech, I read with great interest the presentation by Jüri Luige, the Foreign Minister at the time. I must say that the central issues of foreign policy, which have already been formulated at the time, have remained topical so far. In his speech at the time, Luik said that we'must make better use of existing opportunities to increase and maintain the interest of different countries in Estonia and find the most effective ways to ensure our existence in the minds of these countries'. Another important issue was that of Foreign Minister Luik's focus on security in our foreign policy. 'In the case of any foreign policy step, it is probably worth asking yourself whether these steps will strengthen our security or weaken it,' said Luik. As a third principle, in 1994 the Minister of Foreign Affairs considered it necessary to pay greater attention to the economic interests of Estonia. 'Estonia's economic well-being depends directly on the future of our country, therefore the task of foreign policy is to ensure that we do not become economically dependent on any country and that Estonian goods have enough free markets' were Swan's words. As early as the early 1990s, it was perceived that the clarity, prioritisation and consistency of Estonian foreign policy are an important part of the country's successful development. Luik then stressed that 'we must make a clear decision as to which goals can be postponed, which should be achieved by concentrating our main forces' and added that 'the general aim of the foreign policy of the re-independant Estonian state has been to secure Estonia's independence from the beginning'. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, 20 years later, the active nature of foreign policy, focusing on important issues and effective cooperation with partners and allies is also very important for Estonia. While in 1994 only the first steps were taken to join the European Union by concluding a free trade agreement, in the coming spring we will be celebrating the 10 years since Estonia joined both the European Union and NATO. It is difficult to overestimate membership in both organisations. It is now a natural part of our international position and conduct. I'm not tired of repeating that we've never had as many friends and allies as we have now. It is invaluable to Estonia's foreign policy and allows us to look boldly to the future. In the next decade, the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu considers that the two most important strategic goals of Estonian foreign policy are to work purposefully to strengthen the regional security environment and to increase Estonia's international competitiveness. Both are crucial drivers of our long-term development, and it will be in the years to come that we will have to invest heavily in diplomatic capital and working hours. First of all, I'm talking about the security environment. It is no secret that our long-term foreign policy challenge, including in the area of security, will continue to be our relations with Russia. Estonia's goal is to establish good neighbourly, mutually respectful and beneficial relations. It is an understandable long process, but there is no alternative. Internal developments and the still difficult transition process have made Russia a difficult partner in international relations, both for small neighbours and for the world's great powers. The experience of the major exercises in Zapad 2013 last autumn confirms that Russia does not sufficiently understand the current nature of NATO and does not appreciate the content of the Alliance's deterrence. Russian strategic bombers' exercises over the Baltic Sea last year also belonged to the same area. Why does Russia need to spend money and rhetoric to threaten the most peaceful region in the world? In this way, we must bear in mind that the coming years will be of great importance for the expansion of Nordic security cooperation, the integration of the Eastern Partnership countries into the EuroAtland space and the strengthening of NATO's collective defence capabilities, especially after the end of the Afghanistan mission. I believe that the NATO autumn summit in Cardiff will give a new impetus to the strengthening and expansion of the alliance. During the last two years, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has listened to reviews of the security challenges of the Nordic and Baltic regions. We want to bring the final results of our work to the debate in this Chamber this year. Ladies and gentlemen, Strengthening the security environment in our region, however, is not just about contributing to deterrence. Our country's interests are certainly driven by consistent diplomatic action, including relations with Russia. The border agreement signed last week in Moscow and the diplomatic real estate agreement are one of the most remarkable diplomatic events in relations between Estonia and Russia in the last few decades. The story of both agreements has been long and complicated and has required a great deal of ingenuity and patience from our diplomats. In international relations, there is a shared principle that borders with neighbouring countries are fixed by agreements. Therefore, the existence of a border agreement is a rule rather than an exception. As early as the early 1990s, Estonia was recognised as having a positive impact on our security when concluding a border agreement with Russia. This will help to increase stability and predictability in transnational relations and will prevent misunderstandings and misunderstandings on such an important subject as national territories. A clearly established and marked border is an important security factor. Estonia has not made any fundamental concessions to Russia in the agreement on border agreements, except in view of the changes in the political map of Europe due to the outcome of World War II. It should not be forgotten that Finland, which fought with the Soviet Union, had to give up more than 10% of its pre-war territory in order to maintain independence. The Estonian Constitutional Assembly already provided in 1992 that § 122 of the Constitution, which deals with the progress of the state border, would be formulated in such a way as to enable the post-Peace border of Tartu to be corrected without violating the Constitution itself. Therefore, at different times the constitutionality of the border agreements has been confirmed by the Chancellors of Justice Eerik-Juhan Truuväli, Allar Jõks and Indrek Teder. The principle of legal continuity was particularly important during the last border talks, which began in October 2012 following the joint return of the Riigikogu groups to the government. Since the agreements concluded in 2005 left too much room for interpretation in terms of legal continuity, Estonia has now reached a change of the agreements with an additional clause that is important to us. The clause attached to Professor Lauri Mälksoo's proposal that the agreement concerns exclusively the state border is opposed to the risk that the agreement to be concluded will be interpreted against the will of the Republic of Estonia and also against our constitution. It is unnecessary to stress that, according to Chancellor Teder, the conclusion of the Estonian-Russian state border agreement, as proposed in the draft, does not affect the validity of the Tartu Peace Treaty as an important basis for Estonian statehood and as a bearer of the continuity of the Republic of Estonia. It should not be forgotten that the eastern border of Estonia is also the external border of the European Union and NATO. If we consider it important to strengthen allied relations, then the legally defined border with Russia will also fulfil this objective. In commenting on the signing of the border agreements, Polish Foreign Minister Radoslaw Sikorski rightly said that another loose end of the Cold War was fixed. The conclusion and final enforcement of border agreements will make it possible to focus on extending the contractual base for bilateral relations. Article 8 of the BBT alone provides that a number of issues relating to the practical operation of the border (e.g. the activities of border representatives, rules for the use of water, shipping, joint use of bridges and hydrotechnical facilities at the border, fishing conditions) are governed by separate agreements. The Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu has contributed primarily to the final enforcement of the border agreements through the establishment of national consensus and the parliamentary dialogue between Estonia and Russia. Last April the Commission delegation visited Moscow, but last week we hosted a delegation from the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Russian Federation Council in Tallinn. Hopefully, next month the Committee on Foreign Affairs will start preparing the ratification of border agreements in the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, Another very important strategic objective in the coming years is to increase Estonia's international competitiveness. One of our biggest domestic concerns now is the too slow growth of the economy and the limited openness to the division of labour in the global economy. If we want to reduce the exodus caused by the economic situation from Estonia and increase the number of paid jobs, we must use the most diverse resources to link Estonia to the dynamic growth centres of the world in the coming decade. Although the Estonian economy is securely linked to the successful neighbouring Nordic countries and, more generally, to the European Union, in a changing world, the country should be more actively prepared to support the entry of our businesses into new growth markets. Moreover, we can be more successful in Asia or Latin America, for example, than in the competitive market in Western Europe. This membership of the Committee on Foreign Affairs has devoted much time to foreign economic policy, for example by launching a broader discussion on the importance of Asia in increasing our international competitiveness. Just yesterday, the Commission listened to the report on the government's activities in relation to the recommendations contained in the Asia Strategy. We will certainly continue to address the issue, looking more closely at how our government agencies are prepared to implement the Asia Strategy. Last April, a delegation from the Committee on Foreign Affairs made a working visit to Singapore and Indonesia. This was Estonia's first parliamentary visit to these countries in Southeast Asia. The visit made it possible to create new political contacts and to raise our awareness of the development of the region. The opening of the Estonian Honorary Consulate in Jakarta increased Estonia's presence in the region. Foreign economic policy has been one of the priorities of our government's activities in recent years, but so far there has been a lack of coordination between ministries and authorities. The first step here could be, as was the creation of the Government Security Committee: a Foreign Trade Committee could be set up to better communicate the work of the Government. In the case of high-level visits, one measure should also be how they help to increase Estonia's reputation and competitiveness in the world. Regular high-level visits are particularly important in countries where national interest in and contribution to economic cooperation is assessed. However, after the next parliamentary elections in 2015, a separate post of Minister for Foreign Trade could be considered. This certainly does not limit the activities of either the Minister for Foreign Affairs or the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, but it would allow one member of the government to focus entirely on strengthening Estonia's position in foreign markets. Team Finland and Alexander Stubb's activities in Finland are a good example here. Why can't we have Team Estonia? Ladies and gentlemen, The events of recent months in Ukraine are a vivid example of how events in today's dynamically changing world are extremely difficult to predict. Moreover, who would have thought, at the time of the Vilnius Summit, last November, that the Ukrainian authorities would organise the mass killing of their people directly in the heart of the capital! The decision of President Viktor Janukovych to suspend the process of integration with Europe, which has been removed from power today, was a trigger that led to the people's displeasure. But that was not the only reason why events evolved to confront the dozens of human casualties. The roots of the conflict are much deeper. In essence, Ukraine has reached the heart of the value conflict in its transition development. The central question now is whether it will be possible to get out of Soviet-era wrestling and stealing through the past and step-by-step entry into European value space or whether there will still be a circular guarantee system that inhibits development. At the end of January, when I was moving around in the centre of Kiev in Maidan with former Minister of Defence, Anatoly Hrytenko, he gave me a catchy explanation of what was happening in the protesters' minds. The Ukrainians are not the ones who quickly break under the baton or even under the bullets. This shows that there is a citizenship that demands and protects his or her rights in Ukraine and rather expands rather than narrows. For barely 20 years, it has deepened people's belief that independent Ukraine is something that is so simply no longer abandoned. The People's Revolution, which has taken place in front of the world, has opened up a new opportunity for Ukraine to strengthen its independence under the democratic rule of law, to extend the reach of civil society and to promote a competitive and non-corruption economy. During the last week, the Ukrainians taught the world a great lesson: freedom is a value for which a people of courage and faith in the future are also willing to defy death. Even the most bloody dictator has a hard power to suppress. Many thanks to the rapid mediation of the Polish, French and German foreign ministers and the intervention of the US Vice-President, the violence has been halted and Ukraine is returning to the democratic process. This is the moment in Kiev for rapid political and economic support from all those who care about a united, independent and successful Ukraine. Possible future solutions are, of course, essential for the Ukrainians themselves. This is perfectly understood in Kiev. At the same time, it is well known that a country with 45 million inhabitants in Europe is capable of influencing much larger cross-border processes with its own development vector. Therefore, the free world must not remain a spectator, but must lend its help to get Ukraine out of the crisis. The Foreign Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu has been keeping an eye on the events in Ukraine since last autumn. As the events escalated, we didn't stand by. On 23 January, I, together with the Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Latvian and Lithuanian Parliament, made a statement to the Ukrainian authorities on the suspension of violence. On 26 and 27 January, I visited Kiev to see the situation on the ground and to meet representatives of the political forces. On 30 January, the Committee on Foreign Affairs issued a consensus statement in support of democratic Ukraine. Ukraine has been at the heart of Estonian foreign policy radar for years. It is in our interest to fully support the taking-up of democratic values in Ukraine. Independent and successful Ukraine will enhance stability and security throughout Europe. Estonia should be more active in its relations with Ukraine. In cooperation with our partners in the European Union, policy priorities should be swiftly redesigned, and rapid economic assistance should be provided to the new and pro-European government in Ukraine. The European Union must also give a clear signal to Ukraine that Ukraine may in future become a Member State of the European Union if Ukraine so wishes and if necessary to implement the necessary reforms. Ladies and gentlemen, The decision of September Armenia to join the Russian-led customs union and the decision of November Ukraine to suspend the signing of the Association Agreement with the European Union indicate the need for changes in the current Eastern Partnership policy of the European Union. Unfortunately, from the outset, there have been a number of factors in this policy which have hindered the achievement of the strategic objective. I bring out four main reasons why I believe that the current Eastern Partnership policy has been blocked. These obstacles need to be corrected. Firstly, the Eastern Partnership countries differ in size as well as in historical and cultural backgrounds, and therefore cannot be framed by the financing of common policies and activities. The latter have been rather symbolic, which is not in line with the Community's strategic objective. While the European Union has spent EUR 2.5 billion on the Eastern Partnership over the last three years, Moldova alone owed Russia EUR 3 billion for gas and Russia's annual assistance to Belarus was EUR 10 billion. Secondly, the European Union has not been prepared to offer the Eastern partners belonging to Europe an accession perspective. Understandably, this would be rather theoretical at the moment, but it would still be completely legal and in keeping with the Copenhagen criteria for the future. Thirdly, the European Union's foreign policy has sometimes become overly bureaucratic, which prevents the formulation and achievement of strategic objectives on the whole. The policy is dissipated in the Member States' choir and the least possible is always agreed. Fourthly, the European Union still does not have a consistent Russian policy of common interest. It should be stressed that the neighbourhood of free and rule of law countries cannot be a threat to Russia seeking modernisation. The above events in Ukraine provide a good opportunity to strengthen the Eastern Partnership policy. Estonia has an undoubted role to play here. The Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs has been and will continue to support the government in shaping new policy recommendations. Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, the foreign relations of the Riigikogu are not just the property of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Estonian MEPs are active as members of foreign delegations and groups of friends as well as individually in their relations with their external colleagues. This is often unnoticed work, but the importance of parliamentary diplomacy must not be underestimated. This is why I would like to thank all my fellow Members who have contributed to the promotion of Estonia's interests in a wide world over the last year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U62	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Mart Nutt!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U63	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! More than 20 years ago, when the former Soviet republics signed the Belovezhje Agreement and as a result the CIS was formed, at least in silence, it was agreed to accept the borders between the former republics of the Union. This is perfectly understandable because it is known what the potential risks of conflict will be when border disputes arise. The current situation is that the Georgian-Russian border has not been changed, but two countries recognised by the Russian Federation have been created in Georgia's territory, and more and more talk is being made about the possible division of Ukraine and the unification of some regions with Russia. How do you assess whether this silent arrangement will stand? It must also be borne in mind that Russia has so far not been willing to conclude a border agreement with them. Is there a new potential source of conflict here?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U64	Thank you. This is certainly a very important issue. We know that at the beginning of the 1990s, especially after the collapse of the Soviet Union, a number of agreements were concluded between countries which stressed the importance of territorial integrity. In the context of the events in Ukraine, I recall that in 1994 Russia, the United States and the United Kingdom signed the Budapest Memorandum, which actually envisaged supporting Ukraine's decision to abandon nuclear weapons. It is known that, after the collapse of the Soviet Union, there were over a thousand nuclear warheads on Ukraine's territory. This memorandum referred, inter alia, to the Helsinki Final Act of 1975 and stressed that the parties would do their utmost not to question the independence and independence of the Ukrainian state. The Russian Federation has also repeatedly stressed the importance of territorial integrity as a central issue of international law in its foreign policy statements and statements. It is certainly a great responsibility for those who make political decisions that call into question the territorial integrity of one country or another. The current events in Ukraine, particularly in Crimea during these hours, are an example of the fact that, in fact, the positions that have been expressed previously or confirmed in the documents are not very respected. I hope that the events that the Speaker of the Ukrainian Parliament and, temporarily, until the elections, the President in office has assessed as a possible aggression against Ukraine will not escalate. It is extremely important that the international community and those in the interest of maintaining a united Ukraine do everything in their power to prevent events from escalating.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U65	Thank you. Please, Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U66	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your presentation. It was particularly nice to hear that you also support the idea of creating a new ministerial post after the next elections, with the aim of dealing with foreign economic policy. I followed Twitter yesterday and saw Alexander Stubb attend the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona. I became jealous because no Estonian minister is there to sell Estonia and support Estonian companies. There was the Finnish Minister of Education, which is also very sympathetic. So that's what my question comes from. What do you think the role of the Estonian Parliament in foreign economic policy could be? As members of the Riigikogu, how can we contribute to strengthening Estonia's position in foreign markets?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U67	Thank you for a good question. I mentioned in my speech that this composition of the Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs, as well as the previous formations, has devoted a great deal of time to how Estonia can coordinate its activities at government and government level in the best way at national level, but also to coordinating the activities of all organisations aimed at foreign markets. In my speech, I referred to the fact that in Finland, a country that sets a good example for us, there has been a platform that brings together organisations in recent years called Team Finland. It's really worth it to follow that example. Of course, each country has its own experience, but I believe that in a very competitive world around Estonia, we certainly have not taken advantage of all the opportunities and resources that we have. Given that our resources are limited and there are few people, including embassies and representations in the world, better coordination for a common goal, including at government level, would produce better results. Of course, exports are one of the most important factors in the Estonian economy, but this is certainly not the only factor that affects our economic growth. The President of the Republic also pointed out on the anniversary of the Republic that the steps we have taken so far may not be able to move forward. I believe that, despite the ongoing electoral campaign that is likely to continue in Estonia until the next parliamentary elections, it would be important to discuss how Estonia could better defend itself in foreign markets and promote its interests there.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U68	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Marko Mihkelson. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Enn Frontland! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U69	Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable guests! There is so much going on in today's world that even mere mention would take an unspoken amount of time. The Minister of Foreign Affairs made a very precise reference to this in his speech. There are enough arguments for and against the European Union alone. Iceland has changed its mind and is no longer interested in joining the European Union. Some Ukrainians have done a great deal and have suffered immeasurably to ensure that their country has the opportunity to become part of the European Union. The Scots and Catalans want to remain in the European Union, but declare themselves independent from Britain and Spain. I will use the time set for our group to analyse one of the main events of this year in the Riigikogu, the rethinking of the border agreements between Estonia and Russia for the ratification of these agreements. In the event of a superficial approach, we could say that by concluding border agreements between Estonia and Russia we have reached where we were in May 2005. The signatories are the same, Paet and Lavrov, the meeting place again in Moscow, the content of the agreements is essentially unchanged. However, in the meantime, we have become richer by a number of experiences and diplomats from two countries have worked hard to make the agreements, the ratification of which at first seemed rather unlikely, acceptable to both parties. Let us not forget that anti-contractual agreements are also against Russia. On the emotional level, I understand the concerns of skeptics quite well. This is a situation where everyone has a kind of right, but not decisively. I, too, have my reservations about the contracts, especially in the general context of Estonian-Russian relations. They are based on long-term life experience and the memory of a politician, which must be long and multi-layered. However, a rigidly black and white approach against the treaties is surprising. I think that in the Riigikogu we have recently followed the blue-black-white principle and considered the subject of agreements to be cross-party. This, however, prevents party and internal policies from being rammed into a solution to a major problem at national level. Unfortunately, things were not the same in 2005. Russia's negotiators, however, are experienced and very professional people. I believe the assurances of our diplomats in this regard, and I am sure that it was not in 2005 and it would not now be possible to achieve a different outcome if the negotiations were to continue. It was set out and decided on short but essentially voluminous sentences in the preamble and text that the treaties only regulate border issues and that two countries do not have territorial requirements for each other. For a long time, together with top lawyers, we considered the conformity of the treaties with the Estonian Constitution. After all, § 122 of the Constitution states that the Estonian land border has been determined by the Tartu Peace Treaty of 2 February 1920 and other international border agreements, while the Estonian sea and air borders are determined by international conventions. After long debates, it is concluded that there is no decisive contradiction between the border agreements and the constitution. After all, the Constitution cannot regulate all relations between countries to the end. Moreover, in the context of bilateral relations, the opinion of the other party, which is often the result of the constitution of that country, must always be taken into account. In my opinion, the birth certificate of the Estonian state is not the Tartu Peace Treaty, but the declaration of independence. Article II of the Tartu Peace Treaty, in which Russia confirmed the recognition of Estonia's independence forever, is still competent. That's all that matters. President Toomas Hendrik Ilves confirms that the border agreements do not affect the legal continuity of the Republic of Estonia and comply with the provision and spirit of our Constitution. In essence, this has been confirmed by our Chancellor of Justice. All other agreements that require regulation and shape relations between the two neighbouring countries are the subject of new negotiations. However, it is certain that the entry into force of border agreements will open up a number of opportunities for both parties to develop beneficial economic, trade and cultural relations. Border agreements provide a favourable legal framework for them. The border control line de facto becomes the border de iure. There are already indications that important visits will take place. In addition to the Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov, several ministers from neighbouring countries and the head of an important office are likely to be expected in Estonia. I hope that the ratification of the double taxation treaty between Estonia and Russia will take place in the State Duma. We have already done so in the Riigikogu. We hope for progress with an emergency and cross-border cooperation agreement. We expect the ban on imports of milk and fishery products and the ban on imports of live animals and pigmeat to be lifted and these tensions will be reduced. I hope that relations will improve as a result of the border agreements will create new opportunities to increase the transport of Russian goods by rail. After all, Estonia's railways and ports have a favourable infrastructure, which provides a high level of service. All of this hopefully revives the Estonian economy, which hungers for small growth. Together with the border agreements, foreign ministers signed a diplomatic real estate agreement and a cooperation agreement between foreign ministries, which, if well-intentioned, could bring a lot of benefits. I think the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu has taken its tasks seriously. Firstly, the call to the government to start the border talks again came from us. Over the years, we have exchanged views at Commission meetings, listened to the comments and presentations of specialists, and slowly approached the decision that allowed the border agreements to be signed in Moscow. The Riigikogu now has to deal with the ratification of the texts of the border agreements. The agreements shall enter into force after 30 days after the exchange of the instruments of ratification. It is possible that this will take place during the visit of the Russian Foreign Minister to Estonia. Following the entry into force of the agreements, the border line shall be marked by the Commission, which shall be established on the basis of Article 5 of the border agreement. As we know, compared to the current baseline, some parcels are transferred to another country, with a total of 128.6 hectares on land and 11.4 square kilometres on lakes. Of these parcels, Saatse is the best known boot, where three old people now live. After the entry into force of the agreements, they can travel peacefully in their home village without fear of entering the territory of a neighbouring country in the meantime. Russia receives a small part of Meremäe and Värska municipality. This country is just as much or as little as Estonia gets from Russia. It took Latvia and Lithuania years to physically delineate the border, and we are unlikely to have any quick solutions. I have just met members of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Russian Federation Council in Tallinn, with whom we discussed the ratification of border agreements in the parliaments of both countries. Our Russian colleagues believe that they do not see any significant obstacles in this process. We have received the same signal from the State Duma Commission, which is aware that Russia and NATO and Russia and the European Union will have a final border, recognised by all parties, with the conclusion of border agreements between the two countries. This is, however, an international achievement that has been welcomed by the leaders of many countries and organisations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U70	Thank you very much. Margus Hanson's speech chair, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U71	Madam President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Guests! Today we can see that Estonia's foreign policy has been successful over the years. All the major foreign policy objectives that have been set have also been achieved. This success has been the result of a cross-party consensus policy for foreign and defence policy decisions, but not only. In foreign communication, continuity bearers, transmissions of the Estonian message, starting with ministry officials and diplomats, and ending with the highest government in the country must not be underestimated. Let it be said that the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs have been in office for almost two democratic electoral cycles, and that is important. The primary objectives of foreign policy are to ensure national security and the well-being of the population. We have significant achievements here, reflected in increasing exports and the expansion of travel opportunities due to visa liberalisation. Although we have never had so many friends and allies before, we must constantly work to ensure security. We contribute to maintaining good partnerships both in NATO and in the European Union. We therefore support the maintenance of defence costs at the current level, which is 2% of GDP, and the participation of Estonian Defence Forces in missions. Then we will be visible, and our Defence Forces will gain cooperation with fellow fighters from other countries. Today, on the 15th anniversary of the Defence College, we are pleased to note that we are also making a serious contribution to international defence cooperation. We are at the forefront of the fight against new threats in cyber defence, both in NATO and more broadly. We are active supporters of the European form of military cooperation, the concept of the European Union's battle groups. We stress that it is important to further develop it so that battle groups can be used quickly in conflicts such as those that have erupted in the Central African Republic. Business diplomacy and a successful foreign economic policy that aims to introduce Estonia as an investment location and to mediate contacts between our entrepreneurs are becoming increasingly important. After all, global competition between countries is growing. Our traditional foreign markets have had economic stagnation for many years. It also has a direct impact on the health of our small economy. Although the situation in our neighbourhood shows signs of improvement, it is now time to look at more distant, growing markets, such as in Asia. Due to our small size and lack of resources, we need to ensure that the authorities are better coordinated, I mean the ministries, the EAS, the Chamber of Commerce, etc. This is necessary in order to succeed in these distant markets. The opening of embassies in Asian countries and the appointment of ambassadors is an important step along this path. The tragic events in Ukraine over the last few months have raised the agenda for the challenges and importance of the European Union's neighbourhood policy. The Eastern Partnership policy, which aims to introduce governance that respects the rule of law and human rights, should be more active and targeted more precisely, with our counterparts in Eastern Europe. Our experience and help in building a modern state can be of great support here. Estonia has achieved a clear image in the European Union and the world. Innovation, reliability, efficiency and rationality are part of this image. We've been spotted, we're known, we're being listened to, it's an image we need to keep. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U72	Thank you. Please, Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U73	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The presentation of the previous speaker began by expressing satisfaction that all Estonia's foreign policy wishes and objectives have been fulfilled. But satisfaction can be sedate, even if he seems justified. I have reminded myself of the former President of America, Jimmy Carter, who, at Christmas 1977, hosted the last Shah of Iran in the White House, called Iran's stability oasis in the otherwise extremely volatile Middle East. The first two pages of the Foreign Minister's presentation today were dedicated to tragic events in Ukraine. On the subject of Ukraine, the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs also spoke long and meaningfully. It is natural, justified and necessary. But I looked at the interest in the Foreign Affairs Minister's presentations last year and last year in the debate on foreign policy as an important national issue. I found that Ukraine was mentioned three times in 2012 and once last year. Two years ago, the Minister of Foreign Affairs said this: 'Last year the negotiations on an association agreement with Ukraine were concluded, but the signing of the agreement depends first and foremost on the internal development of Ukraine. " In 2013, he said that there had been setbacks in the Eastern Partnership. He added: 'We hope that they will be temporary, and we can finally sign an association agreement with Ukraine. If it goes well, we can say in Vilnius that the free trade area will expand with three or four new partners. ' These views are, of course, correct, but unspoken passive. If it goes well, then... What if it doesn't? We will, of course, monitor developments in Ukraine and other countries that are important to us, and we hope that everything will go well. With our modest resources, we have helped and advised, focusing mainly on promoting democracy and supporting the economy. But we must look in the mirror and ask ourselves very critically how powerful we have been as a country in shaping the united positions of the European Union in these areas of extraordinary importance to us. We have always talked about the importance of allies. We have worked in many ways to ensure that we have a good bilateral relationship with the capitals of all the important allied countries and an impeccable continuous access to the important offices of these capitals. We need to critically ask what the dividend received has been. Why, however, has the Eastern Partnership become so marginal among the other political priorities of the European Union, including foreign policy? I agree with the previous speaker that security policy is the central axis of foreign policy for Estonia due to its geographical position and history. The birth of our country's independence, which we just celebrated the 96th anniversary of, but also the subsequent loss and restoration of independence was not born in either a geographical or historical vacuum. All these groundbreaking events, all these cataclysms, were made possible due to major changes, upheavals and crises in Europe, the world and international life. The significance of what is happening in Ukraine is extremely clear to all of us. But that should be a lesson for us, too. Of course, ending violence, real prosecution of those responsible for it, resolving the humanitarian crisis and preserving the integrity of the country are at the heart of the day. However, in the long term, our aim must be to have a much more active influence on the common policy of the European Union and NATO. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U74	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U75	Following World War II, the United States administration launched a massive European aid programme named Marshall's plan, named after the United States Foreign Minister, George Marshall. It was a plan that enjoyed the support of both major parties, as there was a sense of existential danger from the aggressive attack of communist regimes on Western Europe. This plan was carried out because it was existentially important. The European Union must also overcome the current passiveness, the attitude that, in principle, our door may be at a bit of a standstill for you sometime in the distant future if you do everything before that. As Estonians and as politicians of the Republic of Estonia, we must admit to ourselves that Ukraine is almost existentially important to our security as well. It is important for us to establish Estonia's position in Europe, even Estonia's leading position in this matter. This must be one of the priorities of our foreign policy. This must be a priority not only when the crisis has already exploded, but long before it, and certainly also when this crisis is resolved. Limited time does not allow all important foreign policy issues to be addressed. Finally, I welcome the fact that the border agreement with Russia has been signed by foreign ministers. The conclusion of the border agreement was a programmed principle for social democrats already before the elections of the Riigikogu. I welcome the initiative of the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to bring together all parliamentary parties in order to give the government a mandate to resume negotiations on the border agreement. I also acknowledge the work done by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and diplomats. I really hope we don't get caught up in problems like eight or nine years ago in this hall. Then the breakdown of the government and the emergence of a new government created a situation in which a preamble was added to the law on ratification of the border treaty, which gave the other party the pretext to withdraw its signature. I believe we have learned from this. I hope that this long-standing failure to do so, which has hampered our bilateral relations with our countries, will be brought under line during this Parliament's membership. I do not think that this will solve all the problems in our bilateral relations, nor do I believe that it will solve all the differences in the interpretation of history and the definition of geopolitical interests, but it is certainly an important step in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U76	Thank you very much. I'm asking for Mart Nut's speech chair! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U77	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Over the last two decades, the world has undergone fundamental changes. There are fewer military conflicts between countries. The Russian-Georgian war has remained the last war between the two countries. I hope this will be the last. Can we conclude from this that the world has become safer than it was 20 years ago? I'd rather not. Conflicts have been transferred into countries, intertwined by national groups and international players. The difference between foreign policy and domestic policy has become blurry in all parts of the world. There is no clearly drawing line between themselves and enemies, there have been worrying shifts towards disadvantage in the situation of the security of civilians, especially women and children. The last two genocides in Bosnia and Rwanda that have stunned the world have been 20 years ago, but this has not meant an end to crimes against humanity. South Sudan and Darfur, Liberia, Congo, North Korea, Syria, this list can unfortunately continue for quite a long time. Thus, even more than ever, the human rights situation in crisis regions and the joint efforts of countries, international organisations and civil society organisations to protect and safeguard human rights still exist. Against this background, the praiseworthy work of the International Criminal Court, in which Estonia has actively participated, must be acknowledged. Estonia's activities in the UN Human Rights Council must also be recognised. In recent years, international attention has been more focused on Africa than before. Many African countries have been restless for decades. There have been ethnic conflicts, power struggles and poverty-induced clashes between people in different fields of activity. Yet, religious, or rather religious, motivated violence is increasingly giving rise to the tone in Africa. Its roots are partly in history, but even more in international terrorism. The situation in Mali has been brought under control, but the balance is extremely fragile. At the same time, we must recognise that this balance was possible because international forces supported the Malian Government. Only a few days ago, extremists in Nigeria executed children who refused to bend to their medieval methods. A conflict has developed in the Central African Republic that could explode into genocide. We too have voices against helping the Central African Republic: this country is far away and has nothing to do with us; it is dangerous there; why we have to risk it; the situation is so hopeless that international aid does not improve anything. This is the way ordinary citizens think, but such arguments should not be used by politicians. There are no more distant places in the world; all countries, wherever they are, are closely linked. Events in the Central African Republic may have an indirect but clear effect on Estonia as well. Of course it's dangerous, but if it wasn't dangerous, there wouldn't be any need for international help. Will this help? We do not know how much this will help, but it will certainly help to protect human lives and ensure human rights. This is a moral issue for a democratic state. Estonia does the right thing when it contributes to peace throughout the world, not just in its neighbourhood. The Arab Spring has reached a tragic act in Syria. Over 100,000 victims point to a full-scale civil war. Unlike the Central African Republic, external military intervention does not seem to have a really positive effect. In a country like Syria, the solution would still be an active effort by the parties, as well as by some major powers, to contribute to peace. The events of the last few months of Ukraine have shocked all people in Estonia. The turn of these events into violence is highly regrettable. The resignation of the President and the announcement of the new presidential elections are the only possible way in this situation. But is that enough? Unfortunately, the threat of violence is not over. The encouragement of separatism continues in several regions of Ukraine and it is unacceptable that it will be amplified on some sides of the border. After the Dayton Peace Treaty, there was hope that such crises in Europe would be in the past, but unfortunately this is not the case. Europe must also continue to contribute to security. Unlike the collapse of the Soviet Union, the splitting of Ukraine would be a geopolitical disaster. The Fatherland and Res Publica Union have always supported Ukraine, supported it during the Orange Revolution, still supporting it today. The IRL supports the restoration of democratic state power in Ukraine, honest administration and the control of corruption. Ukraine needs the support of a democratic world. Estonia has done a lot in recent years to support Ukraine. However, it seems to us that the European Union's support should have been stronger. It is possible that Ukraine now needs this support more than ever. We therefore call on the European Union institutions, as well as the Member States, to contribute more actively to the peaceful, democratic and fair future of the united Ukraine. Without free and democratic Ukraine, freedom and democracy are not cloudless anywhere in Europe. There are many places in the world where the situation is explosive or could develop. Collisions are once again ravaged by Venezuela. In North Korea, the dictator executes thousands and enslaves tens of thousands of citizens of his country every year. The world has been too calmly watching human rights violations, discrimination and violence in many regions. But that's not how it should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U78	Thank you very much. Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U79	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Our speech on foreign policy today is obviously inclined towards Ukraine, which is why I am not going to mention some of the issues. I agree with the comments made by the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Eastern Partnership. These countries are indeed very different and require a much more nuanced approach from us. I am less in agreement with what the previous speakers have said about the border agreement, but I will also leave this issue unchecked. In his introduction to the Ukrainian people, the Minister of Foreign Affairs expressed his condolences for the victims. I think we're all gonna join in. Yes, it was appalling when events that required so many sacrifices took place near us. Essentially, these victims were caused by the conduct of state authority. But let us also think for a moment that if President Yanukovych were to remain in power and not to be called a wanted criminal, then the Western countries would probably consider him a partner to seek out the interface of opinions in order to stabilise the situation. So fragile is the line in politics. I think that there are adequate assessments of the situation now, because the Ukrainian leadership at the time has bloodguilt. Once again, I express my concern about the territorial integrity of this country. I fear that Russia's geopolitical ambitions are still threatening this. The Western world must have opportunities in its back pocket to resist it. I admire the courage of the Ukrainian people in expressing their European aspirations since the end of November when there was an unexpected change towards the customs union. In addition to what has been said, I will make an additional or marginal remark. Firstly, policy consistency. Yes, the heel turn made by the Ukrainian leadership during the Vilnius Summit was their decision and can be considered formally legitimate. I would stress that it was formally legitimate, because democratic legitimacy was actually put at risk. Something was done that was completely unexpected for the Ukrainian public and the people. That's what caused the events that followed. May this be a lesson to all who seek to make a policy in this way against the will of their people. It's dangerous. Secondly, parliamentarianism. There has not been any talk about this today, but I think the Riigikogu is the best place to emphasise it. I am extremely pleased with the developments that have taken place in Verkhovna Rada, Ukraine, over the last few days. We have criticised the elections and the working culture of this Parliament, but its members continued to be determined to stop the dictator, to stop him before he might have stopped Parliament. This is extremely important. It speaks, among other things, of how important Parliament is in politics at all. After all, it was precisely the members of the Party of the Regions who turned their backs on Janukovych and his methods in time. Finally, I'm gonna stop... I'm probably gonna need a little more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U80	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U81	... The willingness of European countries to intervene and help, leaving aside the fact that the European Union and Russia use completely different policies in their arsenal. From time to time, I have the feeling that one side, or the European Union, is playing an intellectual board game, be it chess or checkers, but the other side is playing hockey or something like that. However, apart from this, we must largely agree with the analyses that have been carried out here and which show that the Russian agenda has been more important in Ukraine than in the European Union. So, to a large extent, we have given up the initiative that, fortunately, now Ukraine itself, the Ukrainian people and politicians have, to some extent, taken back for us. It is likely that, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out, we have not been able to make clear to our European partners that opening up the European Union's perspective to such countries would help us further in influencing the policies of these countries. I also very much agree with what Sven Mikser said, asking questions about how active we have actually been and what are the lessons that we should conclude from what happened in Ukraine. But using a more optimistic tone, I stress that the new situation is actually a very big opportunity. In order to convince our partners to be more decisive, a new impetus and clearer action is needed. In addition, there has been a completely new opportunity to persuade Ukrainian politicians to quickly remedy the shortcomings in the country's legal system, which has been mentioned for years, to ensure separation of powers and the independence of the judiciary, and to take other steps to build up the rule of law. These steps have long been awaited by the Ukrainian people and have been awaited by partners in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-27_U82	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The item is closed. We're not gonna make a decision. I would like to thank everyone who prepared the item. Many thanks to the Minister, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, all listeners. Have a nice day. Today's trial is over. Closure of the sitting at 12.17 p.m.
