ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-20_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the Monday session of the second working week of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Colleagues, there is now an opportunity to pass on drafts and enquiries. First of all, the representative of the Government of the Republic of Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-20_U2	Madam Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching four draft laws today. First, the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Penal Register Act, the Act implementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, the State Fees Act, the State Secrets and the Secret Foreign Information Act and the State Legal Aid Act. Hanno Pevkur, Minister of Justice, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Secondly, the draft law amending the Defence League Act, the Defence Forces Service Act and the Act implementing the Defence Forces Service Act. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Defence, will represent the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Thirdly, the draft law amending the Law on Health and Safety at Work. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu in Taavi Rõiva, Minister of Social Affairs. Fourthly, Protocol 15 on the Amendment to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, draft law on ratification. Urmas Paet, Minister of Foreign Affairs, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-20_U3	Thank you. Please, colleague Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-20_U4	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, It is my honour, on behalf of the Socialist Group, to pass on a draft decision proposing to the Government of the Republic to develop by 1 July 2014 a system of guaranteeing maintenance payments, which will ensure that child maintenance payments are received on time. The institution that is to be created would pay the parent raising the child on time and would charge them to the parent with the obligation to pay the child. At present, the state and the public sector have not been able to cope with the task of providing every child with a livelihood from a separate parent. As the Chancellor of Justice's children's ombudsman, he has stressed that the failure to pay a living, which is mostly the responsibility of fathers, is a very serious problem in Estonia, which primarily affects children and their well-being. In Estonia, the parent raising the child is solely responsible for monitoring payment obligations and taking measures in case of non-payment of money. The Social Democrats are of the opinion that maintenance is not a matter for parents, since monthly maintenance is assigned to a child. Almost all countries have an institution that collects and pays maintenance payments. We can therefore rely to a large extent on international practice. In most countries, the system includes the so-called guaranteed maintenance allowance paid in case of non-compliance with the agreement. The state institution may recover it from the defaulting parent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-20_U5	Thank you. Please, my colleague Lauri Laasi!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-20_U6	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, If we didn't ask the Minister for Economic Affairs Juhan Parts today, I think Juhan Parts would be upset tonight. On behalf of the Group of the Centre Party, I will report an inquiry to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts. We'll ask him about Rail Baltic developments. Rail Baltic's idea is almost 20 years old. Already published in 1994, the "Vision and Strategies of the Baltic Sea States for 2010" reflected the train connection crossing the Baltic States as an important element in the spatial development of the Baltic Sea region. The coordination of plans and the assessment of environmental impacts have now been achieved. These processes are expected to be completed by 2015. At international level, the aim is to agree by the end of 2015 on common principles that partner countries will base their planning process on. In order for the European Union to co-finance the project, the Baltic States must act quickly, because if Rail Baltic construction has not started by 2016, the Baltic States may lose their euro money. In this regard, we have three questions for the Minister. In particular, we are interested in the cooperation we have had with our Latvian and Lithuanian colleagues so far and in how far the agreement on the common principles of the project has been reached. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-20_U7	Thank you. Please, my colleague Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-20_U8	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Democratic Party Group has an inquiry to report to Home Secretary Ken-Marti Vaher. This inquiry is due to the publication of El Pais, one of the largest national newspapers in Spain, which was published in the Estonian press on 17 January 2014. In fact, an interview was published in this paper with Alberto Hart, the advisor of the Peruvian anti-drug agency, who announced that the Baltic countries, including Estonia, have become a new transit country for drug cartels in South America. Given that the article contained a great many details of how this activity takes place in Peru, and that Peru is the largest producer of cocaine in South America, the statements of such a high official are of considerable concern. We therefore have five questions for the Minister of the Interior. First of all, it is important to find out whether there are any grounds for such a charge. What can our Minister of the Interior say about this, and what does statistics show? What role does Estonia play in drug transit in South America? What can we see from our respective criminal proceedings and what is the Minister of the Interior going to do to respond to such accusations and improve Estonia's reputation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-20_U9	On behalf of the board, I have adopted five draft laws and two inquiries. If the draft laws comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board decides to process them within three working days, and if the enquiries comply with that law, I shall forward them immediately to the addressees. Now the messages. The Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the procedure of Andres Herkeli, a member of the Riigikogu. a draft law amending the European Parliament Election Act and other laws, initiated on 15 January, and appointed the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as the commission. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. a a a draft Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 January amending Directive 94/62/EC on packaging and packaging waste in order to reduce the consumption of lightweight plastic carrier bags to the Commission for European Union Affairs. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the Committee on the Environment and the Economic Commission to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and the draft directive. The deadline for the submission of opinions shall be s. 15 January 2010 at 4 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, please let's do a presence check. 87 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 14. Let's go to the adoption of this week's agenda. The agenda is on your desks. I shall put this week's agenda to the vote. Please vote! 83 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the adoption of the agenda, with no votes against or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-20_U10	Let's start working on the Monday agenda points. Answering questions begins. Firstly, there is the discussion of the members of the Riigikogu Kalle Laaneti, Inara Luigas, Deniss Borodichi, Lembit Kaljuvee, Kalev Kotkas, Jaan Õunapuu, Rainer Vakra, Jevgeni Ossinovski and Karel Rüütel's hearing on the future of ferry traffic on 3 December last year. Mr Kalle Laaneti, I would like to ask you to speak with Mr Kalle Laaneti.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-20_U11	Ladies and gentlemen, Good manager! Minister Ligi! On 3 December last year, nine members of the Riigikogu submitted an inquiry to Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. Motivated by concerns about the future of ferry traffic and the desire to be informed about the proposed changes, the Association of the islands of the Riigikogu has addressed the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications with a request for information on new developments in ensuring ferry connections. Regrettably, the Ministry's response has been ignored and formal. We therefore addressed the Minister of Finance. We asked the Minister of Finance five questions. The questions are as follows: Has the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications approached the Minister of Finance to discuss the financing scheme for the acquisition of four ships? Does the four ferry acquisition scheme proposed by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications not fall under State aid principles? In the opinion of the Minister of Finance, how does the Port of Tallinn guarantee the average annual profitability of this project in an open market economy? Is the public procurement for the design, construction and delivery of four new ships on 1 January 2016 not hopelessly delayed? To be clear, the correct date should be 1 October 2016. After the second reading of this year's state budget, the Riigikogu increased the Circa by 600000 euros with the aim of tightening the timetables. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has not followed the use of the target funding approved by the Riigikogu. How does the Minister of Finance assess the conduct of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-20_U12	Thank you very much. Mr Jürgen Ligi, ladies and gentlemen, can I have the floor?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-20_U13	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! The first question: 'Has the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications approached you to discuss the financing scheme for the acquisition of 4 ships? " The answer is yes. On September 26, the cabinet was also known to discuss the matter. The second question: Does the 4 ferry acquisition scheme proposed by MKM not fall under State aid principles? ' It has to be checked. To this end, the European Commission must be consulted and authorised by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. Should this scheme fall under this restriction, an authorisation to grant State aid must be applied for. There's nothing very unusual about that. The third question: 'How do you think the Port of Tallinn guarantees the average annual profitability of the relevant sector for an open market economy project? 'A precondition for avoiding State aid is that profitability is market-based. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, partner of the Port of Tallinn, must ensure that it is in place for economics. It's about freight charges, and so on. Question 4: "Is the public procurement for the design, construction and delivery of four new ships on 1 January 2016 not delayed by hope? " As the heir explained, we are talking about September 30th. 30 September is the last deadline for 1 October. You can't rest assured of that. The cabinet, of course, also expressed doubts about this. If this arrangement fails, then the Ministry of Economic Affairs will have to arrange an interim procurement. The alternative is the construction of ships with a later maturity. However, it cannot be ruled out that the owners of existing ships are participating in the competition. Question 5: 'Even after the second reading of the state budget, the Riigikogu increased the ferry rates by about 600,000 euros in order to tighten the timetables. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has not followed the use of the target funding approved by the Riigikogu. How do you assess MKM's actions? ' First of all, the schedules are sealed. Specific figures may be overconfirmed by the Ministry of Economic Affairs. But giving money from the state budget is only a presumption that it will all be used up, there is no obligation to use all the money. All the time, we need to assess the feasibility of using the money and see what the real need is. I do not believe that the Riigikogu's allocation of money was more accurate than the Ministry of Economic Affairs. So the money's spent well. If not all are spent, then less has been done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-20_U14	Thank you very much, Minister. You have questions. Please, Mr Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-20_U15	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much for your answers. I fully agree with you that state money must be used very conscientiously. However, I think it would have been reasonable if the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, finding that so much money was not needed, had come to the Riigikogu and told the MPs. But I wanted to ask you a different angle instead. I am interested that if the state-owned company, via its subsidiary TS Shipping, takes out a loan for the purchase of ferry vessels, will this loan then be included in the Estonian state debt.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-20_U16	Thank you. With regard to the introduction, however, I would say that there is no obligation on the executive authorities to spend money to the last cent or to report why they do not spend exactly the prescribed amount on each particular item. The report will be given when the Riigikogu is interested in the subject. We are dealing with a cost forecast based on a state budget based on some kind of regulation, in this case the will of the Riigikogu. But it is unrealistic to think that the Riigikogu knew exactly that 600000 euros is the exact limit of the solution to the problem. The competence of the Riigikogu should be realistic. This is not an executive. He is unable to fix these figures so accurately and to give such precise responsibilities to the executive. Now for the question of yourself. You were interested in the debt burden. The idea is, however, that the loan taken by the state firm will certainly not be subject to the loan burden. The subsidies paid to him are still running costs. Of course, the scheme must be accurate, no mistakes should be made here. But this company doesn't belong to the government sector, and the subsidies paid to it are running costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-20_U17	Thank you. Please, Mr Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-20_U18	Thank you, Madam President. Austet Minister of Finance! Did the government discuss the potential need to rebuild ferry ports with the issue of new ferry ships? The shore ramps of state-owned ferry ports have been built for current ships.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-20_U19	Thank you. No, the government doesn't discuss such a thing. We are not like this government of the past that had to discuss all the technical issues. The budget reflects the principle of whether or not to finance an agreement. This 'business plan' is what the government is discussing. What kind of quay is needed exactly, its decision is certainly not the role of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-20_U20	Please, colleague Paul-Eerik Rummo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-20_U21	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. You mentioned the need to consult the European Commission on whether this is a step that is covered by State aid. Experience tends to show that answers and explanations from the European Commission are not coming very quickly. Has this question been asked and, if so, when can it be answered?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-20_U22	Thank you. This should still be a question for the Ministry of Economic Affairs. I'm not quite familiar with their current activities. You have to ask them. But that's what they do. It takes time, too. I do not rule out that there is no problem here, but it must be confirmed by the European Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-20_U23	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. I am opening negotiations and I would like to ask my colleague, Kalle Laaneti, to speak on the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-20_U24	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I am concerned and think that very many people living on islands are concerned. The talk that has been said in recent times about the future of ferry traffic has been very different, even from the wall to the wall. They're trying to say there's nothing to worry about. Everything's gonna be okay. I'm sure it will, but how much it will cost the taxpayer in the end is a big question mark. The recent decisions of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, for example, about the Estonian Air, where we have put 85 million euros in taxpayers' money, or the disputes between South Western Railway and Elron are seriously worrying. I am of the opinion that ferry traffic must be at reasonable prices for the people of Estonia, and this traffic must be at current or even better levels. That must be the purpose. Why people try to talk about certain things half-truths, why they don't talk about things the way things are, which is confusing, is an important question for me and many people. These people are asking me. I very much hope that the issues of ferry traffic will be clarified in the future, people will be given clearer answers and members of the Riigikogu will also receive information, especially from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-20_U25	Thank you very much, Mr Kalle Laane. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-20_U26	The next question is an inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu, Kadri Simson, Mailis Reps, Yana Toomi, Priit Toobali, Tarmo Tamme, Lauri Laasi and Aivar Riisalu, on 9 December last year. My colleague Kadri Simson of the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-20_U27	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. As the Chairman of the Riigikogu has just said, seven members of the Riigikogu have submitted an inquiry to the Minister of Finance, the subject of which is land tax exemption. From time to time, it happens that the Riigikogu adopts laws with the votes of the Reform Party and the IRL, which, as it later turns out, are either less or more broken. The legitimate land tax exemption also raises problems. The associations directly concerned by this issue (the Taxpayers' Association and the Home Owners' Association) have called on homeowners to submit complaints to the administrative court because land tax is not fair to all homeowners and does not treat them all equally. We're talking about homes in different buildings. Some homes are located, for example, in an apartment building with commercial premises on the lower floors. In particular, there are such apartment buildings in the centres of large cities as well as in the centres of smaller cities. Therefore, all land belonging to this apartment building is partly commercial land, but only residential land is eligible for land tax exemption. So although a person lives in an apartment that is his only home and is certainly not above the threshold, he still receives a land tax notice every spring from the tax office and has to pay land tax for the business space on the first floor or on the second floor. The second problem concerns the land tax exemption ceiling for co-owners. There are quite a number of houses in Estonia where the first floor belongs to one family and the second floor to another. If this house is simply co-owned, it is not foreseen that both families would receive 1500 square metres of relief from the land under their homes, but that 1500 square metres would be split in two, and both families would receive tax relief from just 750 square metres. In many cases, this may mean a duty to pay land tax on the land under your home country. A similar situation arises when such a house is an object of inheritance distribution if all heirs are co-owners. Thus, only legal differences cause the number of land tax-free land under home. Last year, as many as 22 homeowners turned to the administrative court with such a complaint. It was considered that the exemption from land tax was not equally guaranteed to all homeowners. The first court settlement was published on 18 October. The Court found that the provision of the exemption ceiling of the Land Tax Act was incompatible with the Constitution, as it created unequal treatment for homeowners. The Supreme Court is still subject to constitutional review, but the failure of the law is still visible. This failure has not been able to improve for a whole year the party that kindly made the promises. This should therefore be done by the Ministry of Finance, which has the most administrative resources to do so. That is why we are asking the Minister for Finance what the Ministry will do about this. We are also interested in the fact that if nothing is done, how many more judgments this year will be possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-20_U28	Thank you very much, Mr Simson. Once again, I would like to ask the Minister for Finance for the premiere.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-20_U29	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! In his introduction to justice, the heir spoke. I suggest that you be very careful when you talk about this, because here, in fact, the question arises as to whether those who do still have to give more and whether it is fair. Can you, for example, limit the revenue base of local governments simply to one political idea? There are many contradictions that arise as a result of any tax exemption. That is why I personally am very critical of almost all tax exemptions. The tax-free minimum can also create a huge issue of justice, as those who do not have sufficient income will lose their public service because the state will receive less money. But now to the questions. The first question: "What is the Ministry of Finance planning to do to resolve the two main problems identified in the inquiry? " The Ministry of Finance is not planning a change of law. If the Court really entrusts us with this task, then the state budget, but above all the municipal budgets, will receive less money again and then we will have to think about what to do with this tax exemption. But in principle it must be stressed that land tax is not a head tax, land tax is an object of a piece of land. The amount of the land tax does not depend on whether the land is built or the buildings for which it is used. According to the Law of Property Act, each co-owner pays land tax on land for the purpose of commercial and residential land in proportion to the size of the apartment property for both residential and commercial land. The purpose of the tax credit for the land in question was to reduce the tax burden to a certain limit and not to eliminate the land tax at all. In fact, the Law established the purpose of the housing land as a prerequisite for obtaining land tax exemption. On 14 February 2013, the Chancellor of Justice wrote to the Committee on Monetary Affairs that the establishment of a criterion for the purpose of obtaining an exemption from land tax is in accordance with the Constitution. There must always be some criterion, for all tax exemptions, as I said, there is a problem of how to delimit them. According to the Ministry of Finance, land tax exemptions are equally guaranteed for all landowners, and apartment ownership and co-owned land is exempted from land tax for 1500 square metres. The second question: 'What other legislative changes can be expected with regard to land tax? " There are no major changes in the plan directly related to land tax; there are no political agreements to do so. On 9 December 2013, the government submitted a draft law amending the Land Tax Act to the Riigikogu, which has now been sent to the first reading. In short, the content of this draft is as follows. The land tax on non-reformed countries shall be calculated on the basis of the cost of taxation of non-dedicated land. Local authorities are obliged to provide the basic data necessary for calculating land tax to the Tax and Customs Board from 2015 through the Land Tax Information System. A list of countries of public use shall be established. In the event of entry into force of the draft law, no land tax shall be payable on land for the purpose of public land and on land on the basis of a public water body, a public water body and a public road. The law is due to enter into force on 1 January 2015. Question 3: 'How many land tax litigations are you forecasting in 2014? " We are not dealing with the forecasting of the number of litigations. I'm sure it's unfair to say that the government is sending a crack. There may be different opinions about draft laws, but it's unfair to say that you're being sent here. The exemption from the tax on homeland is known to be a highly controversial measure, both in social terms and in terms of delimitation. Here comes the disputes that lawyers have to settle. The Court deals with borderline cases, but it does not assess the substance of the measure, such as its social relevance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-20_U30	Thank you very much, Minister. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-20_U31	Thank you. Minister of Finance! I know your skeptical mindset about the loss of land tax, but my question is still about those apartment owners who live in an apartment building that has either a pharmacy, an office or any business space on the ground floor. I think there could be thousands of apartments like this. People living in them have to pay land tax, but another person who lives in a much larger house without such business space does not have to pay it. How many of these judgments do you have to have to look at this issue? Home is home. If compensation is to be granted in the form of a land tax exemption, it should be granted to each homeowner.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-20_U32	Thank you. A home is indeed a home, except that there is no such legal distinction that a home does not have to pay a tax, nowhere. There is no legal definition of home in law at all. So, anyway, this political idea must be put into an enforceable form and not converted into a land tax principal. This is not the way to confuse different taxes, that the more people live there, the more land there is tax-free. If there is business land under the house, it makes sense that either the land's destination will be changed or the business that operates there will pay the land tax. This is a matter of market regulation. There are business premises in my home, too, but I haven't been able to shed any tears about someone paying a land tax there. The amount of land tax in the apartment building is very small. It is a question of how these rental premises share this tax burden. No one has said that the land under business must be tax-free. It doesn't make any sense. I refer once again to international experts who consider land tax to be a very fair tax that is well received, safe for the economy and also positive in terms of ensuring more efficient use of limited resources. That is the economic point of this tax; there is no spite here. The state budget or the municipal budget is not a garbage can. We should not see terrible injustices in the fact that someone has to pay for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-20_U33	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-20_U34	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I understand you confirmed there were questions. Judging from an inquiry, specific nuances are causing problems. However, I did not receive an answer to the question of whether the Ministry intends to respond to the problems that you yourself have confirmed. If he reacts, what will he do, and how long will it take? Or is he going to keep these problems frozen right now, using this method?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-20_U35	Thank you. The ministry is going to react as much as the court forces us. But we have never once praised this law as a very noble measure. In fact, taxes could still be collected from where they are most fair and where they are the safest for the economy. We do not aim for an endless land tax exemption, for example, so that if 50 people move into an apartment, they all benefit from the exemption. This liver is not the main charge. Let's see what the court says, and we'll work it out.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-20_U36	Please, colleague Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-20_U37	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. It is known that residential land is exempt from tax. The second condition is that it must be a homeland, or a home for a person. But there are so many residential areas where no one has a home. Some people have several properties, etc. Can you tell me what percentage of all housing is exempt, i.e. somebody's homeland? Can you say that percentage?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-20_U38	Thank you. Oh, you can't do that in the head. But I would like to ask you how you can begin to praise the progressive income tax here if you support progressive non-taxation in the case of land and support the land tax exemption for the most wealthy people, in particular Tallinn's sweetest plots. I understand those who are right-wing and consider it fair, but I don't understand you. Put what you're applying for in the system. In Tallinn, if I am not mistaken, the price of taxation of land in the so-called sweeter districts is 700 euros, whereas somewhere in South Estonia it is more like 70 euros than that. You might want to ask these questions from a different angle, given your view of the weather you have declared.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-20_U39	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-20_U40	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. The land tax in local governments is 0.1 to 2.5% of the value of the land tax. As I recall, it has never been adjusted. Are we going to live another 10-15 years with these rates, or do you have a view of it? Do you need a change here?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-20_U41	Thank you. I have a view of land tax, of course, but I don't have to declare it as finance minister until it becomes a government program. But it is clear that there will be no change in this system in the near future. I think these coefficients are not the biggest issue in land tax regulation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-20_U42	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. I'm opening negotiations. I'll call my colleague, Kadri Simson, to the speaker's desk.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-20_U43	I come here unprepared for the chair, and only because Jürgen Ligi, in his usual arrogance, blamed us for something we're not guilty of. My colleague, Kalev Kallo, pointed out very well in his question that not all residential land in Estonia is a residential area. Some apartments or houses are the second, third or fourth property of the owner and are subject to land tax. Some apartments or houses are owned by those who have not registered as residents in Estonia, but live somewhere else, and land tax is also payable for these apartments or houses. This was the correct question as to how much the abolition of the tax on the land under the land has now led to the land tax being removed from the municipal budgets. The questioning of the Centre Party was not whether it should give gifts to the most wealthy. As we know, this has not been our principle. But if a coalition partner has made such a promise, it should not be said that if people live in Võru, Valga or Kohtla-Järve, for example, or why not in Pärnu, Tallinn or Tartu in an apartment building that has a grocery store on the ground floor since the building was built, or a barber shop, why not a pharmacy, then the economic situation of these people would be better than for people living in a private house. They certainly should not be blamed for living too well. Look at the luxury, there's a business on the ground floor! These people are now taxed on land tax, although their home should not be taxed on it, because that was the Coalition's promise. So we didn't want to argue at all whether the land tax exemption was a gift to the wealthiest. Probably is. But if the government is already giving such gifts, people living in apartment buildings should not be treated differently. These people should not be treated any differently than private owners. This knowledge will probably arrive at the Ministry through court judgments, and some sort of solution will come. But some Mondays, the ministers will have better times, and then these discussions will be more meaningful here. So thank you for your attention and I hope that this year the problem will still be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-20_U44	Thank you very much, Mr Simson. The Minister of Finance would also like to say his word.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-20_U45	Honourable heirs! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! So I'm going to repeat this familiar story that I wasn't going to come here, either, but you see, that's what happened. I wouldn't have wanted to use adjectives about the questioners in any way, but since they were using adjectives about me, I'll continue in the same style. Kadri, in her usual meanness, put words in my mouth and even put words in my mouth. I didn't notice the questioner asking me how much money goes out of the budget because of this law. That's just not the question. Secondly, I have not given the answers that were claimed, but I have given substantive answers. It was a substantive debate I was trying to create. In the case of apartment buildings, there is no way to talk about a very high land tax burden. This may be a question of a few even houses with few owners or a row house, but also in more prosperous areas. It is not such a social issue that it should be presented here by means of hyperbola. However, the land tax is a really big problem in Tallinn. This is mainly Tallinn's problem. Ask other elected or resident delegates. You may have been chosen elsewhere, but you live in Tallinn. In fact, it is still the problem of Tallinn's most prosperous regions, that at times the tax is very high. I'm sorry, I don't want to be politically opposed, but the local government reacted to this bill, which, as far as I know, raised the commercial space to the maximum of land tax, and ultimately came out of it as a winner. The higher tax was also imposed on those whose dwelling or apartment is partly located in commercial land. Once again, this is not a charge that should be dealt with on a personal basis. It makes perfect sense that it has been dealt with from the beginning by plot. I don't feel very happy because there's a barbershop under my house, some kind of computer business, and something else, but I think if regulation is like that, these companies should pay the land tax. I think so. Can justice be achieved in any particular case? Is it possible to do that if the Minister of Finance lives on top of the barbershop, he will make a law that will make all these houses exempt from tax? I live here, you build your factories under my house, and I'll exempt you from tax! Maybe I'll take a little bribe. Still take the tax debate in essence and don't label the person who's trying to develop a debate with you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-20_U46	Thank you very much, Minister. I'm closing the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-20_U47	Colleagues! After my hammer strike, it is possible to register for speaking in a free microphone. Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-20_U48	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I came here to tell you about a very pleasant event in which Estonia has had the opportunity to participate for 21 years. The international food fair is taking place in Berlin, which lasts ten days and is a very important event. Estonia has a gold card there this time, as I have already said. We had the opportunity to organise the opening ceremony and to advertise Estonia and Estonian products there. Very many members of the Riigikogu, including members of the Rural Affairs Committee, had the opportunity to participate. It was a great pleasure to watch a presentation organized for 5,000 people. There was a cultural program and, of course, 5,000 people from all over the world were also catered. It must be said that when the cultural programme remained somewhat weak, the tasty food compensated it. I've had some super-positive feedback about this night. I will bring out the statistics for this event. Its beginning dates back to 1926. True, during the war, the trade fairs were canceled. Estonia has participated in this fair since 1993 and since 1998 it has been organised by the Estonian Chamber of Agriculture and Commerce. He therefore has very long experience in how to introduce the Estonian food industry, tourism and our organic products to the Germans. This year, too, our choice was wonderful. Fish products, rye bread, beer, Vana Tallinn were represented, without which you cannot go to the German market, and cheese. Why am I bringing it out? The Germans value quality food. They have also developed quality assessment systems according to which two signs have been created for the Estonian food market: swallow and clover. In 2013, the first Estonian products were awarded a medal for the two E-Pima cheese varieties, one for the bronze and the other for the gold medal. These historically important products were available on the Estonian stand. The Germans know how to appreciate such things. 70 countries participated in the Food Fair. This year too, 500,000 people are expected to attend the fair. The Messiah's area is 124000 square meters large. These figures are colossal. It is nice that Estonia has had the opportunity to participate there and Estonia is well known thanks to this fair. I'm gonna take this opportunity to thank the people from the remote who organized all this. I would like to thank the Estonian Association of Chefs, the Estonian Chamber of Agriculture and Commerce, the Ministry of Agriculture and its officials and, of course, all the Estonian food industry companies who have participated in this fair throughout the ages and have realised that this is extremely important for our export! Thank you very much for listening to who you are in this Chamber. I think in the next few times, you could all go to this fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-20_U49	Thank you very much, Mr Tuiksoo. Please, colleague of the speaker's desk, Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-20_U50	Ladies and gentlemen, Certainly, some of you have sometimes wondered, what it will be about, that there are very many top politicians in Scandinavian countries who are highly respected throughout the world. As a short reminder, I note in this regard that Trygve Lie from Norway was the first UN Secretary General and the Swedish Dag Hammarskjöld very successful UN Secretary General. We all remember pretty well Martti Ahtisaari's extraordinary breakthrough in those tension stations where peace negotiators were needed to prevent the worst. That is exactly what Alexander Stubb was able to do when there was a conflict of arms between Russia and Georgia. We have failed, Latvians and Lithuanians have failed. Probably partly because of the 50-year-old Soviet occupation, but probably not the only reason. Knowing more of the soul life of Finns because of their former work, I can assure you that in conversations between themselves, in narrow circles, they sometimes use quite powerful expressions about their colleagues. I'm sure there are words like "jackass" among them. But Finns have an extraordinary skill that if they go public and debate their political opponents, they will never say anything like that. I have always thought that the Estonian expression 'Man's word, the bull's horn' means, among other things, that the man knows what he is saying, and he does not retreat from his word. This brings us, of course, now quite close to the fact that Minister Juhan Parts used the word 'jackass' for his Lithuanian colleague, rather than just one colleague, but actually the whole government. Fortunately, this conflict is resolving quite peacefully. It turns out that Mr Parts has already apologized, although I do not understand why not by addressing my Lithuanian colleague or the Lithuanian Head of Government, but by talking to the Lithuanian Ambassador. But it's empty. But people very often label and remember a lot of things. I remember this time, in part, has not yet ended, when the Lithuanians were upset and offended because one former Estonian foreign minister had, in their opinion, used pious lines about the Lithuanian people and also about the Latvians. That foreign minister loved to wear a bow tie. It even went so far that a doll dressed the same way took part in a Lithuanian humor and satire show. So you have to be extraordinarily careful with words like this. After all, cooperation between the Baltic States is not ideal. We have a few big goals on which our opinions are very close. But as soon as we get a little more specific, it is either a security issue or an energy issue, we will see how many differences we actually have. A pretty good example is Rail Baltic. Such words could be used as little as possible by politicians, better than not at all. Let us hope that the Lithuanians will not name Estonians as jerks, and hope that they will not speak of Estonians as Thousand-Juhans in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-20_U51	Thank you very much, Mr Enn Frontland. There's no more calls. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. Closure of the sitting at 15.57 p.m.
