ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U1	Dear fellow Members, Honourable Riigikogu! Good Prime Minister! We will begin the Monday session of the 10th working week of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U2	Following the resignation of the members of the Riigikogu Katrin German and Kairit Pihlak, on 28 March Maimu Berg and Tatjana Jaanson became members of the Riigikogu. Now we have the opportunity and great honour to hear the oaths of office of the new members of the Riigikogu. I would first ask the Riigikogu's speech chair, Maimu Berg, to take an oath of office.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U3	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu and Honourable Riigikogu! By taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu as part of the XII Riigikogu, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U4	Now I ask Tatjana Jaanson to take the oath of office in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U5	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! By taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu as part of the XII Riigikogu, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U6	There are no more new members of the Riigikogu among us today.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U7	We can go to agriculture minister Ivari Padar's oath. By Decision No 399 of 7 April this year, the President of the Republic has appointed Ivari Padar as Minister for Agriculture. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U8	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! In taking on the duties of a member of the Government of the Republic, I am aware that in this capacity I am responsible for the Republic of Estonia and my conscience. I solemnly swear to remain faithful to the constitutional order of the Republic of Estonia and to devote my strength to securing the well-being and future of the Estonian people.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U9	Good fellows! Now everyone who wishes to come to the Riigikogu Chair and hand over drafts and questions. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U10	Mr. Vice-Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of handing over, on behalf of the Central Party Group, the draft law amending the Social Welfare Act on child support. In 2005, the amendment to the Social Welfare Act entered into force, according to which child benefit was taken into account as part of the family's income. The amendment of the Social Welfare Act in this way was justified by the argument that granting additional money could lead to additional risks of subsistence and reduce people's motivation to find a job, or earn income. In essence, however, we have now created a situation where one support swallows another. When we hand over this draft, we very much hope that it will also be discussed. Last time we voted on it in this Chamber, the Social Democrats were in favour of it. The coalition has promised to increase child benefits, and I hope that this money will not count on the income of the family, and we will act legally, which means that money for children will be spent on children, not on utilities, for example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U11	I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Government of the Republic, Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U12	Mr. Vice-Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching today a draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity. In the Riigikogu, the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U13	Good fellows! On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two drafts; according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board decides on their further processing. Let's move on to the messages, there's a lot of them. First, the Board of the Riigikogu has registered members of the Riigikogu Jaak Aaviksoo, Siim Valmar Kiisler, Juhan Parts, Urmas Reinsalu, Helir-Valdor Seedri and Ken-Marti Vaheri Isamaa and Res Publica as members of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party of the Riigikogu, and members of the Riigikogu Etti Kagarov, Barbi-Jenny Pilvre-Storgård and Tiit Tammsaare Social Democratic Party. The board knows no protests from these people, they agree. Lots of strength for them! Secondly, the Management Board of the Riigikogu has registered the Chairman of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union Urmas Reinsalu and the Vice-Chairs of the Group Kaia Iva and Juhan Parts, the Chairman of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party Kristen Michal, member of the Riigikogu, and the Vice-Chairs of the Group Remo Holsmer and Jaanus Tamkivi, members of the Riigikogu. Thirdly, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu has divided the seats of the permanent committees of the Riigikogu, with the exception of the Committee on European Union Affairs, between the political groups as follows: two seats for the Group of the Estonian Central Party in each committee, four seats for the Group of the Estonian Reform Party in the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, three seats for the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union in the Committee on Economic Affairs and three seats in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, two seats for the Group of the Social Democratic Party in the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on National Defence, one place for the other committees. Fourthly, the Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the number of permanent members of the Riigikogu committees as follows: there are nine members in the Committee on the Environment, the Committee on Culture and the Committee on Rural Affairs, 13 members in the Committee on Economic Affairs, 10 members in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, 11 members in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the National Defence Committee, the Social Committee and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, there are nine members in the Committee on Legal Affairs, ten members in the Committee on Legal Affairs. Fifthly, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu has confirmed the following changes in the membership of the committees: Jaak Aaviksoo taking up the seat of a member of the Constitutional Commission; Andrus Ansip taking up the seat of a member of the Foreign Affairs Commission; Ene Ergma taking up the seat of a member of the National Defence Commission; Etti Kagarov taking up the seat of a member of the Social Affairs Committee; Siim Valmar Kiisler taking up the seat of a member of the Economic Commission; Kalev Kotkas leaving the Committee on Rural Affairs and taking up the seat of a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; Juhan Parts taking up the seat of a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs; Barbi-Jenny Pilvre-Storgård taking up the seat of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on European Union Affairs; Urmas Reinsalu taking up the seat of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; Kaarel Rüüütli as a member of the Committee on the Environment Committee on Deniss Borodichi's leaving; Heir being a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and member of the Committee on Social Affairs and Member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Committee on Foreign Affairs; Good colleagues, we're now conducting a presence check. 87 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 14. Dear colleagues, let's get back to the weekly agenda. But first let me point out that, on the proposal of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, a reply to enquiries 387, 388 and 389 has been added to the project today. With this addition, I shall put the agenda to the vote. I shall vote on the agenda for the tenth working week of the VII plenary session of the Riigikogu, together with the three additions that I have mentioned. Please take a stand and vote. 81 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The tenth working week has got its own agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U14	Let's go to today's questions. The first is the members of the Riigikogu, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Eldar Efendijev, Tarmo Tamme, Valeri Korb and Yana Toomis. a Enquiry submitted on 17 February concerning the Narva Labour Dispute Committee (No 387). The Minister of Social Affairs, Helmen Kütt, will answer that. I ask Mikhail Stalnukhin, the representative of the speakers of the chair, to introduce the inquiry!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U15	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Madam Minister! Colleagues! The problem I'm talking about right now is quite common in many cities. In Narva's case, it might be recalled that ten years ago, the government suddenly announced that it would stop financing the archive work in Narva. We had to choose whether to pay for this job or whether all the townspeople, over 60,000 people, would be going to Rakvere if necessary to get some proof. However, it was easy to find a solution to this problem. I couldn't help it. The city took over the whole thing. But the problem I'm talking about right now is a little harder. Everyone whose names are currently listed by the President has signed an inquiry aimed at the Minister for Social Affairs and, unfortunately, concerns the process that has already been completed. At the time of the inquiry, the Labour Dispute Committee was still in place in Narva. We thought it was quite important to keep the peace of work and, if necessary, to put it under our shoulders. But it turned out that this policy is not right in the eyes of the current government. We received a letter from the Director General of the Labour Inspectorate, Mrs. Maret Maripuu. This was with the following content: 'We have reviewed the workload of labour dispute committees and found that the workload of several committees has significantly decreased compared to previous years. One of these is the Labour Dispute Commission in Narva. 'Jne. At the end, the sentence was that the Commission would therefore be wound up. On this basis, we wanted to ask the Minister which documents state that the workload of all labour dispute committees must be equal and where the criteria for the reasonableness of these committees have been defined. That is what the former Minister said. The second question: 'What is the workload of different labour dispute committees in Estonia and how has this changed in recent years? The third question: " If the Narva Labour Dispute Committee is dissolved, where will the labour disputes from Narva be examined? If this relates to trips to another municipality, what will be the reimbursement of the travel expenses of the parties to the dispute? ' Three questions. We ask the Minister to answer them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U16	Thank you! I now ask the Riigikogu to answer the question of the speech chair, Minister of Social Affairs Helmen Küti!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U17	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to thank you for your questioning on 17 February. It was the Minister of Social Affairs for Mr. Rõivas, but I am trying to answer these questions. At the beginning, I will say that it is very appropriate to raise the subject, so I will try to answer the question. The first question: 'Which technical documents state that the workload of all labour dispute committees must be equal? Where are the criteria for the reasonableness of these committees defined? ' Labour dispute committees shall not be required to carry out an equal workload. At the same time, pursuant to the Labour Dispute Committee's Statute and the Labour Inspectorate's Statute, the main tasks of the Labour Inspectorate are to ensure the settlement of labour disputes. Organisation of the tasks of the Labour Inspectorate is the right and duty of the Director-General of the Labour Inspectorate. The closure of the Narva Labour Dispute Committee was proposed to the Minister of Social Affairs by the Director General of the Labour Inspectorate in accordance with §16 (1), (2) and (5) of the Labour Inspectorate's Statute, according to which the Director General is responsible for the precise and rational implementation of the legislation governing the activities of the Labour Inspectorate and submits proposals to the Minister of Social Affairs to establish the structure and composition of the staff of the Labour Inspectorate and to organise the field of activity of the Labour Inspectorate. With a view to the rational use of the labour inspectorate's resource, it cannot be considered reasonable that in 2013, the labour burden of the labour dispute committee in Narva represented only 27% of the number of disputes resolved by the dispute committee with the highest workload: the Narva Labour Dispute Committee of the Eastern Inspectorate solved 128 labour disputes, while the Labour Dispute Commission of the Northern Inspectorate I solved 474 labour disputes. The Labour Inspectorate and the Ministry of Social Affairs have considered it reasonable to use the available resources as efficiently as possible and to create a new labour dispute committee in Tallinn, as the number of labour disputes in the capital is constantly increasing. The second question: 'What is the workload of different labour dispute committees in Estonia and how has this changed in recent years? ' The labour dispute committee in Narva solved labour disputes only in Narva. Outgoing sessions, which take longer than usual, were not carried out by the Narva Commission. The number of cases resolved by the Narva Labour Dispute Committee has decreased in recent years: 269 labour disputes were resolved in 2011, 187 in 2012 and only 128 in 2013. In comparison, Jõhvi's Labour Dispute Committee, which solved 253 labour disputes in 2011, 188 in 2012 and 184 in 2013. The Jõhvi Commission also carries out field visits. If the heirs want statistics on all cases resolved by labour dispute committees in 2011, 2012 and 2013, I can send it if the previous minister has not already done so. The third question: 'If the Narva Labour Dispute Committee is wound up, where will the labour disputes from Narva be examined? If this relates to trips to another municipality, what will be the reimbursement of the travel expenses of the parties to the dispute? ' The decision to close the Narva Labour Dispute Commission does not mean that labour disputes are no longer resolved in Narva. In Narva, the labour disputes will be resolved by the Jõhvi Commission, who will travel to Narva for the hearing. The system according to which the Labour Dispute Commission is going to hold meetings in another city has been working successfully for several years in Rakvere, Paide, Raplas, Haapsalu, Kärdla, Jõgeval, Põlva, Viljandi and Valga. Since March, such an arrangement is also in Võru. Nothing changes for Narva's employee and employer, no travel costs for visitors. On paper, applications can still be submitted in Narva, but now to the local inspectorate's office, but documents can also be sent by post to the location of the labour dispute committee or electronically. I repeat, there will be departure sessions in Narva to solve problems on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U18	Thank you, Minister. You have at least one question. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U19	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Until recently we were on one side of the coalition there, the opposition there. Perhaps this is the wrong idea, but I have this feeling that if the situation were the same as a month ago, you would be in solidarity with me, not with those who decided to finish the work of this committee. Do you think you would have thought the closure of the Commission was the right thing to do a month ago?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U20	Actually, we're on the same side. We all represent the Estonian people here and try to work as best as possible. In my home town of Viljandi, the Labour Dispute Commission was also closed and there are field visits. However, I believe that decisions must be assessed on a cost-based basis. If people don't get worse, they're fine. The Commission doesn't have much to go far from Jõhvi to Narva. As far as the claim that we are on one side or the other is concerned, I have said very often, too, from this panel, that it is very important that political decisions are not so much made in this Chamber as social policy decisions. I admit that completing the Commission's work in Narva meant that two people in particular were also unemployed, but these two people were nearly 70 years old and they retired with dignity.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U21	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U22	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I also have a question about the future. It is understandable that trade unions in Narva, on the one hand, and entrepreneurs, or employers, on the other hand, are trying to deal with each other as correctly as possible, and that, indeed, in recent times, labour disputes have not been raised sharply and very much. But if you look to the future, small companies can still have problems. If there are quite a number of problems, can we come back to this question? I'm talking about Narva now, is it possible to restore the Labour Dispute Committee in Narva ever again? Is this a final decision or is it not?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U23	Thank you for your question. There are strong trade unions and good employers in Narva and it is very good that the number of labour disputes has decreased. Consequently, there are little problems and, if so, they will be solved in the workplace. Can we get back to this? This should mean some catastrophic increase in the number of appeals so that Jõhvi can no longer serve people. Should such a situation arise, I believe that things should be renegotiated.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U24	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U25	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Helmen! Maybe I didn't listen very carefully, in which case I'm apologizing in advance, but I didn't understand how this should be practically happening. If I have complaints to my employer, how do I file my complaint? Who am I consulting? Do I have to go to Jõhvi for this? What does a resident of Narva City do?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U26	As I said in answer to the third question, nothing will change for the Narva resident. He or she may apply in writing and may also contact and consult the local Labour Inspectorate department. The absence of a labour dispute committee in the city does not mean that there is no inspection agency. The application can also be submitted electronically, but there will be a solution. The Jõhvi Commission is to resolve the Narva issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U27	Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U28	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, For years there has been talk of the country's greater presence in Ida-Virumaa. I have a question for you: will this decision increase the country's presence in Ida-Virumaa or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U29	Considering that there is a labour dispute committee in Jõhvi and, if necessary, it can also travel to Narva, the presence of the state will certainly not decrease. For two people, such a decision really meant losing a job, but the service as such has not disappeared for people, and I think that this service is certainly of high quality and good.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U30	Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U31	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Let me ask you a little bit more. In the same direction, in the case of family medicine centres, they are closed down and so on. Will this trend persist across Estonia, or is it thought that it will change a little under the current government?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U32	Thank you for your question. As far as the closure of family medicine centres is concerned, this is certainly not the subject of this item. The closure of the GMPs of the Labour Inspectorate shall not be affected. But the fact that there is a lack of footage in family medicine centres and often no doctors are found there is true. However, this can be the subject of a separate inquiry into which the statistics concerned could be reviewed and answered specifically.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U33	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U34	Thank you. Madam Minister! I will continue on this subject, which was taken up by my colleague, Mr Urbo. In recent years, have a labour dispute commission been closed in any other local government? Perhaps we will discuss this issue and decide that we will set up a committee that will work in Tallinn and be present in Tartu and Jõhvi, for example? Financial expenditure will become even smaller.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U35	Thank you for your question. This certainly is not appropriate. When you listened to what I said, you know that there will be a working dispute committee in Tallinn. In the capital, labour disputes are bad in the sense that there are many more people to turn to than these committees can solve. It is true that people are driving across Estonia to different places, but it certainly does not have to take place only from Tallinn. I think that the current situation is well regulated, the sittings are held at a reasonable distance. Neither can cost effectiveness be the only criterion when making decisions. However, the need for one committee in Tallinn shows that things in Tallinn have not been resolved well, that the relations between employers and employers and the strength of trade unions are not the same as in Narva.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U36	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. I would like the Riigikogu's speech chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U37	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I only have two factual corrections. First of all, I apologise to the Prime Minister, and I called the former Minister of Social Affairs Madame as a step forward. Pure human error, I don't think so. Really, it was just a mistake. Second factual correction. Madam Minister, you are deeply mistaken, we are not dealing with the same thing here. The night sessions the Social Democrats held here prove that this hall is full of confrontation. You're the one who stepped in with the reform. What you are about to do is to start by betraying your principles and then take part in the same crime that has been going on here in front of us for 15 years: you are going to cross the opposition with a roller coaster. And we will see that when the budget for next year arrives in the hall. But there has been no such reform coalition partner in history that they would not have betrayed in the end. It also awaits you, and it makes us a little happier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U38	Thank you. However, I do have a request that we stick to the question of questioning. Any other words? No, it's not. I'm closing the negotiations. The first question has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U39	Let's move on to the next question. It is presented by members of the Riigikogu Yana Toom, Lauri Laas, Priit Toobal, Urbo Vaarmann, Eldar Efendiev, Valeri Korb, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Viktor Vassilyev and Peeter Võsa. The inquiry has been submitted on 17 February and bears the number 388, the topic is the control of the Estonian language skills of health professionals. The Social Minister Helmen Kütt answers his inquiry. I ask the Riigikogu's speech chair, Yana Toomi, to introduce the questioning!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U40	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, According to the 2013 Annual Activity Report of the Language Inspectorate, 725 employees' Estonian language skills were checked this year in the field of health and social care. The inspection identified 519 non-linguistic personnel required. The procedure was initiated against 114 health professionals, with 77 being fined and 37 being fined under the urgency procedure for a total amount of EUR 3655. Looking at the Language Inspectorate reports, it can be seen that the language proficiency checks of health professionals have become more and more active. In 2013 alone, about the same number of health professionals as in the previous three years combined were checked. In 2012, 226 were uncontrolled, 387 in 2011 and 126 in 2010. So in one year, the three-year limit and more were fulfilled. In this regard, we had six questions for Taavi Clothes. I will end now with an impertinent prayer that if Mrs Helmen Kütt started reading the questions, she would begin with an answer to the question why this question is not answered by Mr Urmas Kruuse, but by Mrs Helmen Küttt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U41	Thank you. I ask the Minister of Social Affairs Helmen Küti of the Riigikogu to answer the question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U42	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will then start with a question that is not written on the paper, perhaps why I will answer, not Mr Urmas Kruuse. The answer is simple: the question is addressed to the Minister for Social Affairs and I am today in the role of Minister for Social Affairs. And now the other answers. Shall I read the questions and then answer them? This may be the best way for those who have not signed an inquiry to find out what the questions are. The first question: 'Does the Language Inspectorate coordinate controllers with the Ministry of Social Affairs and do they also have a representative of the Ministry? 'The Language Inspectorate is a government agency in the administration of the Ministry of Education and Research, which supervises the compliance with the Language Act and other laws governing language skills and language use. The institution coordinates its own activities and the Ministry of Social Affairs does not participate in its decisions. Question 2: 'How do you, as a minister, assess the Estonian language skills of Estonian health workers? Has there been an increase in the number of complaints concerning insufficient language skills lately? What is involved in increasing language control in the area of health care? ' The knowledge of the Estonian language of health professionals who have studied in Estonia must be at least satisfactory, as studies take place in Estonian. For example, Tallinn Health Care College offers additional education in the state language of students in both Kohtla-Järve and Tallinn. The need for further training in the national language will be identified in the evaluation process before the beginning of the study. Insufficient knowledge of the Estonian language can be a problem for health professionals who have completed their education decades ago and for those who have not completed their education in Estonia. To answer the question of whether there has been an increase in the number of complaints concerning insufficient language skills lately, I will provide you with the following information from the Language Inspectorate. According to the Language Inspectorate, a total of 87 requests for information and 212 complaints were received by post and through the website in 2013. In 2012, 74 requests for information and 243 complaints were received by post and through the website. It can therefore be said that the number of complaints relating to language skills has not increased over two years. The majority of complaints concerned the language skills of service and sales workers and members of the management and employees of housing associations, as well as the foreign language languages of public information and advertising. Complaints concerning health professionals were 10 in 2011, 14 in 2012 and 12 in 2013. To assess the frequency of language checks in the field of health care, we requested additional information from the Language Inspectorate. Among other things, we asked for clarification of the principles governing the organisation of language checks, including that which has led to closer language checks in the field of health. We received the following answer. Each year, the Language Inspectorate draws up a monitoring plan to check the proficiency of the Estonian language of the employees, setting out the priority areas for a given year. In 2013, they were the education sector in which the 1694 Act was drawn up and the health sector, which led to a real increase in the number of staff checked. In the field of health and social care, 725 people were tested last year, while in 2012 226 employees were tested for language skills. The report shows that a large number of acts have been drawn up at the Ida-Viru Central Hospital, where language proficiency checks were started in 2012, when only 62 employees could be checked. Between 2008 and 2011, however, no control reports were drawn up in that institution. Thus, increasing language control in the field of health is linked to planning the internal organisation and supervision of the Language Inspectorate. Question 3: 'How do you, as a minister, assess the impact of such checks on the area you manage? ' I think it's necessary to check the language requirements. Regular checks will certainly also motivate the improvement of language skills and language learning. Question 4: 'In Estonia, our northern neighbours are known to be active in recruiting health professionals to work in Finland, Norway, etc. And not only future doctors and nurses, but also those already in operation. In fact, the first step in recruiting is to provide language courses for health professionals, which teach, for example,'medical Finnish'. What measures have been developed in the Ministry of Social Affairs to ensure professional language training for doctors working in Estonia? ' Employers will assess the language skills of health care workers in Estonia and, if necessary, they will also organise language training. The language training of health professionals has also been supported by the state. Integration and Migration Foundation Our People, or MISA, supported 16 Ida-Viru Central Hospital doctors from third countries and 20 other medical personnel whose language skills were not at the required level of work, allowing them to study Estonian language courses free of charge, where our society was also introduced. The project is funded from the state budget through the European Fund for the Integration of third-country nationals and the Ministry of Culture, in particular in the framework of Estonia's 2008-2013 integration plan. The Ministry of Social Affairs does not have the competence to deal with language issues. Question 5: "Does the Ministry of Social Affairs support medical workers who have received instructions from the Language Inspectorate? What courses will be conducted, how many people have completed such education in the last four years (please answer by year)? Please also provide information on the cost of the courses. ' Since the Ministry of Social Affairs has no competence to deal with language issues, I have no other answer to this question than simply that the language training of health professionals has been organised by the employer when necessary, using integration programmes. But the short answer is the Ministry of Social Affairs doesn't do it. Question 6: "How is the specific problem of Ida-Viru County to be solved, given the lack of an Estonian-language environment? Have you considered the possibility of lowering the language requirements of medical doctors working in Ida-Virumaa for a certain period, provided that the health care institution ensures the service in Estonian, for example by involving a nurse in Estonian or a qualified interpreter? ' The Ministry of Social Affairs has not considered lowering language requirements for health workers working in Ida-Virumaa. The Estonian official language is Estonian, which means that it must be possible to receive high-quality medical care in this language. According to our data, young people speaking in Russian are given great attention to teaching the Estonian language. We trust the education system and health institutions, and we believe that hospitals also pay adequate attention to language learning. We fully support the activities of the Language Inspectorate and believe that regular checks and attention-raising will improve the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U43	Thank you. Minister, there are also questions for you. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U44	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! I went to England last year and met a young woman from Estonia in Brighton, a nurse who had worked in Estonia for several years and then went to England to look for a job. At the time, he was an intern at a hospital in Brighton. A month later, I found out he was hired. For me, the strangest thing about it was that I saw him communicating in English, and he couldn't even do it. But he was very industrious, diligent, and appreciated. In England, the official language is English, not Russian or Estonian, but he was officially recruited and remains there to work. If England is allowed to do this, then maybe we can allow our own people to do the same?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U45	Thank you for your question. In Finland, for example, things are the other way around. There are language requirements in Finland and it is not possible to work alone as a family doctor or as a nurse until the exam has been passed. I am of the opinion that the requirement to know the Estonian language and the treatment of patients is still linked simply by the fact that the language of the country must be able to receive the assistance appropriate to the diagnosis and that the person who provides the assistance must also explain to the patient what assistance is given. In my opinion, additional language courses will also help to solve the problem. I know that the city of Narva has actually contributed a great deal to organising language courses. The question is that maybe the funds and projects should be larger in order to conduct language courses.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U46	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U47	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I also have an example of life. I've been in contact with an older lady who works as a gynecologist at an Ida-Virumaa hospital. He's been working, I don't know, for 50 years, and he's a highly valued specialist. He's been in classes at least 11 times. He complained to me that he knew what the Amazon rain forest was like in Estonian, but he doesn't even know how it is. The courses you referred to, organised by MISA and other good people, are not specific, medical. I mean, teachers, nurses, troll leaders are being brought together, anyone who is taught an average language that people don't need for work. Shouldn't the Ministry of Social Affairs be more forceful to interfere in teaching the professional language that a person really needs when filling out papers, documents related to this insane bureaucratism in healthcare? He doesn't really need that word in the rainforest.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U48	Thank you. That's a good point. If Finns are currently recruiting medics from higher education in Tallinn and Tartu, they will also teach them specific medical terminology. I've been to the hospital in Narva, and I can tell you that there are very good people who are doing their job with their hearts. I am ready to communicate with the Language Inspectorate and raise this issue to organise specific courses. I can't promise you that these will happen now, but I'm sure I'll pass on that request. Perhaps it is also possible to organise specific medical language courses in some projects.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U49	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U50	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I'll come back to Ida-Virumaa and talk about people. Some people have been seeing their doctor for decades, and suddenly this doctor no longer meets today's requirements. Of course, doctors come from Tartu and Tallinn, but the order is four months, five months, six months, maybe more. Perhaps you could really look at this question through the eyes of people who need help, look at the area, what should be done, and how should you not suffer from ordinary people who need medical care? You may have a little time, but we still need to pay attention to this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U51	Thank you. I will definitely speak to the Language Inspectorate, just as I replied to Yana Toom who asked me earlier. I think the order has to be shorter, and if this order has to do with the language problem, the worse. So I will certainly deal with this issue and will answer the respondents in writing after I have been in contact with the Language Inspectorate.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U52	Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U53	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I ask the opposite: in Tartu and Tallinn there is often a problem that doctors do not speak Russian again. What solution do you see here? Should we not, however, find a common language with the patient so that the person can fully understand what is wrong with him and how he should proceed?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U54	Thank you. If I wanted to answer by law now, I could say that Estonian is the official language in Estonia. However, I can tell from personal experience that if a person turns to a doctor in another language and the doctor speaks that language, he will certainly speak to the patient in his own language, Russian or other language. I've seen myself at East Tallinn Central Hospital, how one of the British people was treated. No one spoke to him in Estonian, but even an interpreter, who by chance was another medic, was invited and spoken in English. The official language is, however, Estonian throughout Estonia, but doctors who speak Russian will certainly communicate in Russian if necessary, if their patient does not really understand the national language.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U55	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U56	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary! The world wasn't born yesterday, he was born a long time ago with all his problems. In the 1980s, I have worked for 14 years as the secretary of the internal medical accreditation committee. All doctors in this field went to the committee, including those in Ida-Virumaa. The language problem has always been there. All of these fine doctors were then and have also repeatedly completed courses. But in Narva, for example, the Estonian population is 3%, 97% speaks Russian. The doctors have completed the courses, but in a month, the language will be forgotten. How can patients also start speaking to their doctors and sisters in Estonian? Because, as you said, according to the law, our official language is Estonian.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U57	Thank you. One answer is certainly that schools switch to Estonian-language education, which means that more and more patients speak Estonian. That's one thing. Secondly, I hope that Narva will also live more with the Estonian-speaking people. It's a great, beautiful city. Why not go live there? How, though, can those who now speak Russian with their doctor start speaking Estonian? If they can do it by speaking Russian, then there's no problem. Rather, the problem is the opposite, i.e. when the patient speaks Estonian and the doctor does not understand him.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U58	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U59	Thank you. Madam Minister! You said we supported the activities of the Language Inspectorate. That's right. But perhaps the state should also give more support to hospitals because, essentially, all these courses are organised from the hospital budget? Maybe the people who come to work for us would have a better level. You know you're currently a little short of a 165-170 doctor. If people come from abroad to work for us and work well, I say this from my experience, then perhaps it would be better if the state supported their preparation financially more than so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U60	Thank you. I think it would be necessary to organise language courses, and as Mr Toom said here, actually specific language courses. It does not matter whether the state allocates money to the hospital, because hospitals are still financed by the health insurance fund, or whether it organises these courses itself. What matters is that people learn the language.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U61	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. I would like the Riigikogu's speech chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U62	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, I must tell you that I have the greatest sympathy for you. Maybe it's because you're the only one who's been sitting here with us late in the night on Mondays to hear what we're actually talking about. I want to tell you some stories that have been told a long time ago. In the 1990s, I taught almost every dentist in the city of Narva. They had regular checks and exams. That is why people began to ask in our courses that when a patient comes to a dentist, all the vocabulary needed there is: " Open your mouth! Spit! Thank you. You can shut up. You'll come next time. ' And so it is. If you've been to a dentist, you know that's more or less how this language and vocabulary look, plus or minus 20%. Why, then, do we need to learn this, this, and this? What do you say to those who ask? Exactly what you said here. You have been asked to do so. But I'd like to know where the logic is. I've been talking to the head doctor at a pretty big hospital, who's always having this problem, that there's once a batch of doctors attending language courses, once a second, once a third, once they have trips, there's practice somewhere. He's asking me if it wouldn't be cheaper for the country, and it would be a lot better, talking about the goal we're trying to achieve if there was an interpreter in the hospital. An interpreter who could translate, if necessary, even in Ida-Viru County, where 97% of the residents speak Russian, as already mentioned here. It just hasn't been dealt with. The third story I'm gonna end up with. When I asked you a question, I was talking about a young woman who has now remained at work in England. I met him and got to talk because he lived in the family of one of my relatives, they had studied together, both nurses. You see, 20 people studied in their group, and that young woman was the last one to work in Estonia. When he went to England, there was no one left of this group. I have not asked such a question, I say frankly, I do not want to lie, but if you ask how much this decision, the decision in favour of another country, was due to constant language checks, language courses that provide something, but the baggage you receive disappears momentarily because there is no language practice, I think it is very likely that this is about 50%. We understand you're in a very bad crowd right now, but as a new minister and a bright person, maybe you'll see if that makes sense. Is this sacred cow still as sacred as we think it is? We hope that some of the problems will, however, be resolved in the near future. I will take this opportunity to wish you good luck at your work, Madam Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U63	Thank you. I would like to ask the Riigikogu for a speech chair, Yana Toomi!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U64	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I just have a few remarks. The first point is that I am extremely sorry that the remote was sent here to meet us, Mrs Helmen Küttt. Yes, an inquiry had been submitted to the Minister for Social Affairs, but since we now have two ministers in this area, it would have been fair if Mr Urmas Kruuse, who is now responsible for health care, had answered that question. Some comments also regarding Mrs Helmen Hunt's answers. I understand very well that this is not a personal position, that it is still what is being prepared and given to the Minister, etc. That makes perfect sense. The question was how, as a minister, you will assess the impact of such controls on the area you manage. In fact, this concerns any area in Estonia. The answer was that language control was necessary and motivated. It's not true, it doesn't motivate anyone. In a fragile situation where our health care is now in place, it would be very reasonable to take a human view of people, apologize for tautology, and give them the opportunity to work peacefully. For me, these figures were really weird. I learned that there were 10 complaints in the field of health in 2011, 14 in 2012 and 12 in 2013, a total of 36 in three years. So, for what reason does Mr. Tomusk put all his inspectors on 725 employees to start checking? What practical need was there for this when there are not so many complaints? It's just that the person got too carried away. What we're talking about is that they're subject to the Ministry of Education, and we don't know what they're doing, isn't right. I think that every cabinet member should look at their field and somehow maintain contact with the Language Inspectorate. They should coordinate action, not so that they come from some kind of internal order and do what they want. Our family doctors and our sisters are running away, we know it very well, it's all figures. Add to them a source of tension that we ourselves cannot overcome, this is not normal. It was a question of whether the Ministry of Social Affairs had considered some kind of linguistic discount for a certain period. The answer was that I hadn't considered it. It's not right again! At one time, even the director of our police prefecture felt that language requirements for police officers in Narva should be lowered. There are no people, come on, let's be reasonable! One more thing I want to talk about. If you are currently opening the Postimees, you will see an excellent article about how a good family doctor told his patient who could not explain to him in Estonian what hurts him, that you know what, speak Russian in Russia, move to Russia and speak Russian there. What do I mean by that? Ideally, of course, all our doctors and nurses should be able to speak two languages, but here it could be the same as we are doing at a school where there is a teacher and an assistant, i.e. if there are not enough qualified people in a health care facility, then give the opportunity to translate, it would be perfectly normal and logical. And the last thing I want to say. Dear Social Democrats, who are you in this Chamber: the Language Inspectorate is in the hands of your minister! So next time before the election, you shouldn't lay hands again and ask why these Russians are still voting for someone. Think seriously about it, because it's the only hope the Russians have to do with you right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U65	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U66	We will go to the third question that Riigikogu members Viktor Vassilyev, Valeri Korb, Lauri Laas, Tarmo Tamm, Ester Tuiksoo and Peeter Võsa have submitted on 18 February 2014. Inquiry is about social benefits for people with old-age disabilities and is numbered 389. The Social Minister Helmen Kütt answers his inquiry. I ask Viktor Vassilyev, who is the representative of the heirs, to introduce the questioning of the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U67	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. We have been asked in what we, members of the Central Party Group, want to know about the social benefits for old-age people. The degree of disability is determined by the need for additional assistance, guidance or supervision for people of old age pensionable age. The purpose of the grants is to ensure that they can buy the services they need. Grants are calculated on the basis of the social benefit rate for persons with disabilities, which is €25.57 this year. On this basis, the allowance is EUR 12.79 per month for a person with an average disability, EUR 26.85 for a person with a severe disability and EUR 40.91 per month for a person with a deep disability. These subsidies have not increased for a long time. At the same time, prices have risen by 51.3% over the last ten years. In this regard, we are asking a number of questions. One of the aims of Estonian old-age policy is to ensure a standard of living guaranteeing self-esteem to older people and an equal position in society with other age groups. Will such subsidies guarantee them a level playing field in society, do they fulfil this objective? We have a question of when it is planned to increase social benefits for people of old age or whether there is an alternative way to improve the status of people of old age with disabilities. We ask what rehabilitation services a person can afford for 12 euros, 26 euros and 40 euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U68	Thank you. Please answer the question of the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister of Social Affairs Helmen Küti!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U69	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I really want to thank you for asking me this question. We are also together with Viktor Vassilyev in the Committee on Older People's Policy, who has developed the principles of how an elderly person can age with dignity. And even before I start reading the questions and without answering them, I say that these social benefits have indeed also fallen right behind the times, as children's benefits stood still for ten years. Now you will answer the questions you have asked. I'm not going to read the questions again because you already did. Estonian old-age policy covers different areas: family and environment, health and care, working and coping, education, culture, sport, non-profit organisations and self-help, regional and international cooperation. Thus, in order to achieve the objective of ageing policy, a self-respecting standard of living for older people and an equal position with other age groups must also be ensured by applying different methods. The needs of older people depend on many factors, such as family existence, age, physical and mental health, life - style, which is why these needs cannot be standardised. Social benefits for disabled people of old-age age are only part of the measures that help to achieve the above-mentioned policy objectives. The disability allowance paid under the Social Benefits Act for disabled persons is intended to cover part of the additional costs of the disability, medical treatment, aids and so on. It is not intended to cover daily living expenses, such as housing. In addition to financial support, older people can also receive various services if necessary: health care services, rehabilitation services as well as services provided by local authorities. In Tallinn and many other cities, these services are very well organised and the municipality also pays additional support from its budget to compensate for the own contribution of the aid instruments, because, as is well known, the elderly receive a discount of 15% of the cost of the aid, or 35% or 25% in the case of some aid instruments. Without a doubt, elderly people with disabilities find it more difficult to cope with everyday life than older people without disabilities. However, disability benefits cannot be considered as separate from the economic opportunities of the country and the general level of living of the people, which limits both the level of disability benefits and the size of many other benefits and pensions. Let us take the child benefit already mentioned, which has been unchanged for 10 years. Ten years ago, the child benefit was 19.18 euros and the average pension was 143 euros, now the child benefit is the same, but the average pension is 353 euros. Under the Social Welfare Act, all persons with disabilities, including people of old age, are entitled to rehabilitation services. The service shall be provided according to the activities set out in the rehabilitation plan and shall be financed from the budget. In other words, the disability benefit that a person receives every month to compensate for the purchase of medicines, aids or care equipment does not include the cost of rehabilitation services. If you have a disability, you can apply for an additional service under the rehabilitation plan and then receive rehabilitation services at least once a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U70	Minister, there is at least one question for you. Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U71	Thank you, Mr President. Good madam minister! The previous Minister for Social Affairs, who has now fled as Prime Minister, I think once at the Social Affairs Committee meeting, said that the old person doesn't need much, he doesn't have great needs, he sits at home, he doesn't go anywhere. Of course, he doesn't go to the club, and he doesn't buy expensive things for himself. But then again, the older and sicker the higher the cost he's got. He can't walk anywhere, he has to order some kind of transport, he has to hire some helper, he has to hire a worker who's gonna set up a cage for him, and he's gonna have to pay cash for all of this. He still has expenses. How can you afford something a month with this EUR 12? What can you afford for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U72	Thank you for your question. I probably wasn't at the Social Affairs Committee meeting where Taavi Kõivas said so, but I certainly don't think so. As the disease develops, the costs of an elderly person also increase. Medication, care equipment, diapers, all this takes a large part of the income. Thus, disability support is indeed low. If a person suffers from severe or severe disability, he or she can also arrange a guardian through the local government. The caretaker will have it drilled so you don't have to pay cash, but it's a small thing. Generally, carers help him to cope at home. In the municipalities, for example, in my home town of Viljandi and certainly also in Tallinn, there are care workers, i.e. open-care workers, who make sure that older people can cope better. Exactly the same is for disabled transport, its price is very favourable, and I know that the low-insured people are actually covered by the municipality in Tallinn and Viljandi. Due to the needs of the elderly, municipalities have launched a lot of activities, from the creation of day centres to the provision of transport services. I think the worst thing is if an elderly person stays at home because then his illness gets worse. As your medic, I'm sure you know that a person left home alone is more melancholy and that all the diseases that still come along are often caused by mood disorders. I think that municipalities, smart municipalities, offer these services because older people are valuable, must be valued and respected.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U73	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U74	Thank you. Madam Minister! I understand it is difficult for you to answer our questions because you have just come to this post. But I would like to ask what you can promise today, what could happen next year, and what changes await in the sphere that we asked you about today.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U75	Thank you for your question. I guess I can still afford the 11 months until the next election. Then the people will give a mandate, and time will tell who will be in the government or coalition. But I can tell you that there will definitely be a pension increase of at least 5%. There will certainly be an increase in the tax-free minimum, with services coming from European Union funds for informal carers, as well as preferential transport services. I think that, if the budget allows, all municipalities are actually interested in having elderly people living well in their city or rural municipality. Yesterday I visited Rannu's pensioners, for example. There the mayor has been having a nice spring party for ten years, where everyone in the remote area is being transported by bus. So I cannot say that this is now only an 11-month topic, I think that even after 11 months, municipalities and the state will respect their people and support their dignified ageing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U76	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U77	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. You rightly said that smart municipalities care for their own people and also care for those who have already contributed to their work and need more support and help from both the state and local authorities. You are also from a local government background, you have been managing and carrying social work in the city and county for a long time before coming to the Riigikogu. Are you also one of the ministers in the government who could stand up for this 'temporary' government today, or for the future government with social democrats, to give back to local governments the financial resources that the country took away in the years of the cut? There would then be more wise municipalities who could take care of their own people, including older ones. Would it be fair for the state and the government to give the local authorities back the funds he took away from them?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U78	Thank you. First of all, it's a temporary government. I do not know that any government in Estonia would have been permanent and permanent. They're all temporary in the sense of changing or continuing at least every four years. But when it comes to how local authorities can decide more, they really need money. I think that there are smart municipalities in Estonia, both small towns and rural municipalities. I didn't mean by smart governments to bring someone out, sometimes it's just too little financial resources to offer all the services. Take home care, for example. If a person lives in a small forest farm, it is very difficult to organise open care, but additional financial resources will undoubtedly make it possible to do so better. But there is also a bit of a question of priorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U79	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Viktor Vassilyev, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U80	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Minister said very nicely that we have had all the governments on a temporary basis. All the things that happen to us are temporary. Man here on this earth is also temporary, and everything will eventually disappear into eternity. Youth isn't forever either. Of course, it can be said that we owe the elderly generation a debt because they have created some value here. In words, we're gonna make it from the bleacher like we're gonna bend over to them. Still, you might think about the future, thinking that youth really isn't eternal. The Middle Ages are not eternal either, and once God gives us years of life, each of us will be among the generation who will have to live with the pension that society pays him. Not everyone is able to scrape together either a bank or their farmyard or some other pillar on which to rely. And then, yes, the time will come when you will have to live from your pension, live with your disability, with your disability allowance, and buy potatoes and maybe eat potato peel. You know, I'll tell you an old story. An old story about a family that lived together for three generations. There were kids running around outside, they were dad and mom and they were grandpa. Grandpa was pretty old and his hands were shaking. When he sat at the table with the others, he driped his soup on the table and once dropped his clay bowl, which fell to pieces. Grandpa's son made him a wooden bowl, and Grandpa was put behind the oven with his soup bowl. The next day, the same family father will see that his little son sits in the courtyard and grubs something with a knife from a piece of wood. 'What are you doing there? " Dad asked the boy. And the kid said, "But, Daddy, I'm gonna make you a wooden bowl. Once you're old and your hands are shaking, you're gonna go behind the oven with that bowl. " People, this is a wise story, and it is worth remembering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U81	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U82	Dear colleagues, if anyone wishes, I would like to ask you to register for a free microphone speech after the hammer hit! Lembit Kaljuvee, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U83	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't come here for a remote control, as Valeri Korb asked, whether you were going to apply on the European Parliament's list. Nor is it because, as another colleague said, Lemps, go and talk about why you alone have become a partyless, that all Democrats have gone and committed themselves to other parties, now to power. I was brought here by the remote's concern about our mineral resources and how the Riigikogu and our government view them. I was at a geology conference with two colleagues at TUT on Friday, at the April conference. This conference has been held by geologists every year. This time there were 22 researchers, from highly dignified academics to master's students. From the mouth and soul of all of them there was pain and concern for the future of our resources. We know that Estonia is poor in terms of mineral resources if we compare it with what is in Russia or Norway. But if we so-called intensively and correctly explore and use our mineral resources, he will undoubtedly be the source and guarantor of the wealth of our people. I will bring you a few pieces of what remained of these 22 speeches, along with small comments containing my message to the Riigikogu and to the public in our country. In principle, geologists, scientists think that the situation by 2014 is such that the state has neglected matters for the purpose of rational, knowledge-based management of our underground resources. More than that, it is said that the state is dying out of geology. This wording was used by Ene Kadastik, who is a permanent representative of Estonia to the European Union, a scientist, a geologist. The attitude of Estonia, the attitude of our government, the attitude of the Riigikogu towards mineral resources is that let's not investigate. We do not even have a national mineral strategy that exists in most European countries. Nor do we have a national research organisation that, on a comprehensive, geological basis, investigates our mineral resources. So if we're talking about phosphorus, for example, what do we have on phosphorus right now? We haven't dealt with this in 22 years of independence, actually we know 50% of these stocks, we're saying we know. As far as oil shale is concerned, oil shale reserves have also been poorly investigated because we have not dealt with it in 20 years. However, Eesti Energia, our national organisation, has spent 42 million investigating the oil shale of Utah. We cannot study it here in Estonia because politicians in their stupidity, apologize for their expression, in their greed for voices, make such decisions as has been done in Nabala, as was written into the coalition treaty. This is not a state-manly behaviour and this must not be the attitude of our country. There's a national geology center that's really gonna do a lot of research on these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U84	Thank you very much. Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu to speak to Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U85	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Some years ago, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, Narva City, Jõhvi Municipality, Kohtla-Järve City and Kiviõli City founded a foundation called Ida-Virumaa Industrial Area Development. This has produced a very good result. For example, in the territory of Narva logistics and industrial park, a detailed plan has been made during this period. With the help of EAS, European money has installed very beautiful lighting, a network of roads, electricity capacity delivered, etc. I think the result is excellent. Two huge logistics centers have already been built there. In the final stages, the construction of the Aquaphor plant is planned for 380 employees. The construction of several companies is currently underway, including, for example, a dry paint factory, where in the future very many people will also be able to work. Almost all properties in this territory are already reserved. But a few months ago, there was a big problem unexpectedly. It was a glitch of planners. How could this happen? I don't understand, but it turns out there isn't enough power. In order for new investors to come, as I said, almost all the land is already reserved, a substation with a capacity of 8 megawatts should be built. It is claimed that it requires EUR 680000 to be built. The foundation turned to the city of Narva, asking for EUR 680000 at the beginning, after 340000 were requested, without which it could not do anything. The decision of the City Council of Narva on the allocation of funds was prepared because, in principle, we were willing to take such a decision. But the debate suddenly revealed that the land that has been reserved will be bought out for about EUR 1 million this year, and that is the money that should be aimed at developing the foundation and their territories. It gave the whole situation a completely different taste. This means that, now, in the spring, we will allocate EUR 340000 from our scarce budget, a few months later, the industrial park will sell these land and there will be no mechanism for it to return this money or for it to make up for this EUR 340000 to the city of Narva in any other way. We've taken the opportunity to negotiate with those who work on our networks, i.e. the VKG. Hopefully, there will also be some positive results. At the moment, I am here in the Tribune, but in order to address the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, because, as those who work for this foundation claim, there is one possibility that the necessary money, EUR 340000, will be allocated to the Industrial Park by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. That is why I was tasked in Narva today to present the situation to you here and, at the latest tomorrow, to address in writing to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications with a proposal to lower the shoulders and help Narva's logistics and industrial park so that hundreds and hundreds of more jobs could be created. For my part, if the Ministry of Economic Affairs is able to allocate money, then there could also be a contribution to Narva's funding, some amount to be allocated, even though the Ministry might find it much easier to do so. So I hope the Ministry is ready to cooperate and the city of Narva will be helped with the difficult situation in building a substation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-07_U86	Thank you very much. Good colleagues, no more calls. The free microphone is finished. Thank you! Today's session is closed. I wish you strength in your work! Closure of the sitting at 4.26 p.m.
