ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U1	Dear fellow Members, Honourable Riigikogu! Good morning. We move on freshly and at a speedy pace, we begin the session of the eighth working week of the 8th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. First of all, I ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or enquiries to the Riigikogu Chair. You're very welcome! Doesn't the Government of the Republic want to hand over anything? If you don't want to, we're gonna move on from here and we're gonna do a presence check. 69 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, no 32.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U2	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item on the agenda is the debate on the important national issue 'Implementing the concept of the development of civil society in Estonia'. Let me give you a brief presentation of the procedure for this debate. First of all, Rein Lang, a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, is a presentation, which may last up to 20 minutes. After that, there are questions and answers. Followed by Minister of the Interior Hanno Pevkuri for the same long presentation and questions and answers. Thirdly, we will listen to the presentation of the promoter of volunteering and film producer Artur Talvik, which will also be followed by questions and answers. Each member of the Riigikogu may submit up to two oral questions to all rapporteurs. After the presentations, of course, we will open negotiations, which we look forward to. All members of the Riigikogu may speak. At the end of the discussion, the Riigikogu will not take a decision. Mr Rein Lang, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, please present the speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U3	Good morning. Allow me to congratulate everyone, including you, Mr President, on the 20th birthday of the Reform Party. [[Let's hear it.]] Ladies and gentlemen, On 12 September 2002, 12 years ago, the Riigikogu approved the concept of the development of Estonian civil society with its decision in this very hall. As foreseen in this document, every two years the Riigikogu organises a debate on the implementation of this concept as a matter of national importance, and the time has come today. The work of the Riigikogu is, and must be, substantially regulated and there has already been a debate on this issue at the joint meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on Culture, which took place on 16 September. This event could even be called a conference afterwards, as there were many participants, as well as rapporteurs and speakers. There has been a lot of talk about this in the media, too, and I am certainly not going to recount what was said to you here. It just doesn't make any sense. However, one of the ideas that I have heard in this debate is at the end of my presentation. However, I am now taking advantage of the task given to me by the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and I urge you to think a little bit about the situation of civil society and the social capital directly linked to it in Estonia today. Social capital is defined in many ways, and can be used in political, economic, social and financial terms. Beauty is still in the eye of the viewer. In his book Bowling Alone, American Robert Putnam treats social capital as a set of social networks of collective value. So we can do some concrete things for each other in society. Putnam and his academic disciples consider social capital to be the key to the development and preservation of democracy. But scientist Robert Putnam himself is quite skeptical and finds that in the United States, the influence of television and urbanisation have drastically reduced social capital. In Putnam's view, social capital can be measured with confidence in society. Trust in power is a very important component of this trust. Television and new communication technologies have evolved in Estonia to almost the same level as in the USA. Urbanization is also taking place at full speed. We want it or not, but the tractor and harvester do the work of dozens and hundreds of people. Thus, according to Putnam's theory, social capital in Estonia should shrink and networks between people should crumble. At the same time, despite bold claims that democracy is falling right before our eyes, the trust of Estonians in national institutions, including the government and Parliament, is quite high. It is even very large compared to many Western European countries. In all the studies, some national institutions, for example, report the media, which in my opinion is a sign of danger, in terms of the degree of trust. Here are some concrete examples. The meaning of the Defence League has constantly developed in Estonia. It is long ago not just an armed defence organisation, but a unique network, which has become not just an individual but a family network, especially in recent years. This is something similar to the associations of free will sprayers in the Czech Republic. The social capital created and raised by the Defence Union is impressive. There is obviously no point in repeating that defence is a vital organisation whose deterrence is not much below the national regular army. However, it is also a social network capable of other acts that are not directly related to national defence. Another excellent example is the founding places in Tallinn, which have quickly become a significant force in shaping the living environment. However, settlements continue to develop where people have already been able to solve common problems through closer connections, which are housing associations. It has to be said that despite all the pains and pains, housing associations are getting underfoot in Estonia and are also able to cooperate with each other. The social capital is also strongly increased in Estonia by village societies, especially by choirs, dance groups and musical players. How much social capital we have witnessed this year's Song Festival. I repeat, beauty is primarily in the eyes of the viewer and my Estonia is a highly developed country. But you can always do better. Surely we could trust more in the rule of society, and so in the rule of the state. I am not talking about inclusion here, it is a completely normal process. I would rather talk about the fact that the civil society could also be trusted in the performance of law enforcement functions. The Estonian legal order provides an excellent opportunity to do this by concluding administrative contracts and I personally fail to understand why we in the Riigikogu failed to provide for the possibility of delegating certain tasks to the civil society that the state is unable to perform 24 hours a day. Our information field, which in many ways relies on the media in its many forms of expression, is literally full of different opinions and views. There are no obstacles to freedom of expression in our country or artificial barriers. It's not possible for everyone to watch everything anymore. The times when the vast majority of the population drew their knowledge of what is happening in society from the number of large media that is being read on the fingers of one hand are over forever. Now we have to work harder to make ourselves heard. Some messages and views, however, have the capacity to amplify and become dominant in this information field at some point in time or during a certain period of time. Messengers hope that they will be able to create some kind of emotion, sympathy to their beliefs in the message recipients, and will naturally take advantage of all the opportunities offered by technology. And by technology, I mean not only modern digital information and communication technology, but also psychological technology. Unfortunately, the sad reality is that getting attention in the information field is the best way to contrast. In an information society that is already largely competing to attract people's spotlight, conflict is one of the most effective tools to attract interest. The conflict has also been used as a tool for attracting attention in the development of civil society. Just in case, I repeat that the Constitution of Estonia, which has been adopted in a referendum, has made our country a representative democracy. The highest power is the power of the people who hold it in the elections. We have elections every four years, and even when looking for matchfire, it is difficult to find arguments for the argument that these elections are not actually free and that the Estonian people are unable to realise their ideas and will by running for election. I cannot in any way take seriously the claims that Estonian political parties or local electoral associations are some kind of closed secret organisations. Rather, the political affiliation of public figures has recently shown that everyone can define themselves politically without having the slightest idea of the programme of the chosen party. And political parties whose members believe in the dictatorship of the proletariat and the other part quotes Milton Friedman 'Capitalism and Freedom' in his head, as if we have no shortage. This does not mean that citizens and their associations cannot be involved in matters of society. They may and they should, but no one's power in Estonia comes from God. And that is why I cannot understand the letter to the Riigikogu, which is titled in the commanding way of speaking: what to do and when to do it. My talk about representative democracy is not random. Pseudomodern cultural theory has given rise to a quite widespread understanding in Estonia that social affairs can also be done in individual decisions by applying direct democracy. Modern technology gives us technical opportunities to do so. Yeah, we could do that. But before it is actually implemented, before doing so, a number of laws must be amended, including the Estonian Constitution, and the rule of law provides for certain arrangements. If we start denying the rule of law, we will also start denying democracy itself quite quickly. We will have a kind of dilemma, whether to further develop constitutional representative democracy, towards greater social cohesion, or to carry out radical reform towards direct democracy. I'm afraid you can't get both in pure form at the same time. It is not possible to talk at the same time about the need to involve people and citizens' organisations in government governance and, at the same time, to deny the delegation of state power to civil society organisations. Can't talk grumpyly at the same time about a social state that has been thin-scattered by pests and, at the same time, about transferring social functions to the society. Now allowed a comment on one particular idea that sounded on 16 September. We are talking about the legal status of social enterprises. It must be admitted that, as a form of enterprise, such a thing is not provided for by our company law. Should I be? It's difficult to say, but I think the problem is a little bit wider. The foundation law currently in force is not suitable for regulating certain types of charitable activity, if it involves economic activity. I believe that company law should be renegotiated and, if necessary, renewed in this respect. This proposal is justified and I call on the Ministry of Justice to deal with it as early as next year. As far as I know, the Ministry is currently preparing a work plan for next year, and it would be most gratifying if this point could also be included in this work plan. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U4	Good waitress, thank you very much. Good fellows, it's your turn to ask questions now. There are no questions. Let's move on to the debate. Hanno Pevkuri, Minister of the Interior of the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu, please present!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U5	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good guests from the sanctuaries and elsewhere! Good morning. Congratulations to the Reform Party as a whole! It is worth recalling here that the manifesto written by Mr Kallas on the citizens' state is equally a sign of the development of civil society. And I would also like to pass on the second birthday blessing: the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Estonia was founded today 96 years ago. But now to the subject of discussion. I will start my presentation today with perhaps a provocative question. Should there be a framework document approved at national level, such as the concept of the development of Estonian civil society, in an advanced democracy that Estonia considers itself to be, and which it certainly is? We do not have the concept of breathing, because breathing is such an elementary activity, the normality and necessity of which none of us doubt. Is civil society and its development not equally elementary, normal and necessary? Why should we even talk about this? Is not civil society already what is around us and what we live in? Are the plans for the development of civil society not just transitional documents, the time of which is around, because we have now reached a 'normal' country? I'm sure you'll know my answer. Yes, we have reached a normal and advanced country, but we have not reached, and unfortunately we will never reach, an ideal country where everyone thinks everything is good and which works by itself and by unwritten rules. If we turn our eyes towards developed Western countries, we can find framework documents for the development of civil society in the United Kingdom, France, Ireland, Spain, Sweden and also in many other countries. I would like to remind you of the first paragraph of the concept of the development of Estonian civil society approved by the Riigikogu in December 2002, which states: "The concept of the development of Estonian civil society is a document that defines the complementary roles of public authorities and citizens' initiatives and the principles of cooperation in shaping and implementing public policy and building Estonian civil society. 'I would like to emphasise 'the complementary roles of public authority and citizens' initiative and the principles of interaction' to the part of the sentence. It is precisely this that we can talk about our form for civil society, and that is why the concept of civil society development and related development plans are absolutely necessary. Today, we are talking more about issues such as internal security. In this area, it would be unthinkable if there were no coordinated action by the state, municipalities and NGOs. Assistant police officers, defence allies, women's homeguards, young eagles, home-daughters, the neighbourhood surveillance sector, settlement and village societies, voluntary rescuers, etc. Our common expectation is that they will all be able to act together and for a common goal, but that they will also be strong and supported by the public sector as separate organisations. We can give similar examples in many areas. It is precisely a common understanding of the role and contribution of civil society organisations to society that should be the cornerstone of the concept of civil society development and development plans. Just as discussions on this concept in Riigikogu's plenary have become a good practice, a representative of non-governmental organisations always gets the floor. I am pleased that today, after me as a co-rapporteur for the remote control, an active volunteering promoter who has a great deal of personal experience of launching and maintaining the activities of specific NGOs and also of where it has led. Civil society is defined as a society in which people's fundamental rights and freedoms are protected and where they can cooperate on their own initiative to represent their interests and influence political decisions through civil society organisations and their networks if necessary. Without doubt, Estonian society meets this definition. There are several hundred non-profit organisations, foundations and religious associations in active activity, but there are also many joint ventures involving a significant number of people who have not registered as legal persons. Let the choirs and folk dance circles, for example, be mentioned. Such associations must also be taken into account by the public sector when making its own decisions. The debate on the concept of civil society development has always taken a look back on the last two years, focused on the present and also on the future. Unfortunately, due to limited time frames, all these viewings will be brief, but I would still start further than the last two years if I looked at the past. Two days ago, 25 years passed since the citizens' committees formed throughout Estonia in 1989 were formed into the General Committee of the Citizens of the Republic of Estonia in Tallinn. As you know, in the winter of 1990, the Estonian Citizens' Council was elected to the Estonian Congress, whose 25th anniversary we will hopefully celebrate in March next year. Another major event, mainly concerning the next year, which is organised by a large number of civil society organisations, primarily churches and congregations, and associated organisations, in cooperation with state agencies and local authorities, I would like to highlight the theme year 'Eight-century Maarjamaa'. But let us come closer to our time. I think you all agree that the last six months of the Riigikogu's work on the draft Cohabitation Act gave more than several previous years for discussions, analyses and research related to the development of civil society and democracy. Without wanting to evaluate the activities of one or the other party in substance here, the following can only be said as keywords: petitions with tens of thousands of signatures and direct appeals to all members of the Riigikogu, the use of social media, the debate on the possibility or inability to put certain questions to a referendum, justification or unreasonableness, the tolerance or failure of different opinions in the discussion, the topic of balance in the mainstream media of different opinions, demonstration as a method, increased or reduced tolerance in society, inclusion, good legislative practices, etc. Experts from different fields have an enormous amount of research. It is important to mention the public assembly among the keywords of the last two years. It is recalled that 15 of the proposals of the People's Assembly were gathered, and several of them have been implemented, along with some of them in part. The bail-in on participation in elections has been reduced, the number of members required for the establishment of a political party has been reduced, and the possibility of a legitimate popular initiative in such a way that Parliament is obliged to discuss a letter of formal notice with at least 1000 signatures collected. The excellent event that emerged from the initiative of civil society organisations, which has already become a valid and accepted forum in society in two different ways alone, is the opinion festival Paide. In addition to the joint week that will take place this year at the end of November, and the noises organised by several civil society associations and their umbrella organisations in different parts of Estonia, it can be said that there have been and will be considerable discussion events in order to make the voices and positions of NGOs heard. As the public assembly's experience shows, in one form or another, and in cooperation with public authorities, it is possible to seek and find suitable solutions in several areas. Inclusion is a keyword that is spoken of a lot but, unfortunately, is often understood differently. I admit that when talking about inclusion, many examples may be given in society where inclusion was not quite done by decision-makers, incomplete or just late. These are mistakes and experiences from which both public authorities and NGOs must certainly learn and draw conclusions together. Involvement must be a responsible process on both sides. Civil society organisations wishing to make their voice heard in their dealings with public authorities must also be responsible, constructive and more broadly shared interests. Since different civil society organisations may have diametrically different interests and positions on certain issues, the obligation to find a balanced solution falls on the authority or decision-making body that makes the final decision. If it proves impossible to find a compromise, a party whose position could not be taken into account will often face unfair accusations as if it had not been involved in the process. However, I believe that from year to year, however, we have moved in a positive direction in terms of the involvement of NGOs. However, in order for this to become self-evident in our lives, we need to continue to work together systematically. Citizens' inclusive and open policy-making processes, transparent state budget and financial management and citizen-driven public services are the focus of the Open Governance Partnership Action Plan 2014-2016 approved by the government in June. Estonia joined the Open Government Partnership two years ago, it is a plan linking more than 60 countries. Civil society is certainly directly affected by the changes introduced in the Income Tax Act this summer. For years, there has been a debate on what could be the procedure for drawing up a list of non-profit organisations, foundations and religious associations benefiting from a tax credit. In particular, in practice, the concept of charity as one of the criteria for access to the list has created problems. With the latest amendments, this has become more flexible according to those who have made legislative changes. However, the effect it will have on getting on the list or keeping on the list will be seen in the future. I would like to remind you here that in the future the relevant decisions will not be taken by the Government of the Republic, but by the Tax and Customs Board. Due to legislative changes, compensation for the costs of voluntary inclusion is also more clearly non-taxable. Volunteers are considered partners and there is no longer a question of whether or not a worker is a volunteer with a special preferential tax. This is where I move on to volunteering. The study "Volunteering participation in activities in Estonia in 2013', which was completed at the beginning of the year, revealed that almost one third of the residents have participated in voluntary activities during the last year. This indicator is comparable to the European Union average. At the same time, there are 700000 people in Estonia who are not socially very active. We could also aim to involve them more closely and to understand that the more people are actively involved in society, the more balanced decisions are made. The results of this study showed that people are involved in volunteering, as it allows emotional satisfaction in their activities and achievements, helping other people and feeling necessary in society. The most popular areas for volunteering are environmental protection, nature conservation and a sustainable lifestyle, promotion of local life, youth work and work with children. Volunteering needs moral recognition as well as practical state support in the form of training, technology and other investments. Speaking about the rescue area in the context of volunteering, I am pleased that the number of volunteers rescued and the amount of money allocated from the state budget has increased year by year. While slightly more than EUR 300000 was allocated from the state budget in 2011 to support voluntary rescue teams, the amount will be a million more next year, or EUR 1.3 million. The great common goal of the Ministry of the Interior and other government bodies should be to find additional sources of financing for voluntary activities, especially those concerning the provision of public services, in order to maximise the potential of the new financial period. Speaking a little bit more about funding, it is certainly the subject of a wider debate on the extent to which NGOs should be financially supported by the public sector and the extent to which NGOs should receive money from their members. The list of associations with income tax benefits includes about 2300 MTÜs (as opposed to more than 30000 in Estonia) and they have received a total donation of 17.3 million euros last year, which shows that Estonian people have donated quite generously to the associations. NGOs will certainly expect the state to finance them for a longer period of time and also help to cover their fixed costs. In the coming years, the proportion of services provided by the public sector will presumably increase in the money to be distributed, and the proportion of the amounts foreseen for purely grants will decrease. I would stress here that state support for NGOs can certainly contribute to solving a number of social problems, taking into account the interests of target groups and maintaining a diverse opinion culture. I believe that, as of next year, very many cooperation partners in the public sector are targeting longer-term relations than one year. We have agreed on this in principle, and at least in the area of the Ministry of the Interior, we will try to do so. As stated in the Minister's report in previous years, I will also mention this time the importance of the Civil Society Foundation for financing NGOs. As a result of the work of the Foundation, the beneficiaries have become more able and the number of important applicants has increased. For example, voluntary rescue societies, village, settlement and community societies are much better able to assess their needs and impact and to record it in projects. As regards the funding of NGOs, I also mention that last year the Ministry of the Interior, under the leadership of the Ministry of the Interior, prepared a guide for the funding of associations in Praxis, in cooperation with the Centre for Policy Studies. It clarifies the common principles and procedures for Community funding and creates the assumption that the use of public resources will be more beneficial. In particular, I would like to highlight the changes to the procedures for the organisation of company law and for the submission of annual reports. In the final part of my presentation, I will give a little thought to the preparation of the 2015-20 Civil Society Development Plan. It is expected to be submitted to the government no later than the beginning of next year. In addition to ministries, larger civil society organisations or their umbrella organisations have been involved in discussions since spring. The role of civil society organisations in society can be conditionally divided into two parts. They help prevent and solve social problems and participate in community and country decision-making and their implementation. In order to fulfil these roles, the focus should be on fewer and more concrete activities than has been included in the current development plan. Therefore, instead of five priority axes, the new development plan focuses on two: participation in decision-making and the greater role of civil society organisations in preventing and resolving societal challenges. The other three issues, such as the capacity of civil society organisations to act, volunteering and the resources needed for their work, support civil society as a support structure, i.e. providing the means and prerequisites for the development of civil society. In order to achieve these fundamental objectives, we propose three thesis. Firstly, participation is natural and valued in society, and public authorities and civil society organisations cooperate in the name of well-considered decisions. Secondly, the impact of civil society organisations on preventing and solving societal problems and improving people's well-being has increased through social innovation, social entrepreneurship and the provision of public services. Thirdly, civil society organisations with sufficient resources for development and effective action must operate in the country. When I conclude my presentation, I would like to express my hope that the members of the Riigikogu, as well as the guests, will find an opportunity to participate in an introduction event organised in the lobby of the first floor of the Riigikogu building, leading the network of social enterprises, where, in the example of 13 organisations, they will see how they solve some of the bottlenecks in society by selling their products and services. Good listeners! I am pleased to conclude that Estonian civil society is active, viable and developing. I would like to acknowledge and thank all those citizens who have decided to join the Riigikogu to develop the Estonian state and the umbrella organisations of these associations through civil society organisations. I believe that all of us have reason to participate in one way or another in directing the development of the Estonian state, and this opportunity is certainly offered by the society as a whole. Thank you and continue to have a good debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U6	Minister, there are also questions for you. Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U7	Thank you. Good minister! A fresh manifesto of NGOs has been provided here to help us, with good proposals for political decision-makers on how to promote civil society. I'm asking specifically. One of them is that the data collected by the state on NGOs must be available free of charge to everyone because they need to be used to describe and analyse relations between the society and the state. However, when you worked as the Minister of Justice in your previous job, you did not contribute to making the data of non-governmental organisations in the business register available free of charge. You are now also responsible for promoting civil society as a member of the government. Is there now hope that you will support the free use of data and that this will be possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U8	You were a little inaccurate here. As Minister of Justice, I also supported the idea that these data would be available. The question was mainly that this availability has a specific price label, which shows the additional cost to the National Information Systems Centre. If the amount on this price tag is covered by the state budget, it is certainly possible to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U9	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U10	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. I also congratulate the Reform Party on its 20th anniversary. I think that the Reform Party will make a major contribution to the fact that civil society has emerged in Estonia and is raising its head more and more. The fewer countries there are, the more civil society there is. If the state fails, civil society organisations will come to the aid. A couple of examples were given here that if the Rescue Commands were to be eliminated, relief officers would come to the rescue, and if there were no police, relief officers would come to the rescue. I ask where this limit is, so that the key functions of the country do not pass on to civil society.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U11	I do not agree with the argument that the state is failing. Country, this is all of us together. And all of us together are responsible for our safety and the preservation of our possessions. All together, that's what we're gonna do. When we talk about rescue services, for example, or, more simply, squirtmen, there are many kinds of practices in the world. We take the bulk of Central Europe from Central Europe, and only voluntary squirtmen's associations provide rescue services. It is true that they are guaranteed a significant amount of state support to have a squirt machine in place so that there is surveillance. There are already examples in Estonia that a voluntary company of sprayers or a voluntary fire-fighting company has a 24-hour security system. I do not see anything deplorable when citizens decide to organise their home country in order to better protect themselves and the property of their community. Estonia is a sparsely populated country and it is clear that the more we in small communities think about how to protect ourselves and our neighbours, the more likely it is that we will have fewer deaths in fire, for example, and nothing will happen to our assets. At this point, however, I would like to congratulate every volunteer firefighter and volunteer marine rescuer for their determination to organise and thus support the security of their communities. When it comes to the line you asked about, I wouldn't be happy to say it. It is clear that the denser the population, the greater the need for a national rescue team capable of providing 24/7 life-saving capabilities.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U12	Jüri Morozov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U13	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Some theorists have defined civil society as an opposite force to the tyranny of governments. In Estonia, the marginal number of such civil society organisations and their impact on government activities is small. Most civil society organisations have been implemented to carry out tasks that the government cannot or does not want to perform. In order to fulfil these obligations, the government generally also allocates money, but it makes the society dependent and the civil society organisations lose out on their government's oppressive role. Do you think these trends today will strengthen or weaken democracy?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U14	Thank you. As I said in my report, there must certainly be a reasonable balance between how much the state allocates to support the free sector and how much the free sector itself receives support for its activities. Returning to one of my previous responses, I repeat: the Government of the Republic and the Riigikogu have been elected by Estonian citizens. The Government of the Republic has received its mandate through the MPs. In this respect, I would not like to see such a contrast, even though we have seen it from time to time. Civil society will certainly develop as society as it develops. I do not see any pressure here when the state budget allocates funds to finance umbrella organisations or certain activities of civil society organisations. There's definitely no addiction here. But, of course, the ampoua is very wide. The sums of money allocated from the state budget to the Civil Society Foundation, which go on to NGOs, are one half. The other side is the same voluntary rescuers, including marine rescuers, who have a clear contract and have been granted public authority the right to certain activities. So the public funding models for the free sector are very broad. That's why I certainly don't want to see any confrontation here. I would rather think about how to find a reasonable balance between the services provided by non-governmental organisations financed by the state. There is also a need to think about how to support NGOs also through taxpayers' purses so that the free sector continues to develop.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U15	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U16	Thank you. Dear Minister, A number of very positive things have been mentioned in your presentation, but one trend that has been discussed for a long time has received my special attention. I understand that some of the civil society organisations you are planning to conclude longer-term agreements next year. I want to see if it's a trend. Do other ministries do that? Perhaps you can give some examples of which organisations and for how long will these agreements be concluded? I think this is a very sensible step. It has been said for a long time that we would not treat all organisations in the same way and that if ministries have chosen partners, these relationships could be longer-term.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U17	I'd be happy to explain that. I've already taken this course at the Ministry of Social Affairs, kept it at the Ministry of Justice, and now I'm going to continue at the Ministry of the Interior. These three ministries have already signed or are entering into longer-term contracts. In the Ministry of Social Affairs, this particularly concerns the very important issue of women's asylum, in the Ministry of Justice also a very important issue, i.e. free legal aid, for which we concluded a framework agreement for a longer period, and as an example of the Ministry of the Interior, I would like to mention the voluntary rescuers. We have taken the direction that contracts should be at least a couple of years old. At the same time, I stress that they can be framework agreements, because no ministry can ignore the basic law on the state budget, which says that commitments cannot be made in advance for the next few years. It is possible to draw up a basic agreement and say that, if the state budget allows, it will continue in the same volume or a certain percentage. At the end of the year, the amounts allocated will be reviewed, but the framework partners will be searched for a few or three years.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U18	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U19	Thank you. Good minister! That last answer was indeed heartwarming and positive news. But I will come back to my question about the free use of NGOs' data. You said it was the money. We are currently discussing the state budget in the Riigikogu for next year. If the members of the Riigikogu make an amendment to the budget to find the amount that you may be able to tell us exactly, knowing how much money is needed, is there hope that the government union will support such a budget change and that it will be done?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U20	This amount can be said by the Minister of Justice, as this area is managed by the Information Systems Centre. It's from the Justice Department that you can get that exact amount. As far as budget changes are concerned, as the good questioner knows very well, any change in the budget must be accompanied by both a source of cover and a precise description. But the Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Riigikogu would certainly discuss this proposal. Would it find a positive solution, it's really hard for me to say at this point in the remote. However, rather, the question is whether or not there are sources of cover.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U21	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U22	Thank you, manager. Good minister! I also commend volunteers who essentially take over the functions that the state has performed so far. If there are still no police officers in the area, there is no rescue service, which then citizens will have to join and to some extent ensure their safety. However, the fact is that people do not have full financial cover for this activity. How much state support there is and how much money the people put together is a question of their own. But citizens are forced to deal with it because the state cannot. That is the key issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U23	I believe that NGOs will emerge voluntarily to carry out their tasks. For example, people feel that they should join the neighborhood watch. This makes the neighborhood safer, and for any person who has the idea of going to such an area with evil intentions, it is clear that he has an eye on it. Neighbors are watching what's happening around here, talking to each other, and having a very good relationship. It makes the community stronger. I very much hope that Artur Talvik, who is following me, will bring out of his personal experience, whether on the basis of what is going on in Juminda or otherwise, examples of how joint action will unite the community. There's nothing coercive about it. I cannot imagine a voluntary sea rescue or law enforcement unit operating on the Juminda Peninsula doing this in any way forcibly. Then he wouldn't be an NGO. If people feel that there's a reason to join and join forces for the safety of their neighborhood, that's what they do. If not, it is always possible to point the finger at the country and tell us why you are not. If there is anything that can be done, I prefer to take steps to protect my property and not to show it to the state all the time. Who is this country? The country is a nation. Yes, we all pay money to the state budget as taxpayers, but if we have a desire, in addition to taxpayers' money, to achieve greater security in our small community, we must make an effort to do so. But we'll do it voluntarily.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U24	Väino Linde, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U25	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I have a slightly provocative question. How do Estonian political parties interact with civil society? Sometimes it is said that some of them have usurped power, especially the power of Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U26	Provocatively and briefly, replying: so and so. Whether that or more, it's in the eye of the viewer. It is true, however, that, in classical terms, political parties are a group of people who share a freely common ideology. Democratic countries are structured in such a way that power, governance, is carried out through free elections. All freely organised citizens may stand as candidates in free elections. As I have said many times, such a confrontation between the state and the people is common, but it may be populist and will not lead us forward. All citizens of the Republic of Estonia have the right to become a party and thereby participate in the exercise of state authority. I therefore do not see a positive debate on whether or not political parties have alienated the people. The Reform Party has 13,000 members. Thus, 13000 people have voluntarily announced that these principles, which apply to the Reform Party, are appropriate for them. If we take the parties represented in this Chamber, here they are all very big parties. Consequently, a very large number of people have chosen to support certain thinking and certain values as a liberal, a conservative, and a representative of some other worldview. This is the democratic regime. As the classics have said: democracy is a disgusting way of governance, but this is the best one.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U27	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U28	Thank you, Mr President. My question is based on the question of Tarmo Tamm. The answer to him was that we are all a country together, and together we are making the country safer. This means that public functions are performed not only for tax money but also through voluntary contributions. The more public service is provided as a voluntary contribution, the more the country's survival depends on that contribution. Here's my question. We read the tax money very carefully, we oblige people to pay taxes and we count it one cent at a time, we keep a record of who pays and who doesn't pay. We take offense at the latter and look for them, in the hope that they all will finally pay off. We have entire agencies for this. But if an important part of public life stays on the side of volunteering, do you not suddenly want to coordinate the volunteer a little more, in some way forcefully inspire, calculate, count, regulate?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U29	There cannot be one universal answer to this question. As regards the activities of political parties, which are also free associations, there is a separate law, a party law, to regulate their activities. There is also a separate law for non-profit organisations, which provides a general framework for how the non-profit sector can operate and what its legal bases are. Estonia had a total of 31254 non-profit organisations at the beginning of last month. Over a decade, the number of non-profit organisations and foundations registered has been stable, with an increase of around 1 500 organisations per year. That's quite a lot. According to the survey carried out, 31% of the Estonian population have participated in voluntary activities during the last year. If we started to strictly frame volunteering, it would be inhibited. As I said in my presentation, voluntary activity is also non-organised voluntary activity in legal terms. You don't have to be an NGO to call a village singer or folk dancer. You can go together, do things together without telling me the rules. I want strength, strength and more organization for the entire Estonian society! We are completely at the European average with our voluntary activities, but we could certainly be far ahead. The voice of the public is very good in society, and more and more it is starting to sound.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U30	Jüri Morozov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Our most important task in the near future is to increase the total economic output so that the people of Estonia can live better. What options or trends do you see in this regard? We know that many NGOs are involved in the provision of services. Do you see the possibility that the state, either through social entrepreneurship or in any other way, can support the growth of these NGOs into really good companies that create value for the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U32	Thank you. If one day the NGO feels that the format provided for by the Voluntary Act has grown out and wants to move forward according to the rules of business, it wants to set up a company, then there are all the possibilities for doing so. Companies have set up an NPO as founders, but there are also examples to the contrary that NPOs have set up a company. So there are different formulas to carry out your thoughts. In the legal space where we live, the frames are set in such a way that the NGO has one set of rules and the company has another. They're supposed to be different. But by looking at Estonia's legal space, I dare to confirm that the regulations in force in Estonia's legal space do not stand behind the implementation of any wishes. Even if the NGO wants to do some business in order to generate some income, or if it wants to set up a company for social entrepreneurship or whatever, these opportunities exist. And, in fact, it can be said calmly that it would be nice if in the future we could see more active activities of the society not only to achieve our statutory objectives, but also to acquire money to achieve the statutory objectives.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U33	Minister, thank you. I'm sorry, good fellows, because of that little larynx, but I thought it was kind of dark when the curtains were in the way. And if the sun doesn't stand out, the light will always do good in this northern climate. But let's move on to our discussion. I would like to ask for a speech chair in the Riigikogu to promote volunteering and film producer Artur Talvik!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U34	Hello, good people of the Riigikogu! I volunteer. My actions are governed by free will. This free will doesn't mean that I do what I want, but I want my own free will to shape politics, I want to participate in shaping our common space. And out of that free will, I'm getting a huge positive emotion. But it is not this emotion that I want to talk about here today, but about civil society. There is much talk about civil society today, while the concept of civil society is interpreted in very different ways. Civil society is like a lot of hustling, like a lot of hard work going on. Even semantically, things have gotten better. It is no longer about the third sector, it is not about the successful sector, it is about the civil society. There is no longer so much talk about non-profit organisations, or associations, which do not benefit from any kind of profit, but talk about NGOs. And listening to all this, it feels like things are good. But civil society, which I want to talk about, is a society in which society as a whole is a civil society. We are all members of this civil society and all of us, of our own free will, want to shape the policies of this society. In order for us to be able to shape it, we have gathered together in communities no matter what they are now called. The community is also understood in different ways. When Obama talks here, I don't know, about the international community, and some mayor talks about his parish as a community, I still mean communities that represent the interests of minorities. And especially well, I know communities that are geographic communities that could be compared to settlement farms or villages. And in these communities there are brave citizens who really want to interfere in the creation of politics. But at this very moment, if they want to shape politics forcefully, there's a glass ceiling or wall or what the metaphor is. There is also talk of road roller policy, etc. And that is what we should get rid of or overcome in civil society. I don't know why. One of these reasons is certainly mistrust. It's a two-sided mistrust or a three-way or a four-way. I do not want to contradict anything here, but it is possible that this is, in some respects, a fundamental question that we treat our society as a'service society', where people are taxpayers, citizens are taxpayers, and it is as if they should be patriated for this tax. And if they don't get the services, they'll go to another service provider. This is not the civil society I want to live in. Civil society is a society of courageous citizens. These courageous citizens make up the security of society. We are currently talking a lot about security, and also about the existence of Article 5 of the NATO Treaty. Very many even know what this article contains. At the same time, very little is said of another article 5. This is the Treaty on the European Union, which has Article 5, which talks about the principle of subsidiarity, that is to say, that decisions should be taken at the lowest possible level. I repeat, at the lowest possible level! This principle of subsidiarity we remember when we relate Estonia to the European Union, but within our country we forget the principle of subsidiarity. The decision-making levels are always moving higher, far beyond the grassroots level. And it can even be said that in Estonian society it is unaccustomed that the grassroots level makes any decisions at all. Let me give you an example here. Perhaps the lack of subsidiarity is one of the reasons why such a glass ceiling is ahead of citizens' societies. I would like to stress: citizens' society. I would exactly use this word in plural to reduce the impact of individualism in Estonia. But now this example. I live in an area that is a very restricted area, or Lahemaa National Park. From time to time, new protection rules, new regulations are being made in this region, how we can live there. In the process of developing these regulations, there are engagement processes and these are quite annoying processes, if you can imagine. But in the course of these engagement processes, individuals are invited and not used to communicating with the community as a whole. We came up with a community proposal that very nice, you see, we have a community here and we're ready to live in this restricted zone, but we'd like to make a deal with you. We would like to be visited as natives, and that we can only build one kind of roof, get something in return that might also be important in terms of cultural heritage. And we said give us the right to share fishing permits in return. When we came up with a proposal like this, the department freaked out and said, "Whoa-whoa-whoa-whoa, that's not where you can decide." We asked why we can't decide if you can decide which roofs we need to have. This is a typical example of a lack of subsidiarity or a lack of trust, a fear of allowing matters to be decided as far as possible at grassroots level. But I also want to praise you. I actually really like the fact that the rescue is largely in the hands of volunteers. I'm a volunteer savior myself. I'm a volunteer marine rescuer, and we volunteered our rescue company, of course, not because somebody decided that now you're gonna have to start your own kind of rescue company. It is surprising how, on the basis of such voluntary rescue, a very strong community can develop, precisely on the basis of rescue. Communities can become very xenophobic. But the prerequisite for being a savior is that you're going to save everyone, regardless of their gender, orientation, nationality, age, I don't know what yet. You're just going to save him, regardless of his social affiliation and everything else. Riilalu, don't comment on my speech, please! By creating this rescue society, we started all of our activities using our assets, our boats, our means of rescue, all of it, plus our time. On one occasion, one of our members had noticed that an old boat had been standing in the courtyard of the Maritime Administration for several years. We were wondering if we could ask ourselves this to increase our'sea rescue capacity'. It was a long process, and during this process, the officials asked me why you must have it. Then I very convincingly explained to them that we have the means to fix this boat, and our community wants to put money in it to increase the local rescue capacity. Now I can say I was actually bluffing because I didn't know where the money was coming from. That was quite a lot of money, over EUR 10000. But when we had brought that boat there and started repairing it, a small miracle began to occur in a sense. The members of the community who had never shown up before suddenly came out of the ground. They'd been sitting in their garden all along, but now, one by one, they said I'd like to help you fix this boat. Boys, you're doing a good thing, I'll get you, I don't know, a grinding machine, I'll get you some paint, I'll buy you some new propellers. Honestly, my faith in the Estonian state and my faith in the Estonian people changed dramatically. I was really somewhere in a fairy tale, I couldn't believe my eyes or my ears. But it came true! Yes, I think that a strong civil society is a civil society that can itself finance itself, where people are acting out of their own free will and are not trying to set themselves up at the level of the national or government nipples in order to get a constant flow of budget from somewhere. Perhaps this is now the right place to say a few words on the proposals for financing and funding. We are talking a lot about an inclusive budget and an inclusive budget. The birth of a strong civil society should also be the right for citizens to channel their own money not through representatives, but quite themselves into societies that strengthen their communities and, for example, ensure their safety. I have long wondered why citizens could not direct any percentage of their income tax to support such associations. This would create a situation where we would really see the associations that citizens need. There are some dangers, but this is a topic that the Riigikogu could hold debates on. Secondly, project-based funding is a great thing and there are certainly projects that need to be done. I treat project-based funding rather than giving impetus to civil society organisations. However, if they build up all their activities in addition to this project-based funding, it is kind of absurd. It doesn't make them strong, let's just say that. Finally, I would like to call on everyone to participate at grassroots level in some sort of action for the benefit of their community. This could also be done by Members of Parliament, rather than simply going to teach how life should be, but going to participate in order to understand where the glass ceiling is, which is currently blocking the emergence of a real civil society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U35	Thank you, dear waitress. You have a lot of questions, too. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U36	Thank you, Mr President. My name was left on the board actually to ask the Minister of the Interior. In the meantime, I thought that perhaps Mr Talvik would give a more interesting answer to this question. In fact, the Minister of the Interior quite rightly stated that, in classical terms, the party is also part of the NGOs and the civil society. In Estonia, political parties have legal rules and several advantages, especially financial ones. By doing so, they are quite distinct from the other fellowship. The first question is whether it is right. Secondly, to what extent does the society even perceive political parties as part of civil society in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U37	I can't speak for the whole society. I don't know how the ward feels about it. I know how I feel or some of the people I know feel. I think that in order to have a strong civil society, as I have already mentioned, much more philanthropy would be needed in society than can be said to be the case. I am thinking of understanding that organisations should be supported by membership fees, donations and grants. It is the Riigikogu that should create the conditions for more and more of these opportunities. Even if this so-called 'roof money' is being distributed, which we call 'political scratching', which is quite humiliating for NGOs, even if it is being distributed, it should be aimed at the spread of philanthropic thinking in society. If money is given, let those who seek more money themselves be given. As far as political parties are concerned, they should, above all, set an example for society as a whole in the emergence of such a'self-perceived' society. Perhaps it is my clear position that the fact that the party hangs on the tip of the national teat, i.e. the huge amounts that come from the budget to support the parties, distinguishes the society from the party. Political parties could live exactly the same way with membership fees, donations, I don't know, sponsorship under certain conditions. And then we could treat political parties as an equal part of the civil society. Was my answer enough?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U38	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U39	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Arthur! You were talking about involvement, you were talking about voluntary sea rescues. We sat here last night discussing a bill that came from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. It was a draft on maritime safety, which aims, among other things, to reduce the right of small ships to consume alcohol when they are at sea. My question to you is two parts. Were volunteer marine rescuers involved in the drafting of this bill, and how do you feel about being allowed to drink at sea by small ships, so that their blood contains 0.5 milligrams of alcohol?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U40	I'm taking it normally, so common sense could be the one to follow when driving a boat at sea. If you, I don't know, drink a beer or take a little rum, that's not a problem. But the problem is, unfortunately, there's no limit to that one rum. My rescue experience is that most of the times we go to the rescue of overdrinking people who have gone to sea driving a boat. As far as inclusion is concerned, I don't like the word 'inclusion', I'd rather talk about participation. Civil society or this grassroots level should be regarded as an equal partner and as a 'local expert'. It is more important that this local or local expert participates in the preparation of such draft laws.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U41	Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U42	Thank you. I also have a question with two sides. We are talking here about connections and their networks, etc. I want to ask you about yourself: how many organizations are you represented in? And how does it feel that this number can still grow? Do you want to participate in as many organizations as possible to put your thoughts into practice? Is there room for improvement here? The second question is about a glass ceiling or a glass wall. Maritime and lake rescues are a good example that there are also glass walls, which are differences of opinion between organisations. How do you get rid of these walls? It's probably as important as eliminating the glass ceiling.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U43	First of all, these walls. In my opinion, Estonia could be as horizontal a society as possible. There could be as little vertical as possible. Maybe the ceiling is the wrong word, but I also called the wall or wall. And these ceilings are not always between public authority and grassroots level; they are also at grassroots level itself, they are between grassroots level and entrepreneurs, etc. It is like a multi-layered thing, and it should not be taken as a contrast: public power versus residents or citizens. The ceiling is in my business. By the way, speaking of very many associations, I would point out that there are two representative organisations in the sea rescue. I've worked so hard to get them together. I've written a letter of about 20 points to both sides to explain why it's bullshit that we have two associations. But that is not the main issue today. If I'm talking about myself, my volunteering has a ceiling on it anyway. By hitting together last year, I received about three and a half months, which were furnished with really voluntary activities. I have recently turned down a lot of proposals to take part in one or another, because there are many things that I, or rather we, stress, not just me, but we are in the middle of a community, and they take a lot of time away. The civil society I am talking about is young, and it is going to take a lot of time now.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U44	Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U45	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I know for a fact that you are an Estonian patriot. As the international situation has changed somewhat, my question is that we have voluntary relief police, we have voluntary rescuers, we have the Defence League. You're active in rescue work, and you're also working on internal security in your area. What do you think of the suggestion that you and your entire active company, as a Defence League unit, be armed, equipped, trained for military, police and rescue activities, and that you ensure complete security throughout the wide range of risks in this area? Let's be honest, a Russian landing could land on the Juminda Peninsula in a few years' time, and its operational exclusion might also be a task for local men. Should we consider putting these tasks together?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U46	Yeah, we're ready for the Russian landing on the Juminda Peninsula. Don't worry! But imposing a military state on the community is a very difficult issue. This readiness must come from the grassroots level in the community. It's not like the Defence League comes in and says, "Hey, you're a cool group here, you're dealing with internal security, take on one more responsibility." It has to be that the community itself realizes that, hey, that's a pretty interesting idea. By the way, we've been discussing that if we have boats and ships and if the Defence League has some sort of naval division, maybe we should work with this division. Maybe look for common features. After all, we have boats, we can transport the defence allies somewhere or whatever we want to do to get this cooperation started. But readiness must come from the community itself. Theoretically, our community has this readiness. But do they want to organize directly into the Defence League? I'm sure I'd like to cooperate.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U47	Tiit Tammsaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U48	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I thought it was great that you once again reminded the Riigikogu of the principle of subsidiarity. It tends to be forgotten in this big hall, what's to deny. You're talking about sea rescues, I have more contact with free-will sprayers. There was a time when there was strong support for freely-minded firemen, and suddenly almost all the money was taken away from them. The cars were there, the men were there, and the parishes started organizing it themselves. Very many units, however, went out of business. Now things are going in a positive direction, and it is commended that you are doing well. Do you think the proportion of voluntary versus national is currently in place or could there be any other trends?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U49	I wouldn't be afraid to give the functions of the state to more volunteers. But you have to consider the ceiling coming up. Clearly, if there's a major accident, we can help with our own volunteers, but everything needs to be managed and coordinated by the professionals. Just like that, things have to be in the fire department in the balance. The question is whether the great dangers of professional property are covered by the state. Small threats, i.e. internal security, could be addressed by communities. There's a photo shoot up in the balcony, by the way!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U50	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U51	Thank you. Dear Artur Talvik! Your story about how the renovation of one of the lifeboats increased your faith in the Estonian state was very touching. But my question is about a few years ago. In 2012, you were one of the spokespersons in the protests against ACTA. You said you wanted to protest against arrogant politicians who are not listening to their citizens and to defend fundamental democratic rights. Our Prime Minister at the time has now become the Commissioner for Digital Affairs of the European Union. In the current situation, do you believe that these demonstrations, which were not only in Estonia but across Europe, were useful and ACTA would not be accepted?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U52	The demonstrations against ACTA were one of the first steps taken by true civil society in Estonia. It was awkward, but a successful step. I think it was very useful, also in the sense that it began to understand what a true civil society was. The person who was protested to a large extent at the time is really a digital Commissioner. At first, there is a big question as to whether he has been able to learn and has undergone a change thanks to ACTA's protest. Nor do we know whether his appointment is based on such a cynical policy that a person was simply put in office because some place was left over. I can't answer that. But I regard the demonstrations against ACTA as important, in any case, precisely in terms of the emergence of a true civil society in Estonia. In digital matters, I'm certainly not a specialist, but if I see somewhere in arrogance and superiority, I'm gonna fight back. And I think every citizen should do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U53	Ken-Marti Vaher, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U54	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, Just as you have done a great deal to promote voluntary rescue and security at all, I had a good opportunity in my former profession to place on my shoulders many activities involving free-will rescuers and police officers. It's about being on the teat of the country. In recent years, state support for free-will rescuers and rescue teams has grown significantly. But we have one association, the Voluntary Salvation League, which, as a umbrella organization, has been receiving significant sums of money from this hall for six or seven years as a result of the political scratching of your languages in the late autumn of each year and has financed its activities. My question is simple: how could this umbrella organisation, if there was no money coming from the state budget, manage independently?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U55	I'm a simple member of this organization, but I've been trying to put in place a way of thinking that we have to manage ourselves. If we manage ourselves, we will be stronger partners, whether to the government or to anyone with whom we have contractual relations. In order for this stronger partnership to emerge, the financing of voluntary rescuers should be independent. Right now, that statement is in here the same way. Pay attention to this statement: it says that we need money to hire money seekers, that is, people who would promote philanthropy in society, who would explain to businesses and citizens that we are the guarantors of your security, and you ensure our independence and strength. As for being on the tip of a country's teat, there's a clear difference. If we are dealing with community security and we have some kind of car and there are fixed costs involved, then it should still be supported by the state. But I don't think all the activities should be supported by the state. Of course, rescue must be supported and regulated. However, local associations become stronger when the community realises that they are their associations. On the other hand, these associations should not be left entirely alone. This question must be considered very well in the government or, I don't know, in the Riigikogu to have the state budget options, to have the conditions to carry out their work so necessary. For example, the provision of buildings on the national balance sheet, even if any, can be made available to these associations. It doesn't always have to be money. A legislative framework that reduces strangling bureaucracy can also help. There are several levers, but the direction that we can manage on our own, just as the Swedes and Norwegians can, as in many other countries, as well as the fire services in very many European countries, can be a good course. This is the basis for a strong partnership. I stress the word 'partnership'. At the moment, officials generally have the view that the ooh, the volunteer emerged, so they became a new subordinate. It is necessary to make the financing model independent in order to break this relationship of subordination.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U56	Dear Artur Talvik, thank you for your presentation and your answers. No further questions. I open negotiations and ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu Siim Kisler! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U57	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! First of all, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a written document has also been submitted to our debate today. It is a manifesto of NGOs with the subtitle 'What benefits the state can gain from the society and how it can be increased'. It contains very clear and concrete proposals, which I would ask everyone to take seriously and consider whether you would be prepared to support all or at least some of these proposals. When I discussed these proposals with the honourable leader of the EMSL, Maris Jõgeva, he noted that this manifesto reflects three key areas and that their main proposals are not new at all. The raising of these topics can also be considered in the verbatim reports of the Riigikogu, which reflect discussions on the implementation of the concept of development of Estonian civil society, which took place two years ago, four years ago, six years ago. The aim of the EKAK is to create an environment in Estonia where associations of entrepreneurial people can grow, develop and work towards solving societal problems and achieving their goals. And we can say that, compared to 12 years ago, when the EKAK, this very good document, was adopted, things have improved considerably. This whole path of improvement has been bumpy and twisted, but the direction has clearly been right. It is all the more difficult to accept that some relatively simple and, at the same time, very necessary steps to promote civil society have been discussed every two years, but still these steps have not been taken. For example, it is incomprehensible why we are still only debating that the data collected by the state on NGOs must be available free of charge to everyone, because they need to be used to clarify and analyse relations between the society and the state. Today's statement by the Minister for the Interior revealed that we are still at a zero point in this matter and that the attitude towards solving the problem is lukewarm. As a second example, I would point out that the new manifesto refers again: 'The work of the Riigikogu must be made more open by involving direct draft stakeholders in discussions in committees. ' It is hard to understand why the draft stakeholder involvement is going so hard. It was only last year that the proposal for the Board of the Riigikogu to appoint and give names as to which NGOs may participate in the discussions of the drafts was discussed. Unbelievable! These problems, as an example, could be behind the agenda in the next Riigikogu debate in two years' time, and I believe that the government union that will be set up in March next year will be fully capable of achieving this. The Fatherland and Res Publica Union consider it necessary, and even after the elections in the near future, to take a number of further steps to promote civil society, apart from these examples. Most importantly, I call the following objectives: firstly, to create start-up and growth support for social enterprises and to do so by increasing the annual budget financing of the Civil Society Foundation by at least EUR 300000; secondly, to create incubators for social enterprises in two regions of Estonia and thirdly, to organise the practice of financing NGOs by introducing multi-annual agreements between ministries and their strategic partners in general. It was very nice to hear that the Minister of the Interior also considers this step to be important. This is a clear shared role in our objectives. As you can see, it is relatively easy to take concrete steps in the near future. May these examples encourage us to believe that not everyone may succumb to difficult, ordinary discussions. By making certain clear changes in the public sector, it is possible to give more power to NGOs and at least to turn them into part-spending servants. Looking at the current situation, the current government union has not taken any steps to strengthen civil society. We must say this with regret, but unambiguously. Rather, we are in a situation where we really need to discuss how the true leader of civil society promotion, the CFEL, or the Foundation for Civil Society, must cope with the reduction in the financial volumes of support programmes. Indeed, as early as next year, the Swiss Support Fund will no longer open new rounds of support for non-governmental organisations, and their chances of obtaining material assistance are clearly smaller. When it comes to the steps taken by the current government union to promote civil society, I have, in fact, been seriously surprised twice by the Reform Party and the Alliance of Social Democrats. The first time was when this government union boldly and forcefully raised its inclusion into the flag letter, which was particularly heard by the new President of the Riigikogu. These were powerful statements and led to very high expectations. By now, however, I have received a completely different surprise. The views of citizens and the involvement of NGOs have not been rolled over so harshly for a long time. To be honest, I can't remember the last time they were so cruel. It is characteristic that no one talks anymore about the Riigikogu road roller crossing the opposition. It used to be normal. Now, by way of a road roll by Toompea, it means crossing the opinion of active citizens. This road roll, which was present here in Toompea yesterday and ran over the slogans of the representative organisations of disabled people, was already in place in this hall much earlier in a spiritual sense when other drafts were discussed. It is good that the active citizens of the Riigikogu elections, which will take place shortly, can compare the programmes and promises of political parties with the principles and values of the EKAK. There are likely to be substantive changes then, especially if the civil society insists on fulfilling its promises consistently. Finally, I assure you that the promotion of civil society will not succeed unless the public sector changes itself in certain matters. And these specific changes, perhaps not very big, will perhaps be followed by new, substantive and significant progress in the activities of our NGOs. The IRL is ready for such a change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U58	I ask the Riigikogu to speak to Inara Luigas! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U59	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I will begin my speech on the subject that perhaps hurts most in civil society. A good citizen senses his place in the world among other people and understands that living things are more important than things. However, many members of our society are excluded, if not said to be abandoned. They are driven away from us, forced to live in the dark and the corner. For them, it is as if a different world of life struggle has arisen, from which they do not have a way out and the existence of which other societies do not even want to acknowledge. There is no hope or bright tomorrow in this world. The only formal point of contact with success-Estonia is the grant thrown against the will of the state. These cripples do not allow people with disabilities to cope or heal themselves, not to mention the disabling integration with the rest of our society. For the first time in the Commission, it was difficult to believe your ears when you heard about the reform of working capacity. Usually, if something's too good to be true, it's not true. I listened to a wonderful presentation with slides, which had been thoroughly worked out by people with disabilities, and I thought that Estonia had finally grown up. We are getting to the next stage of development. We no longer need to look up to Finland and admire how human-friendly the issues of people with disabilities have been resolved there, how they have been brought into the light of day and become full members of society. Thanks to the labour capacity reform, Estonia is taking a very big and important step. We have actually started to create a socially integrated society that does not force some of us to be in the shadows of society and to deal with our concerns on our own. We have begun to create the foundation of a society where people with loss of health are also welcome, where they are as much as possible involved in our daily activities and joys. Just as reform itself is a new quality in our social development, the Riigikogu demonstrated its positive face in this debate. Parliament has been anything but a government rubber stamp on this subject. 23 meetings of the Social Affairs Committee, with organisations representing people with disabilities, speak for themselves. The doors of the Riigikogu are open and the legislators listen to people who are involved and who are affected. Nobody gets ignored, nobody gets run over, nobody gets run over. Work capacity reform is a change of mindset, and real implementation of it is a change of mind for all of our societies, for all of us. Yeah, I'm willing to see the crutches or the wheelchair guy next to me. I'm willing to open doors for disabled people and help a person upstairs in a wheelchair. I am willing to compensate, as my civic contribution, for what our country has yet to do, for example, to build a roadway for people in wheelchairs. I'm ready to do all this, and I can't even imagine thinking otherwise. Society is a team. The emergence of the people's own initiative was very important in achieving the national goals of the Estonian community and ensuring a sense of belonging. Citizens woke up, gathered and organized, everyone found a role to play with enthusiasm. Civil society organisations are necessary to ensure the continuity of a democratic process involving residents. That's not possible without them. Individuals and the state are not opponents; they are partners who, acting together in a skilful way, can achieve something that we all dream about. Cooperation between civil society organisations and public authorities creates opportunities to express and pursue citizens' interests, values and objectives. In this way, the soil will be created for discussion, mutual assistance and operational solutions. By listening to citizens and thus making the right decisions, the main thing is: the continuation and development of Estonian nation and culture. In the context of the labour capacity reform, the question of what is a high-quality society needs to be answered. Many of us have lived at such a time and in a society where the quality of life was marked by, for example, transistor radio. This quality mark must have meant that you have reached a higher level than many and have something that many have only dreamed of. At the time, the quality label could, of course, be bought on paper at the store and glued them everywhere, but it didn't really get any better than that. Now we live in a different society, where the quality mark printed on paper or stamped with rubber makes nothing better. There is a need for substantive solutions and consideration of the real interests of all members of society, as well as for real compromises and solutions. There's no other way to go. Civil society organisations have got their wings in Estonia, which could even be called a positive development explosion. The processing of the Cohabitation Act is a good example of the fact that democracy in Estonia works. The Riigikogu is in office to serve the people and the choices are made by society. The law of cohabitation was like a test, the procedure of which went against the background of a very strong response and as if dividing society. There was a clear distinction between those who advocated the triumph of democracy on the one hand and those who supported conservative values on the other. There were attacks, there was praise, there was media bias. The flood of letters that hit members of the Riigikogu buried several other topics and daily operational information. Messages came at a frequency of one letter every 20 seconds. In the end, the pros and cons were more or less in relation to 50: 50. It had to be decided. The law was passed. Some rejoiced, others grieved. Democracy is accompanied by strong arguments for and against, emotions, active discussion in society. Someone loses in the context of a specific draft and somebody wins, but our society, as a whole, wins and wins all its members. Let's move on together! We will move forward to build a better and more perfect society step by step, one that the people expect from us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U60	Riigikogu speech chair Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U61	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Several of the above points make me discuss the question of how free democracy is, in fact, and how free our free society is. I think that a number of recent issues, such as the need for a two-chamber Parliament, the need for a House of Lords or the need for a completely opposite direction, the need to reduce the composition of Parliament, indicate that there are deep problems in our representative democracy. All the solutions mentioned are, in my opinion, naive, to say the least. At the same time, I am also somewhat sceptical about the widespread view that representative democracy is over and that something completely new will come in place. But that's more or less what Rein Lang and I have in common. I see more acute problems. We really have formed state parties. But according to theory, the party should also be a civil society and, in this sense, a civil society, involving both bottom-up growth and what Mr Talvik referred to, that is, voluntary contributions in the form of, among other things, marginal membership fees. Mr Pevkur mentioned the movement of citizens' committees and the Estonian Congress. In my opinion, this was an exceptionally mature and extremely necessary movement in Estonia's history, an example of how citizens can organise and intervene in politics. We also have an example of the people's assembly. Yes, this too is an outstanding example, but certainly weaker in its political influence. I am of the opinion that the Riigikogu has taken only cosmetic details into account from the proposals of the Riigikogu, marginalising its impact in fact further. I will give a second to Jüri Adams, who has rightly stressed several times that the Estonian political system is not free enough in terms of the submission of lists and the nomination of candidates in the elections to the Riigikogu. Yes, NGOs, NGOs can't do that. Not only have political parties also been deprived of the opportunity to form blocs. In addition, there are a number of formal organisational constraints and inequalities in funding, which actually limits how citizens can intervene in politics. I thought it was a very good example of the road roll brought by Mr Kisler when he said that the coalition was going over everything, and now the party programmes have to be examined. The reference was that perhaps opposition programs were better. I think the question is more fundamental. The question is, in case people sense that the whole cartel is driving over them, can something work out for themselves? We do not have this opportunity and, in the long term, it threatens the development of the Estonian political system. Another one now turned out to be the dependence of the free sector, including a very clear financial dependence on the country, which Mr Morozov pointed out in his question. I am quite concerned, frankly, that this addiction has made many representatives of the NGOs cautious in order not to be discouraged. Do not dare to take a stand on political issues or anything else. In this regard too, there should be more citizenly courage in our society. This political dominance of the state hampers the development of the civil society to a disturbing extent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U62	Thank you. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Paul-Eerik Rummo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U63	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen of the Civil Society! I am speaking here, both as the representative of this party, who entered the arena with the manifesto of the citizens' state, and as a'veteran' who took an active part in the process of developing civil society. In 2002, it was approved in this Chamber. Today it is asked whether I then imagined Estonian society as we now have it. The answer is more like no. A dozen years is a long time. Moreover, a large number of discussions, in all forms and involving many interested people, have been preceded by the completion of the text that was to be locked since and before the restoration of statehood. The intention was to contribute to the restoration of a free society. But, of course, it was not possible to foresee and even less predict exactly how and what the structure of society and self-reflection would become. And thank God, because the concept of society already inherently embraces the stylish self-organization and the natural development of self-organization mechanisms. Moreover, and it is important to recall this concept during the debate on the current agenda, this concept is far from covering all possible issues relating to the concept of civil society and was not intended to do so at all. The aim of this concept was to adapt the framework to the relations and cooperation between civil society, on the one hand, and the state, public authorities, on the other. This means, inter alia, that the State, in the sense of public authority, is only one of the factors affecting the functioning of the judiciary, the way in which it operates and the way in which it operates. The main spring still lies in the society, society, the people themselves, which in turn means that activities affecting the functioning of public authority, such as the pursuit of involvement and real participation, guardianship associations, protests, occupy actions, memos, etc., are only part of the functioning of the society alongside activities carried out under the free initiative of the state apparatus. This latter aspect is covered by the concept of development, which is a framework agreement between the state and the civil society. This is in the sense that it is up to the state to create a legal environment that allows people of good will to live their lives freely and promote it at their best. Today, this concept is becoming more or less self-evident. The background to the conception was, however, a far too vivid memory of the totalitarian state-centredness of more than half a century with its psychological transfers and aftereffects. The basic construction of a free state was completed before a society with sufficient perception of its freedom. In a paradoxical way, at least in part, it was that, contrary to the process that was common in history, the state had to start creating its own people. In fact, there was a high risk of re-emerging state-centred, personal helplessness and addiction to the people who had just sung free from foreign rule, this time in their own country. The representatives of the country in this process, however, were able to make more or less use of this tempting chance. Yet, the relapses of state-centredness sometimes tend to be knocked out now, feeding both cleverer and less populism. A free, responsible man and woman in a free country, among other equivalents, I would not dare to answer if I were asked how widely and deeply this feeling is already rooted in us. Probably a lot more than a dozen or two dozen years ago. One thing is obvious: the structure of society has changed greatly, already on an elementary level, such as families, groups of friends, working groups. I'm asking for a little extra time!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U64	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U65	Thank you. Technological leaps have radically changed the mechanics of information dissemination and perceptions, attitudes, values formation and generation, and the possibilities of triggering actions in the physical world have also changed. Both social and geographical mobility have increased, while the proportion of attitudes without more career ambitions in society has increased. Communitys practicing a community-like way of life not only in virtual but also in physical spaces, both in cities and in the countryside. The simultaneousness of labour and labour shortages is more evident than ever, reflecting people's long-term self-search while at the same time giving strong transitions to all social relationships. It has to be said that the operation of the mythological third sector as an anachronism, forever recorded in registers and supported by public funds, is beginning to become. Should such a course of action cause us anxiety, or is it a natural unpolitic and unmanageable development? Perhaps this course of action will prevent the civil society from over-institution and bureaucracy, the emergence of a kind of parallel state? This trend is also noticeable. I will leave these questions in the air and answer everyone's own answer, forecasting for the next dozen years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U66	The speech chair of the Riigikogu, Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U67	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, During the presentations, there were some thoughts that I would like to share with you, and I hope you don't mind if I do. When I listened to the reports, I wondered why people volunteered. Why do people want to go and do something about their spare time, spend their energy on things? I think the answer is simple: people want to take more responsibility for the society in which they live. They want to take more responsibility for this community, for the people they communicate with. Why are they doing this? Why do they do so as volunteers? They do this because they don't have a second output, they don't get to this Chamber of the Riigikogu, they can't speak so loudly that they're being listened to. Proposals have been made in this Chamber to make the Riigikogu multilevel, but in doing so we forget a very simple thing: we also have a local government level. I had this idea: is it not the right time to review the division of functions between the state and local governments? When people become volunteers because they want to protect their area and worry about their area, is it not the right time to transfer some of the functions of the country to the local government level? After all, people do not have to be members of a large party in order to make political decisions and organise their lives. When we talk financially about the division of labour between the state and local authorities, the country is roughly 75% of the functions and the local government is 25%. In order to get to the Riigikogu with a personal mandate, it is necessary to collect about 5000 votes. In order to become a local government council, there is no need for such a large amount of vote. As a member of civil society, I think it is important to be more involved in making specific decisions, and this is a good opportunity at the local government level. So maybe it's just the right time to start this discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U68	Thank you. Aivar Riisalu, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U69	Mr. Deputy Speaker! I want to talk about one of the issues I think is important in this changed time. We all see that the international security situation is no longer the same, and the processes in our immediate neighbour are mysterious. Five years ago, we didn't even think that a direct threat of war could be so close to us. But now to today's subject. We have a great many good volunteer citizens, and they could be divided into three categories from a security point of view. Those who are members of the Defence League of the military organisation, others who are auxiliary police officers, i.e. they ensure internal security through police action, and the third group of volunteers contribute to rescue. All three areas are crucial for ensuring the basic safety of people. Often, these same volunteers are also part of a number of organisations. We are always talking about the fact that apart from the Defence League, which is relatively well funded and equipped as part of the national defence structure, the remaining volunteers are struggling with chronic lack of money. This is particularly the case with the Ministry of the Interior. The draft National Defence Act came into the procedure at the Riigikogu, where all the national defence components have been tried to unite into one whole, so that it is understandable what the content of the security of the Estonian state should be. I can see very clearly now that the time is ripe for us to gather all the parties at the table and try to combine the force of volunteers in such a way that these three different directions are joined together, so let's call it land protection, or whatever it is, under one holistic management. These very good volunteers must be able to feel that they have the support of the state and that all the resources allocated to this objective have been used effectively. The society as a whole must see that the good men and women involved in voluntary security are ready to come to the aid not only in the event of a maritime accident or a fire, but also ready to protect their fellow citizens from criminals and, if necessary, to deny them militaryly. This tearing the deck in different directions, trying to cover quite a lot of the same people, does not make sense in our small society to the end. This discussion should be taken to a new level. Whoever happened to watch "The Spectator" last night saw a passage where the Director-General of the Police and Border Guard Board said that in a sense the Agency's resources were exhausted. We can't blame him for that, and he's not responsible for it. We have come to a phase where the role of volunteers is most welcome, especially in the area of security. Let us be reasonable! We have a small crowd. There are many people in this small nation who are willing to volunteer for internal security as well as security in a broader sense. Let us try to support them by creating an effective system! There are places to think. I very much hope that we will be able to carry out this debate sensibly and achieve a good result, as we have achieved in Estonia. After all, Estonia is the best place to live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U70	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. This item is closed. I would like to thank all those who contributed to the debate on this crucial national issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U71	We are going to the next item on the agenda, which is the second reading of the Defence Forces Service Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Implementation of the Defence Forces Service Act and the Amendment to the Health Services Organisation Act 721. Aivar Riisalu, Vice-Chairman of the National Defence Commission, will give a speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U72	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, By quoting a classic colleague, it can be said that this is a very good bill that clarifies the social guarantees for the defence forces and the defence allies in case something bad happens to them in the performance of their duties. The National Defence Committee has done its job, and I will report to you what our understandings are. The deadline for tabling amendments was s. No proposals were made on 29 October at 5.15 p.m. The draft provides for a veteran policy for the Defence Forces and the Defence League, providing additional guarantees for both veterans and their family members. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft at its meetings of 3 November and 10 November before submitting it to second reading, where the text of the draft second reading and the explanatory memorandum were approved by consensus. At its meeting on 3 November, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that the draft be included on the agenda of the plenary session for the second reading. a by 13 November. The National Defence Committee also decided by consensus to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the second reading of the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U73	Thank you, Aivar Riisalu! Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions, it's clear. Do you want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. No amendments to the draft were received. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 721. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U74	Our third item today is the first reading of the draft law amending the law on law enforcement initiated by the Estonian Central Party Group. I would like to present a speech chair to Mikhail Korbi, member of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U75	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This summer, a new law enforcement law came into force, under which alcohol consumption in public places became acceptable. This means that a man sitting on a park bench with a bottle of beer became unwelcome in our society. Many parents asked me and my colleagues how we explain this situation to our children, knowing that excessive consumption of alcohol is a major problem in our society. Some local governments, such as Tallinn, Pärnu and Elva, banned drinking in certain places on their territory. The Minister of Justice commented on this as a violation of the law. This raises the question of what law is the political decision that has been taken on the basis of the will of the people or the political decision that has been the subject of a road roll policy? Personally, I'm starting with the first one. In general terms, when it comes to people's attitude towards alcohol policy, people are more in favour of restrictions. This is confirmed by statistical indicators, which show that the share of those who have advocated strict restrictions has increased since 2011. The most recent survey has been carried out by the Institute of Health Development of Turku and shows that 82% of respondents are not in favour of allowing the use of alcoholic beverages in public places. On the first day of the autumn session of the Riigikogu, the Group of the Centre Party handed over a draft wishing to restore s. a the procedure prior to 1 July, according to which alcohol consumption in the public domain was not permitted. This is a bill that we are working on today in this Chamber. As I have already said, the draft proposes to restore the general principle that alcohol consumption in public space is not allowed. In addition to the general ban, two exceptions would be introduced. First, alcoholic beverages can be consumed at the place where the drinks are sold at the retail stage for consumption on the spot. The drink must have been bought there. This was the case before s. a 1 July when the law was amended. Secondly, alcoholic beverages may be consumed in the case provided for by the legislation of the local government council. It follows from the principle that the local authority is an independent and final decision-maker in matters of local life. Public events such as fairs or Pärnu Grillfest are activities for which the permit and conditions are decided by the local government and not by the state. The law must therefore leave the municipality the right to determine under which conditions certain one-off events may be organised. Before I ask you to support this bill, I will look back to September this year. Following the transfer of the Central Party's draft, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Justice convened a round table to discuss the issue of alcohol. The support for our draft was obvious, almost everyone was there saying that they could not condemn the ban on drinking in public places. In order not to admit his mistake and not to give the right to the opposition party, the Government of the Republic prepared its own draft, which is unfortunately confusing. And most importantly, there is no impact analysis. So if you ask why the Centre Party bill is better, the answer is simple. This is the restoration of the regulation that worked and the impact of which can be considered to be a real situation, life itself. Finally, since our draft and the draft of the Government of the Republic have a common objective of banning alcohol consumption in public places, I propose that the draft of the Group of the Centre Party should not be voted down, but that the two be joined together. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U76	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. We're going to the co-rapporteur, the co-rapporteur is Chairman of the Legal Affairs Committee Neeme Suur. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U77	Madam Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs dealt with the Centre Party draft 717 on Monday, 3 November. Marko Pomerants, Väino Linde Igor Gräzin's alternate member, Jüri Morozov, Kalle Jents, Ken-Marti Vaher, Mikhail Korb, Peeter Võsa, Margus Hanson Valdo Randpere, and Legal Advisers Linnar Liivamägi and Raini Laide took part in the meeting. Andres Anvelt, Minister of Justice, Kristen Kanarik, Adviser to the Minister, and Sander Põllumäe, Adviser to the Public Law Service of the Ministry of Justice were invited to attend. Kätlin Joala, adviser to the Estonian Centre Party Group, also attended the discussion. In the committee, my colleague Mikhail Korb presented the draft and held a debate. The Minister of Justice announced that the Government of the Republic would not support this draft, as there are several shortcomings. The most important of these is that the new wording of § 55 (5) of the Law Enforcement Act, which was proposed as the only amendment to the draft law, is neither sufficient nor appropriate to achieve the objective pursued. If we now look at the position of the Government of the Republic, which was presented to the Committee on Legal Affairs, it mentions a number of shortcomings, such as the fact that the draft does not describe in any way the possible disruptive effects of alcohol consumption. It was also noted that the draft gives the municipality absolute power to determine the permissible cases of alcohol consumption and, as such, it certainly does not fulfil its purpose. Following the debate, the Commission adopted procedural decisions. First, it was proposed that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on 13 November. The decision was consensual. It was also decided to propose the rejection of draft 717 at first reading (with 4 Commission members, 3 against and no abstentions), to appoint Neeme Suur as rapporteur and, if the first reading is closed, to set the deadline for amendments to 27 November 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U78	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U79	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, In the old days, when there were drafts with the same content from different initiators, they were merged. In this composition of the Riigikogu, I do not remember that this has been done for once. Today is such an interesting day that at first we were talking about civil society and, as always, about civil solidarity, etc., but we are ending with one draft being expelled only because it is from the opposition. Did not the Commission at all mention the possibility of merging two drafts?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U80	Thank you. This merger proposal really went through from the Commission. Thank you for reminding me! I didn't mention it in my report, the criticism is correct. The proposal went through and was jointly found to be possible when both drafts go through first reading. If one of them does not pass the first reading, it is not possible to merge. Secondly, as far as I understand the principle of merging drafts, the drafts will be merged if they add some added value to each other. Today, in the same area, the Government of the Republic has initiated a much more comprehensive draft, which passed the first reading yesterday. So, in summary, the Commission did not support the idea of merging the draft. In fact, the Commission did not take a direct position on the merger. Just when there was a vote, whether to finish the first reading or to reject the draft, then, as I said, there were 4 people in favour of the rejection, against 3.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U81	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U82	Thank you, Madam President. I have a very specific question. When you gave the speech, you said such a sentence that our bill wanted to give the council full authority to make decisions. Do you really think that in this small civil society, represented by councils from all over Estonia, someone supports drunkenness and aims to give the people permission to drink wherever they want? In my opinion, it was the Government of the Republic in its own time, and we tried to resist it both in Tallinn and in Narva and other cities. Was that a serious argument in the Commission? Such a comment is offensive to the councils.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U83	Thank you. No, it is not an insult, and I hope that the authorities will not take it offensive. Every time the design of alcohol policy has been discussed, it has been discussed how inclusive alcohol policy is, how similar it is in Estonian municipalities and to what extent local governments could or should impose some specific conditions. These people, including myself, who often speak of the right to self-determination of local governments, are trying to make it clear that local governments could be more empowered to change the conditions affecting public order in their territory. At the same time, for example, the representatives of the law enforcement authorities confirm that the fewer differences, the better. Bill 717 states that alcoholic beverages may be consumed in the case provided for in the legislation of the local government council. After all, this is a definition that gives the municipality full authority to decide. This question arose in the Commission; I asked it myself: would this regulation be case-by-case, or would it be absolute? And can the permit provided for by the legislation of the local government council be not only case-by-case but also territorial? The initiators' representative thought that a case-by-case permit was intended, but according to the draft text, it is still a full mandate. If we look at the competing draft 752, it contains a little more precise terms and conditions. It has also been said in which cases the local authority may allow alcohol consumption and when it certainly must not do so. In this sense, there is a bit more stringent regulation in Bill 752.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U84	Thank you very much. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U85	Thank you. I also have a question of merging the drafts. Drafts with similar content are normally merged. You also mentioned that there must be some added value between the drafts. However, the opposition bill, if anything has been added to it, is not usually combined with the second draft. But why did the Social Democrats go along with it so much that they could drink anywhere, even on the grass and for months? Your representative, the Minister of Justice, approved it. Where did that stand come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U86	First of all, the Social Democrats didn't go along with it. When the law on law enforcement was passed, the Social Democrats were the only ones who did not vote for it. This draft was not voted in favour of the Socialists, but from the other parliamentary parties that took decisions. The same was true when amendments to the Law on Law Enforcement were adopted. I can't explain the Minister's words exactly, of course, but I have an idea what he meant. It is likely to attach importance to the principle of legal certainty. The law has been passed, it has been in implementation for four years, implementing acts have finally been adopted and the legal restriction will apply. And then all of a sudden it gets an extremely strong negative public response. It is likely that the Minister tried to build on the principle of legal certainty and perhaps he was also looking for ways to improve the situation, not with a legislative amendment, but at the level of implementation. But as it turns out, it didn't work out, and that's how the Ministry came up with its proposal to amend the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U87	Thank you. Please, Jüri Morozov!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U88	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! Although the substance of the merger was not discussed in the committee, I am still asking whether, in your opinion, the draft in this wording, as the Centre Party has proposed, can at all be combined with the other draft under discussion. And would that make it any better?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U89	Yes, we basically have two parallel documents on the table, but probably in the wording that the Centre Party proposes in its draft, it is not directly usable. When we speak in the working language of the Commission, the draft of the Centre Party is taken into account in substance. Therefore, although it cannot be applied formally, I do believe that the Centre Party should not be very sad or angry. The government's draft is their idea and initiative, but it's a little changed. In it, restrictions on alcohol consumption and possible tolerance are much more precisely written down. I believe that the draft initiated by the government is good and, by adopting it, the objectives of the Centre Party can also be implemented.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U90	Please, Valdo Randpere!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U91	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Just for the sake of memory update and verbatim: maybe you can remind us how the Centre Party voted when the draft law on law enforcement was here in spring 2011 before the current Riigikogu came together in reading?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U92	According to my memory, there was 1 vote against the Centre Party, and the rest of us who were in the hall voted in favour. But it has to be checked. I admit that my memory is not so good that I would dare to confirm this result, but it was clear that the three parties in the Chamber supported the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U93	Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U94	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I would like to answer the question of my good colleague Jüri Morozov as to whether it would be technically possible to merge these two drafts. It can be said in favour of a joke that, once the Reform Party and the Socialist Coalition were established, I am absolutely sure that it will be possible to unite everything in Parliament. My question, however, concerns the right to self-determination of the local government, which has so far been very much spoken and advocated by the Social Democrats. The two ministers of your party, Mr Helmen Kütt as Minister for Social Protection and Mr Andres Anvelt, Minister of Justice, called representatives of local governments at the Ministry of Social Affairs some time ago. There was a clear message from the local authorities that they were fit for the law that was in force before 1 July, according to which the municipalities had the right to decide where and where alcohol should not be consumed. Why do social democrats no longer listen to local governments? This is what the local authorities called for.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U95	Thank you. They're still listening! Social Democrats really listen to local governments. As I explained, the question here is whether each local government sets its own rules and conditions or whether we have a common principle across Estonia. If the common principle across Estonia is that you must not drink in public, but the local government may allow it under certain conditions, then your draft states that the local government can in any case allow it. The government bill states that it must not allow it, for example, on the territory of the health care provider, the care establishment and the construction, and that there are such places as kindergartens, primary schools and comprehensive schools during education and training activities. So there are certain rules that apply to local governments across Estonia when they take their promising decisions. I do not think that this wording is in any way harassing local authorities; it simply gives a certain added value to the common regime in force in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U96	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U97	Thank you, manager. In my opinion, it is not really important which bill will stop drinking in public. But it's just the first reading. Why would the first reading stop? After all, it is possible to make the necessary changes to this draft, and we will have a law that meets all our ideas. Why would I reject it? What's the purpose? Is it important who started the bill? The goal is to stop drinking.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U98	Indeed, the goal is to stop drinking. When the Commission decided to propose the rejection of the draft at first reading, I think one of the weight languages was the position of the Government of the Republic, which proved quite well that the draft did not fulfil its purpose.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U99	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Neeme the Great! We're opening negotiations. Please, on behalf of the Group of the Central Party of Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U100	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, What I'm saying right now, I'm basically telling the Snots. You see, I tend to become this annoying type of person all the time I remember the composition of the IX and X Riigikogu, especially IX. I belonged there, you didn't. You can ask Nestor, of course. Combining the pre-claims was a very important element of political culture. I never had a problem with either the Patriotic Union or the Reform Party. I submitted over 50 drafts on my behalf, not on behalf of the Central Party Group, but on my behalf, and 14 of them became the law. About half of them were those that were merged in parallel with the government's drafts. Such a merger was seen as a very important means of helping the opposition and the coalition to maintain a certain degree of contact. The policy is precisely an area of work in which a well must not be spit. You always have to consider the possibility that these are the people you might be in the coalition with after a while. And there's no point in ruining personal relationships unless there's absolutely a hundred percent need. That's what we're talking about right now. You're saying that councils can decide total maladministration, etc. Look, I can't imagine a council that's going to do something against its own people, promoting drunkenness, for example. Looking at this list that's in the government bill, I'm not convinced it's 100% justified. Imagine a settlement where there's only one kindergarten or only one school in local authority. I know such settlements. For example, if a respected teacher dies and there is a need to arrange for him to be sent away, then there is no alternative but to organise it at school. The law is the law, but you must understand in a purely human way that sometimes there are situations where respect is needed both for a dead person and for his family. And that's when it comes to laying the table in the only place where it can be done, maybe in this very school building. But on a day like this, how do you get no shots of vodka? But the law you're proposing is to take a coffin and take it somewhere close to town. Do what you want! I'm not saying I'm 100% serious right now, but what I'm saying is that in this bill, there's something to talk about calmly, intelligently, not driving in on anyone. I have understood one thing in the last 15 years: political practice, tradition is that once you step past it, it will no longer be possible to restore it. Right now we are offering you possible cooperation, possible normal and simple cooperation in this Chamber. Why do you have to stab him in the stomach and tell him to go? It doesn't make any sense. We are still of the opinion that these two drafts are going in parallel and that it would be much better for you to support the further processing of our draft now and to agree to merging the two drafts. At the same time, I understand that this is impossible. There was another custom that was very common in the IX Riigikogu: the chairman or rapporteur asked for a break, invited his people to the corner of the hall, they consulted and took a decision. Have you seen such a thing in this Riigikogu? It used to be a tradition that was held up.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-13_U101	Thank you. Any more calls? No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject draft 717 at first reading. We have to vote on this. Let's get ready for the vote! Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting against the draft proposal of the commission 717 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 37 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 21 against and no abstentions. The draft has been rejected and will fall out of the procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda for today's sitting has been exhausted. The sitting is adjourned. I would like to remind everyone that today at 13:00 a National Male Choir, a RAM concert, will begin in the White Hall. The concert celebrates the 70th birthday of the choir. Everyone is welcome! Closure of the sitting at 12.38 p.m.
