ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-11_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the session of the eighth working week of the 8th session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-11_U2	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, The work here in the Riigikogu still offers surprises and, on one basis, I am handing over today the draft amendment to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. It is directly motivated by yesterday's vote in the Riigikogu's Finance Committee, where my amendment, which was covered by the money allocated to political parties from the state budget, was rejected with a votes ratio of 0 to 0. As we know, according to the Rules of Procedure, we have a relatively reasonable rule of where it came from, whether Mr Tiit Toomsalu's perfect activities here more than ten years ago or from night sittings, so that the proposals that receive the minimum support in the Commission will not be voted on in the Chamber. I then also opened a commentary on the Home and Working Procedures Act, which sets out the very sensible principle of procedural economy: 'Not to be burdened by the votes in plenary on amendments which received only the minimum support of the Steering Committee and which therefore practically lack the prospect of obtaining the support of the House. ' Everything is right, only it certainly cannot apply to the votes that end with a score of 0: 0 or 1: 1 or 1: 2. This suspension in the Committee on Monetary Affairs was quite ugly to look at yesterday, which is why, in the interests of future generations, this House should come to the aid of this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-11_U3	Thank you. Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-11_U4	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. In yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, we were struck by other surprises. As a result, on behalf of the Group of the Prosamaa and Res Publica Union, the Riigikogu is discussing an inquiry with Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. We had read the press release published by the Ministry of Finance on 4 November, but yesterday at the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, we were surprised that the European Commission forecast the structural deficit in the Estonian government budget to be 0.8% of gross domestic product this year and 0.7% of gross domestic product in the following two years. The government has so far argued the opposite, saying that the draft budget for 2015 has been designed with a structural surplus of 0.8% of gross domestic product. The difference between these two opinions is about EUR 300 million, I emphasise: about EUR 300 million. According to § 6 (1) of the State Budget Act, the state budget must be drawn up in such a way that the structural balance of the general government is in balance or in surplus. Unfortunately, on the basis of the European Commission's position, we have to admit today that the proposed draft state budget law for 2015 is contrary to the current law. The Commission meeting did not understand why there is such a large difference between the government's and the European Commission's forecasts. The Fatherland and Res Publica Association have constantly pointed out that the draft state budget for next year is bluffed and unscathed. The European Commission has now confirmed this. Consequently, we have three questions for the Prime Minister and we are counting on them to provide substantive answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-11_U5	Thank you. There are no further drafts or inquiries to be submitted. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted a draft. The Management Board decides to accept this procedure in accordance with the Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act. I have also adopted one inquiry, and if it complies with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu will immediately forward it to the addressee. Now, ladies and gentlemen, please do the presence check! 82 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present and no 19.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-11_U6	Let's get to the agenda. On today's first item on the agenda, which is Opinion No 30 of the Chancellor of Justice, the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is presented by Mr Väino Linde, Member of the Commission, and by Mr Aare Heinvee, Member of the Committee on Social Affairs. I will present the procedure for processing the Chancellor of Justice's proposal. First, the Chancellor of Justice, Indrek Teder, gives a presentation for up to 20 minutes, then a presentation by the member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Väino Linde, for up to 20 minutes, and then a presentation by Aare Heinvee, member of the Social Affairs Committee, for up to 20 minutes. Each member of the Riigikogu may ask each of the rapporteurs one oral question, then there are negotiations and then the proposal goes to the vote. Let's begin with the Chancellor of Justice's proposal No 30 to bring Article 5 (2) (5) of the Health Insurance Act into line with the Constitution. I'm asking for a report from Chancellor of Justice of the Chair, Indrek Teder!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-11_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, a little bit about the legal background of the problem. Persons working in different forms receive health insurance on different legal bases. In the case of a person earning income under a debt contract, this is the basis of § 5 (2) (5) of the Health Insurance Act. This provision specifies the conditions to be met by a person in a debt-law contract in order to obtain health insurance cover. One such condition is the payment of social security contributions. Contracting authorities are required to pay the state a monthly social tax on a person, at least in the amount of the so-called minimum social tax liability. This year, the minimum social tax obligation is 105 euros and 60 cents, or 106 euros, rounded up. The second condition is that these EUR 106 would be paid by one of its subscribers, for example, for the person working under employment contracts. This means that if a person is working under a contract of employment and is executing orders for several customers who all pay EUR 106 for him or her, he or she will not be covered by health insurance. This means that even though the tax has been paid for a person to the extent required, he or she will not receive insurance cover. This is simply because the Health Insurance Act does not allow the sum of the social contributions paid for a person. Who, then, will be affected by this problem? This applies in particular to people who do not work under a contract of employment or engage in entrepreneurship. These people are not self-employed. They live by making small orders every month for several subscribers. The fee received from any contracting authority is not so high that the social tax payable on it is EUR 106. There are not many such people in Estonia; according to the Estonian Tax and Customs Board, there are 63 of them. Why is there a contradiction with the Constitution? The fact that social contributions paid by different subscribers on behalf of a person are not added leads to different treatment for people. In contrast, persons working under debt law will be treated depending on how many subscribers pay the so-called "minimum social tax obligations', i.e. whether EUR 106 is paid by one or more subscribers. Given that, in other respects, the situation of these people is the same, the question arises as to whether different treatment is justified. After analysing the Health Insurance Act, I found that this was not in accordance with § 12 of the Constitution. I'll explain. The consequences of not providing people with health insurance can be serious for both the person and the country. A person can develop serious diseases that he cannot cure at his own expense. Later, the state can therefore assume the responsibility of caring for the person for the rest of his life. It's pretty expensive. In addition, the state will lose the tax revenue it would receive if the person were healthy and economically active. Ultimately, the desired savings may not actually result in savings. It is true that if the law would allow the sum of the amounts of social tax paid for a person, it would mean a cost of resources for the state. This cost, however, is not unreasonable. The summation of social tax does not require a high cost of resources or a long period of preparation from the Tax and Customs Board. It is only necessary to agree on the form in which the Tax and Customs Board transmits the data to the Estonian Health Insurance Fund. However, the prerequisite for this is that the law allows the sum of social tax amounts. For these reasons, I propose that you bring the Health Insurance Act into line with the Constitution. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-11_U8	Thank you very much. Any questions for the Chancellor of Justice? Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-11_U9	Thank you. Is there a need to amend the Social Tax Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-11_U10	At the moment, I proposed a standard of health insurance cover, i.e. only this standard needs to be changed, not the other one.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-11_U11	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-11_U12	Thank you, Madam President. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! How many people could be estimated to be affected by this?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-11_U13	It is indirectly affecting around 300 people.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-11_U14	Thank you. Please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-11_U15	Does this figure mean that there are so many people for whom different companies actually pay a health insurance fund, or social tax, but have not received health insurance?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-11_U16	Yeah, that's the problem with social security contributions, but no health insurance.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-11_U17	Please, Tõnis Kõiv!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-11_U18	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, Chancellor! First of all, thank you for bringing such a proposal into this Chamber. It may seem that individuals whose rights have been violated in this way are relatively few, but the problem is therefore no less important. This proposal will help us improve this system. You referred to the fact that if a person is paid for a number of social contributions, it will not be aggregated. But could there be a possibility that if there is something missing from the minimum amount, the person can pay more so that the minimum amount can be filled?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-11_U19	Thank you very much, Chancellor. No further questions. Now I ask for a presentation by Väino Linde, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-11_U20	In fact, it is stipulated that there must be a minimum, not less than that. It's important. And if it's possible to sum up, that would make sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-11_U21	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor, Chancellor! The consensual opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is that the proposal that has just been tabled by the Chancellor of Justice is justified. This, in itself, does not involve a very large group of individuals. This is precisely the case for those who earn income under the debt law contract and receive a social tax of less than EUR 106 from one of the contractual partners. We also do not consider it right to remain that way in the future. This is not equal treatment for persons in an equal position and is contrary to our constitution. After all, § 12 of the Constitution says that everyone is equal before the law. We examined this matter more closely at the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs yesterday. At the beginning of the sitting, the Chancellor of Justice explained the content of his proposal, the problem that Paragraph 5 (2) (5) of the Health Insurance Act provides a number of preconditions which a person who earns income under a debt contract, such as a contract of employment, who is not a self-employed person, must fulfil in order to be covered by health insurance. The problem has arisen with one of the assumptions that a person working under this contract will receive health insurance only if at least one subscriber pays a monthly social security contribution of at least EUR 106 per month for him or her. According to the Tax and Customs Board, in such cases they shall be technically able to identify the persons for whom social tax is paid and the amounts paid by the different parties in separate parts. Ladies and gentlemen Rait Maruste and Jaak Aaviksoo expressed their views on this proposal. As I said, we ultimately found it useful to support the Chancellor of Justice's proposal. The committee discussed a little more how the Chancellor of Justice's proposal reached the Riigikogu and when it reached the agenda of the meeting of the Constitutional Committee and, today, the grand hall of the Riigikogu. We found the current practice certainly correct. While the legislative text says that the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice must be taken to the Grand Chamber of the Riigikogu as soon as possible, it is also necessary to take account of the fact that, in the proposal being discussed, simply saying perhaps even through a digestible committee, it is then the Committee on Constitutional Affairs or any other relevant committee, there would be sufficient time to examine the proposal and, if necessary, to hold more than one hearing on this matter. Therefore, there must be a sufficient period of time. We agreed that, in this case, today's date might be quite right for discussion. For our part, ladies and gentlemen, we can propose to you that we support the position of the Chancellor of Justice. The decision to make such a proposal was consensual, there was no disagreement between the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs who represented the various political groups. If someone asks what happens next, if the Riigikogu supports this proposal of the Chancellor of Justice, which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs asks you to do, the Chairman of the Riigikogu will instruct the Social Affairs Committee to initiate a draft to bring the Health Insurance Act into line with our constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-11_U22	Thank you very much. Paul-Eerik Rummo has a question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-11_U23	Thank you. This situation is really stupid and unfair, man has been working, taxes have been collected at the required rate, but there is still no security. Just in the interest of curiosity, if this matter is settled fairly now, will those who do not have insurance under the current law, who do not have a card from the Health Insurance Fund, subsequently have something more senior to those cases where they have had to improve their poor health at their own expense.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-11_U24	Thank you for your question. No, it doesn't.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-11_U25	Jaanus Tamkivi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-11_U26	Thank you, manager. Honourable penguin! Did you have a discussion in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, or do you know how many people in the Republic of Estonia could be affected by this concern, which we are seriously discussing here?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-11_U27	Thank you. This question concerns a relatively small number of individuals. When the predecessor, the honourable Chancellor of Justice, said that the number of these persons is within 300, yesterday, when we discussed the matter in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we were told that there were probably even fewer such persons, that those who are actually exposed to this problem could be less than 100.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-11_U28	Thank you. It's been great.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-11_U29	Any more questions? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Väino Linde!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-11_U30	Yes, it was. Next, please waitress Aare Heinvee, member of the Social Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-11_U31	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Chancellor of Justice, Indrek Teder! Ladies and gentlemen, On 27 October 2014, the Social Affairs Committee discussed the proposal No 30 to the Riigikogu entitled "Ravikindlustlustusa rahvusvaheline rahvusvaheline rahvustus' at its meeting on 4 November. The meeting was attended by Chancellor of Justice Indrek Teder, representatives of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Tax and Customs Board. There was a substantive debate on the proposal. As in this House today, the Chancellor of Justice gave a very comprehensive overview of his proposal to bring Article 5 (2) (5) of the Health Insurance Act into line with the Constitution, as the current regime deprives some people of sickness insurance. I am not going to refer this to you here, but I repeat the principle that the minimum social tax requirement for health insurance should also be met when it comes to the amount of social tax paid by several small-scale subscribers, not just the social tax paid by one large customer. According to the Estonian Tax and Customs Board, there are more than 60 people earning a living under debt-law contracts on a continuous basis, with about 360 additional people on an occasional basis. In their case, it's the only income. The representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs confirmed that the Ministry of Social Affairs has already taken account of the letter of formal notice of the Chancellor of Justice, draft amendments to the Health Insurance Act are being drawn up, and the resolution of the matter is also on the agenda of the Government of the Republic. The debate also stated that, although the proposal concerns the acquisition of health insurance for persons earning benefits under a debt-law contract, the problem of persons working under debt-law contracts and employment contracts as a whole should be resolved in the future in order to reduce the total income generated by the calculation of health insurance. It remained the view that the technical failure of the system should not justify unequal treatment of people in an innovative e-state to encourage small businesses. The Committee on Social Affairs decided by consensus to support the Chancellor of Justice's proposal No 30 entitled entitled 'Ravikindlustage insurance cover for a person earning income under a debt contract'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-11_U32	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Aare Heinvee. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. We must vote on the Chancellor of Justice's proposal. Let's get ready for the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting to bring the Chancellor of Justice's proposal No 30 into line with the Constitution in Article 5 (2) (5) of the Health Insurance Act. Please take a stand and vote. 73 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The Chancellor of Justice's proposal has been supported. As the Riigikogu supported the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice, pursuant to § 152 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, I hereby instruct the Social Affairs Committee to initiate a draft to bring § 5 (2) (5) of the Health Insurance Act into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. Our first item on the agenda is exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-11_U33	We're going to the second item. This is the second reading of the draft Act 711 on the ratification of the Kuala Lumpuri Supplementary Protocol on Liability and Damage Compensation of Cartagena, initiated by the Government of the Republic. For a presentation, please address the Chair of the Environment Committee, Rainer Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-11_U34	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen,
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-11_U35	I'm sorry for a second. Dear Riigikogu, let's listen to the waitress! Please, Rainer Vakra, let's continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-11_U36	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the second item on the agenda, the draft Act on the ratification of the Kuala Lumpur Supplementary Protocol on Liability and Damage Compensation in Cartagena. The draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic. On 8 September 2014, the first reading was closed on 8 October 2014 and the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 5.15 p.m. on 22 October 2014. No amendments to the draft were received. The Committee on the Environment decided to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 12 November and also to propose that the draft be put to the final vote. I would ask you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-11_U37	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Do you want to open negotiations? No requests, no amendments were received. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote on 711. Let's get ready for the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote to the final vote on draft Act 711 on Ratification of the Additional Protocol to the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety, initiated by the Government of the Republic, on Liability and Damage Compensation of Nagoya. Please take a stand and vote. There were 64 members of the Riigikogu, no one opposed, one abstention. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-11_U38	Let's go to the third item. This is the second reading of the draft law amending the flag law and ship registers law, land register law and matrimonial property register law initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask for a presentation of the chair of Vice-Chairman Marko Pomerants of the Committee on Legal Affairs!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-11_U39	Good afternoon. Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, This is an extraordinary case. The government has made such a good draft that no amendments were received at second reading, and therefore we decided unanimously on Tuesday 4 November 2014 that the second reading of the draft should be terminated. We are about to decide that. And when the second reading is completed, it is proposed to send this bill. a by 20 November for third reading and adoption as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-11_U40	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? Please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-11_U41	Hello, Marko! Good manager! I have a question here. When I read Paragraph 1 (4), it is supplemented by Paragraph 27 (11): 'The name of the place where the port is located shall be indicated as the home port of the ship. ' And if I read the following amendment, the amendment to § 27 (2), it says: 'If the ship carrying the Estonian flag does not have a home port in Estonia, then the home port of this ship is considered Tallinn. ' Am I right to understand that this law decides that Tallinn is now a settlement?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-11_U42	Thanks! Tallinn is indisputably a settlement too.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-11_U43	Thanks a lot, I got it! No further questions. Thank you, Marko Pomerants! Do you want to open negotiations? No negotiations are recommended, no amendments have been received. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 708. Second reading is complete. Our agenda today has been exhausted. I wish everyone a beautiful day, thank you very much to all present. See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 10.36 a.m.
