ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U1	Dear Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Government of the Republic! Let's start the briefing. First, we'll do a presence check. Currently 42 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present. The members of the government who participate in Question Time are Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, Minister of Culture Urve Tiidus and Minister of Agriculture Ivari Padar. I think you do not mind if I remind you that there is one minute to ask the question and two minutes to reply. Yesterday, six members of the Riigikogu expressed their wish to ask questions in Question Time today. This means that I will give those who have not registered as questioners the opportunity to ask two specific questions on each subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U2	The first questioner is Sven Sester. The question is for Prime Minister Taavi Clothes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U3	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! My business is dealing with people. Income plays an important role in income. I will focus on that in my question. Let us look at the recommendations made by the European Commission. The Commission has said that Estonia should increase measures for low-paid workers and develop incentives. The OECD has been even more precise and said that we should literally reduce the workload of low-paid people in Estonia. The population of the IRL came up with a proposal to improve the situation of low-wage earners in Estonia some time ago. It was mainly intended to exclude income tax on salaries below EUR 500 and up to EUR 846...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U4	Time! Please ask a question, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U5	Yeah. I have a question for you, good Prime Minister. What do you think of these proposals? Is this direction that measures should be taken to improve the situation of low-paid people correct and should we go on with this?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U6	Thank you. If you mean the Government of the Republic's plan to increase the income tax-free minimum every year, then yes, that is, in my opinion, the right direction. However, if you asked Tõnis Palts about the thought you had made a few months ago, which has now suddenly become the great election song of the IRL, that there should be a step-by-step tax on income in Estonia with several hundred steps I am not even going to talk about this basic thing, that such a major change should also have a clear source of cover, which obviously does not exist at the moment. But I will tell you why I find this unrealistic and, in many ways, unfair. It is quite clear that a sustainable income grower in every society can only and only have economic growth. With the change you have proposed, however, we would give a very clear signal that low-paid jobs are expected in the Estonian economy in the future. I do not think this is the right signal, I think we need to give the exact opposite signal. Investments in Estonia could be made by companies who are ready to create jobs that pay a decent salary for the work of Estonian people. That's why your idea is wrong as a signal. If there is more jobs with less added value and not more added value, the economy cannot grow either.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U7	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U8	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! I fully agree with you that growth is one of our priorities. But go to some of the most common groceries and you'll see people with a salary of 500 euros or even less. We often have situations where people not only come out with pay but also receive state subsidies. I want to know from you what measures the government is taking. You said that the tax-free minimum should increase in the near future. Unfortunately, our financial situation is such that, in the coming years, this minimum will be increased by EUR 10 and people will actually receive EUR 2. That applies to everyone. Do you still not think that we should clearly focus on the low-paid people who are in a situation where the end does not come to an end?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U9	Thank you. There is a huge difference between government plans and decisions and your slogan: the government has a source of cover and its decisions can be implemented. I think it's a very important difference. As a principle, of course, I think it is right to support people with lower incomes in particular. The question is, do we, like you, have to choose an unfeasible idea without even offering it a source of cover? The question is whether we need to introduce progressive income tax in Estonia, with which I think you have taken up surprisingly, and do so in such a difficult way that it has several hundred tax levels. Even the Centre Party, which has been trying to explain to us for decades that progressive income tax is a very good plan, has not been able to come up with anything as complex as the IRL has now made public. Several hundred levels of taxation! In my opinion, this is not the most appropriate solution to a problem that deserves very serious attention and adequate solutions. What are the steps of the government? During this year, we have already taken decisions that will increase the tax-free minimum. They will also increase this in the coming years. They have a source of cover, and they become a reality. We have decided to reduce income tax and unemployment insurance contributions, and we have also confirmed the decision to increase the minimum wage. If you want to know what plans could be for the next few years, I think that the reduction in labour taxes must continue, I mean both social tax and income tax, and there must certainly continue to be an increase in the tax-free minimum. But it must not be done in such a way that we make a slogan and wonder whether it is viable or not. We need to think through all our steps in a balanced way. Certainly, the future should not bring us as complicated graduated income tax as you have offered.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U10	Sven Sester, the last question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U11	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! Two important points came out of your response: progressive income tax and relative appreciation of the proposal. I certainly will not be able to debate you at length and thoroughly in a minute. I will say quickly, however, that we have not provided for an additional increase in the rate of income tax for people earning a higher salary. Rather, we now see that those people with lower wages have a higher tax-free minimum so that they can get more money. Now I come to the financial cover. We have offered, as a cover, that an increase in the tax-free minimum should be avoided in the coming years. That could be almost half the amount of the cover. In your opinion, would it not be right if we did not increase the minimum income tax free of EUR 10 for all people in the coming years, but rather targeted the measures for the benefit of the low-wage earners? We could then increase the tax-free minimum more.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U12	Time's long gone!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U13	Thank you. Increasing the tax-free minimum as a source of cover in order to increase the tax-free minimum even more than that sounds pretty smart. I think it's obviously inadequate. I am pleased that you are prepared to debate with the Reform Party on the subject of progressive income tax. So far, we have been debating progressive income tax issues with the Centre Party, including the Social Democrats. It is a somewhat unpleasant surprise to me that we now have to debate in a situation where the IRL has also taken the side of pro-stage income tax, even though you have so far taken the exact opposite view. That position was much closer to my heart. You have just said that you do not support the creation of further higher levels, or at least you do not have this plan. At the same time, when you look at the first signals from your party on this subject, at least Juhan Parts said who was speaking at that moment, if I remember correctly, that there should be no reduction in income tax and that either increases in labour taxes or consumption taxes should be considered. Let's think about what labour taxes or consumption taxes are. They are either income tax or VAT. You have to understand what these choices are. I wouldn't like that kind of change. I'm just saying to make sure you understand what magnitude you're talking about. According to the calculations made by the Ministry of Finance, this change would have an impact of EUR 250 million per year. To say it's such a small thing that you don't even have to offer it a source of cover is irresponsible in my opinion. I really liked it when you were very demanding against our government alliance, so that we could look for sources of cover. We showed you everything with the precision of EUR 100000. Now if you come up with a 250 million euros cost, be men and show us the sources of cover, this plan is a little bit more credible.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U14	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U15	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Prime Minister! The fact that, in 23 years after the restoration of our country, we are discussing in Parliament the poor economic situation of the country, poverty, poverty and the poverty of the economy, shows that your party's over-liberal better policy has not borne fruit. This is where I wonder why you feel so painful about progressive income tax. It's like you got stung by a bee when you heard that word. Explain why progressive income tax is bad.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U16	Thank you. This can still be explained several times over the next few months. For me, progressive income tax is neither new nor painful. It was a new and perhaps a little painful thing for me that the IRL has become the biggest advocate of progressive income tax. This is a really bad surprise for me. But I certainly remember that progressive income tax debates have been held for at least 15 years. It's okay if we keep this up. We all know that progressive income tax inhibits economic growth. We all know that progressive income tax reduces people's motivation to earn more and discourages higher-paid jobs. That's definitely a problem. Your assessment that the Estonian economy has gone very badly offends most Estonians, in my opinion. You can look at the international comparison. You will not find many countries that would have done better in the last two decades. It is very difficult to find a country throughout Europe that would have done better in the last 20 years than in Estonia. There is very little to do by the government that I manage. Our government has been working for six months, even less, but there is reason to express gratitude to previous governments, because very good work has been done. Estonia's economic policy has been very good, and in 20 years it has been possible to make the right decisions. Estonia has developed faster and much better than many other countries, it could be said that faster than almost all other European countries. Is that enough, and can we rest on our laurels? Absolutely not. The government that I manage will certainly continue to pursue a policy that promotes economic growth. As I said, economic growth is the only sustainable source for people's incomes to grow, whether it be wages, pensions or, for example, social benefits.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U17	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U18	Thank you. Prime Minister! I find it relatively difficult to find a country without progressive income tax. These are some of the former countries of socialism and Russia. Even in America, there's progressive income tax. But I am asking about a completely different subject, about pensioners, who are one of the poorest groups of people, especially pensioners living alone. Those who have earned a very small salary during their lives After all, they have often had to work for several years to receive a pension year, a pension coefficient of 1.0. Why are you not in favour of a system whereby one year of work should correspond to one pension year so that these people do not have to work for several years to get a letter for that year? Wage injustice is now also being passed on to pensions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U19	Thank you. You are right, there are quite a few countries in the European Union that have used progressive income tax. But if you can tell me even one country in the European Union whose economy has grown faster than we have since 1994, when Estonia started to have a uniform income tax, under the conditions of this graduated income tax, I look forward to this example. I don't know that example. That's one. Secondly, pension increases are in any case a priority. We have usually reached the conclusion in the budget negotiations that pensions must also be exempt from income tax in the coming years, even though pensions have increased faster than the tax-free minimum. This has always had to be done in a one-off decision. This year, I am pleased to say that we decided already in the summer that the average pension will also be exempt from income tax in the following year. As regards the more fundamental changes to the pension system, of course we are ready to discuss them too, but I think that both you and I understand in the same way that this cannot help the current pensioners. Current pensioners need the state to ensure sustainable pension growth. This can only be guaranteed by policies that promote growth. The change that you have proposed, so that we take into account retirement in a different way in the future, would only concern relatively young people who are still collecting retirement. It doesn't help the elderly today. Therefore, I would focus first and foremost on how to ensure that people who are currently in retirement have the most dignified old age possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U20	The possibility that two members of the Riigikogu can ask questions on the spot at the beginning of Question Time has been exploited. I apologise to Aivar Sõerd, but I will stop dealing with this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U21	The next questioner is Siret Eagle. The question is for the Minister of Agriculture Ivari Padar. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U22	Good Minister of Agriculture! The swine plague has officially reached Valgamaa and Viljandimaa. The African swine plague is known to be largely spread by wild boars. In this light, much has been said about hunting or not hunting wild boars. Hunting is likely to cause the pigs to move and this, in turn, increases the risk of plague. But the season of the moose is about to begin. What is the position on the start of the hunting season?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U23	Thanks for asking. Today, we have indeed discovered another case of plague among wild boars. It can be seen that the plague is moving northwards from South Estonia, the second case was in Viljandi County. A national disease control committee came together today, which also discussed how to deal with feral pigs. It can be said that, like all over Europe, we have had little and no conflicting information on swine fever. We are now trying to fill this gap in cooperation with four countries. These countries are Poland and the Baltic States. There have also been very opposing views on the behaviour of feral pigs. The current position of the National Control Commission is that hunting should be restricted at least in the zones where infected pigs have been detected. There must be no situation in which herds of boars are forced to move. This would be a worse threat now than what could happen if other measures were taken. We know that if Belarus and Latvia have started to reduce intensively the population of wild boars, this artificial activity will only worsen the situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U24	Please, Siret Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U25	Thank you. Areas of infected farms are known to be separated by desomattes. When the African swine plague hits a farm, who will drop these desomattes and where will the funding come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U26	Thank you. In farms, prevention measures have worked through the summer, and farmers have done very well. Preventive measures to the plague have been taken and all kinds of preliminary work has been carried out to prevent infection, with its own costs and letters. It is expected that the plague in the woods has been right for months, but it has not reached the farms. I dare say that thanks to the cooperation between the good farmers and the FVO officials, we have been able to keep the disease away from the production farms. In case the disease reaches the domestic pig population, we have separate regulations on how to compensate the farmer both for the destruction of the animals and for the cost of the measures taken to ensure further biosecurity.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U27	Siret Eagle, last question to be specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U28	Thank you. According to Ago Pärtel, Director General of the Food and Veterinary Office, pigs infected with swine plague are buried as close to pigs as possible. However, Lääne-Virumaa is known for its large karst areas and also has Pandivere Water Reserve. When the plague reaches the hogs of Lääne-Virumaa, in which county are the infected pigs buried in Lääne-Virumaa?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U29	Thank you. The inspectors of the Food and Veterinary Board have visited all Estonian pig farms. Places where destruction of animals should occur in the event of a potential infection have been agreed everywhere. It can happen in very different ways. In smaller farms, it can be done by burning, burying in larger farms. I am sure that the farms in Lääne-Virumaa have also found places where animals will be destroyed in the event of a possible infection, along with inspectors from the Veterinary and Food Board. I am sure that these places have been agreed and have been very clearly considered in terms of environmental impacts.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U30	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U31	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. I was also very concerned about the news this morning that the swine plague has moved from Valgamaa to Tarvastus, Viljandi County. It is only a few decades away from the largest pig farm in Estonia, Exeko, where, as far as I know, nearly 70,000 pigs are growing. Has your ministry or this working group that came together this morning contacted Exeko on this subject? Or have you personally done so? Is there a link between what are the special measures used in Exeko? I say once again that this morning the plague came out only a few decades away from Estonia's largest pig farm.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U32	Personally, I've been in contact with the exeko leaders in the light of this case yesterday. The case of the plague was officially announced today, but the Minister of Agriculture was informed yesterday. The head of the exeko and the management of the Food and Veterinary Office are negotiating how the animal health restrictions can be applied, on the one hand, to ensure animal health safety and, on the other hand, to make it clear that the economic activities of the company can continue. They're looking for a reasonable path. It is very important that on 11 and 12 September the relevant committee will meet in Brussels, which will specify the additional measures to be taken in Estonia for veterinary checks. Businesses are being contacted at the highest level and looking for the best and most flexible way to prevent the spread of disease and to limit economic activity to the minimum possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U33	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U34	Thank you. Dear Minister, I have two questions, but I'm trying to fit them both in one minute. Businesses already have additional costs, as both direct and indirect additional requirements are in place due to the risk of swine fever. Transport costs will also be added. Does the Ministry of Agriculture have an estimate of the costs incurred by operators? Is there any way to compensate them? I am talking about expenditure on preventive measures. Secondly, we know that swine plague does not pass on to humans. But there's still a rumor that those people who've had a lot of piggybacks are gonna get infected. As your minister, I'm sure you can answer. Is that true or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U35	To the second question, does the plague infect people who have been hogs, I can't answer. However, as regards the first half of the question and the state budget, we will first try to find solutions in the state budget by continuing to increase the capacity of veterinary checks, the Food and Veterinary Office and veterinary laboratories. To the point that we need a whole range of additional equipment to ensure that the veterinary laboratory continues to have the ability to detect the disease. These are the things that we can do now with the help of the state budget. This is one of the main priorities of the state budget negotiations alongside the expenditure of the Agricultural Registers and Information Office. As far as compensation for expenditure on preventive measures is concerned, this capacity does not exist in the state budget. We need to anticipate the ability to do this in case we've discovered infected pigs from home, so that compensation can be triggered.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U36	I apologise to Tiit Tammsaare and Viktor Vassiliev, but I will finish working on this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U37	The next questioner is Jaak Aaviksoo. The question is the Minister of Culture, Urve Tiidus. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U38	Thank you, President-in-Office. Madam Minister! The Prime Minister has just said that employees in Estonia are paid a salary worthy of their work. However, I cannot agree with this, at least with regard to people working in the educational, cultural and social spheres. The current low wage is the reason why in the last two years, the wage increase for educators is planned at 12%, which is twice the national average. Good Minister, I would like to ask you about this. In recent years, the average wage increase in Estonia has exceeded 6%, and so the Ministry of Finance has planned in its forecast the following year. With what expectations can cultural workers go to the next year? Will their wage increase in the coming period exceed the average wage increase in the country in order to overcome the pay gap, or will there be no possibility in the state budget to do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U39	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Mr Aaviksoo, thank you for this question. As you know, the state budget negotiations are currently under way. The rise in the pay of cultural workers is definitely one of the priority areas in these negotiations. The same must of course be said about the rise in wages for social, educational and internal security workers. It would be premature to say the final figure now, because the decisions have not yet been taken and the final agreements have not been concluded in the Cabinet. However, it is quite clear that wage increases in these preferred areas also relate to the economic forecast. We all know that. There is a prognosis, but maybe he's not as good as people's expectations. However, the Ministry of Finance has a proposal to allow for higher wage increases in four areas, mainly the so-called soft one. We know that they are culture, education, internal security and social. This is very, very necessary and, fortunately, possible. We stand in every way for the pay of cultural workers to rise. How this is in proportion to the average wage increase is a separate issue. It cannot be forgotten that on the budget negotiating table, the issue of raising the pay of children and young sports trainers or providing them with social guarantees and better pay opportunities. The budget is currently set at EUR 3.5 million. As sport is a cultural field, it will undoubtedly also affect average wages in the cultural field. As you know, the general wage strategy in the field of culture has been formulated in the fundamentals of the cultural policy adopted by the Riigikogu in February until 2020. It says that the minimum remuneration of a highly educated and full-time cultural worker should rise to the average wage level in Estonia by 2020. We also have a coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U40	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Time's up. Jaak Aaviksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U41	Thank you. Good minister! Just as I do, you obviously do not have the confidence today that the wages of cultural workers will not fall in relation to the national average in 2015. Do you support the IRL proposal to increase the income tax-free minimum for low-paid workers in a situation where the average wage for artists and other creative activities is EUR 715? This proposal would also leave up to EUR 69 per month for cultural workers and thus allow for a significant reduction of the pay gap in real income, i.e. more than 10%.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U42	Thank you, too, for this question. As you even know as an experienced politician, all ideas for solving problems are welcome and debates on these issues are necessary. It would be difficult if we were to implement this EUR 500 tax exemption. Where, though, would the missing money come from? I am concerned that this may have the greatest impact on the areas that are preferred in the budget negotiations this year. The issue of the pay of cultural workers would then rise to the agenda, I think, more acutely than it is now. That's my assessment. Of course, we want people to earn more wages, their work to be more effective, so that they can earn more. Then perhaps so much tax exemptions should not be dealt with. But as I said at the beginning, all debates and debates on this subject are welcome in a free democratic society.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U43	Jaak Aaviksoo, last question to be specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U44	Thank you. As far as the sources of cover are concerned, the solution is to choose the party that has these solutions. That's what I can recommend to you. But on the issue of the pay of cultural workers, I ask a more general question. As we know, the current government's trend was to 'denationalise' cultural institutions and turn them into private individuals, which is why it is the private sector that is actually responsible for resolving wage issues. Do you think such a solution is strategically right to involve more private sector funds in the cultural sphere and to achieve wage increases, not through the state budget, but through additional private sector funds?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U45	Once again, thank you for your question. The involvement of private funding in the field of culture is, in my opinion, a very valuable thing in every country. You were talking about the private sector. Did I get it right that you hinted that in the sphere of culture, several former so-called state institutions have been denationalised in Estonia, that is to say, they have been transformed into private legal entities, which mostly means the form of a foundation in our field? If we continue to develop the idea of how much private money will be forced to be involved in order to cope, I will look back at the formation of foundations in the field of culture. This history dates back to 1997 and 1998 and back to the early 2000s. Here are some excellent examples: Estonian Drama Theater, Rakvere Theatre House, Integration and Migration Foundation Our People, known as MISA, Estonian Song and Dance Party Foundation. Yes, the form of a foundation or a legal entity governed by private law has created better opportunities for them to manage it, so-called independently of the Cabinet of the Minister, and by involving competence, knowledge and wisdom in their field in a broader sense and in a community-related way. It has also given them the opportunity to raise private money. It's not something you shouldn't want. If it promotes culture, I think it's a pretty good thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U46	Thank you. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U47	Thank you. Honourable Minister of Culture! The Prime Minister said that we should not give a signal to society, or he does not think it is right, that low-wage earners are taxed at a lower tax burden. This means that we should not support them further with the idea of exemption for people with low wages. The wages of cultural workers are well below the average, i.e. they belong to the low wage group. Do you and the Prime Minister, your party partner, fully agree on this matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U48	Thank you, Mr. Seeder. With less than EUR 500, nobody gets paid in the field of culture, that is what I have to say. There are also salaries in the cultural field, which amount to more than EUR 1000. It is difficult for me to comment on the words of the Prime Minister, because I do not remember this quote, but I have a feeling that he did not quite say so. The average wage is also growing in the cultural field. If I started reading these numbers here, it would go pretty long. I would like to emphasise, once again, that every year, the budget has been negotiated for an increase in the pay of cultural workers. In recent years, if I remember correctly, in 2013 and 2014 it has been up to 5%. We hope that, however, in the budgetary negotiations, we will reach an amount which, given the current economic forecast, clearly shows that priority is given to the cultural sector and to other soft areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U49	I will stop dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U50	The next questioner is Mikhail Korb. The question is for Prime Minister Taavi Clothes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U51	Thank you. Prime Minister! I am pleased that your attitude towards the Estonian economy and companies is very optimistic. To some extent, I share that view. But what has happened is that several people among my acquaintances have been deprived of their homes over the last few years because of not very good economic success, because unfortunately the bank has taken their homes away from them. In this regard, I have a question of how you personally and as Prime Minister are concerned about developing the municipal housing programme. Have such plans been made, and have they been discussed in the government? If your attitude is positive and you start working on it, I want to know the plans and deadlines.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U52	Thank you. First, I will go to the first part of the question. I have spoken to banks who have said that the lion's share of all housing loans that are irretrievably sour from a human perspective or for which it is no longer possible to help people by extending or delaying payment schedules are linked to the fact that people are trapped in a SMS loan. There are a lot of people who have taken a SMS loan out of ten, but maybe even more. This issue needs a much stronger solution than has been the case so far. As a member of the Riigikogu, I raised this topic in the summer of 2007, but then the proposals of a young member of the Riigikogu were not sufficiently understood. Now I'm in the role of Prime Minister. We see no other option than to come up with a basic package that limits the spread of SMS loans and better informs people about these risks. The draft of the Ministry of Justice is ready, the draft of the Ministry of Economic Affairs is almost complete, there is another legal definition to be put in place, and the draft of the Ministry of Finance will also be completed in the near future. It has to be dealt with. With regard to municipal housing programmes or national housing programmes, no matter what they may be called, it would be wrong to say that we are ready for some kind of programme or plan to take a very grand approach to this problem. However, we do have the experience of some local governments that say that this is a very, very expensive solution. There are probably more effective options.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U53	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U54	I would still like to clarify what kind of solution you are talking about, what are more concrete plans and what kind of experience you are planning to use. Home is very important to every person. On Monday, we had the opportunity to discuss the subject of coping. I think you agree with me that home expenses are one of the most important components of human coping. The housing program is designed to help people whose coping is unfortunately not the best. I'd like to know your plans and how many people this program is meant for.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U55	Thank you. Like I said, we don't have a plan for any new national program right now. Such a solution has been tried through municipal programmes, but it has proved to be an exceptionally expensive measure. Take, for example, the largest municipality of Tallinn. Experience shows that the creation of both Lootse and Raadiku's settlement resulted in Tallinn's taxpayer paying over the market price of the region for these buildings and doing so for 30 years. True, these contracts could probably have been done better technically, perhaps there were technical problems, but experience so far has shown that this solution, which costs on average more than EUR 5 000 per family, is very expensive. This does not mean that we should not help families who are in difficulty. I'm sure we do. As has been said, the best help is to prevent these people from getting into difficulties. You referred to these problems relating to housing loans, but there are certainly consequences that can also be dealt with. One concrete effective way to deal with the consequences is, of course, subsistence support, which also includes housing costs. We were talking about the rise of the minimum level of livelihood here yesterday. The decision to raise this limit for families with children has already been taken. Income support also certainly helps to solve people's problems; it is much more effective than building new houses.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U56	Mikhail Korb, last question to be specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U57	Thank you. I understand from your answer that there are no such programs. But how do you comment that yesterday, Urve Palo wrote in his article that he had launched a program to support people in distress to cover housing costs. You could say it's a municipal construction program that we're talking about. How do you comment on your coalition partner's statements?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U58	Thank you. I believe that you will probably have a good opportunity to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure yourself in the near future. He may have ideas on how to solve this problem, but, as I said, this plan has not been discussed at government level. However, under the leadership of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the state is investing huge amounts of money in housing to improve the insulation of housing and increase energy efficiency. This, too, affects people's livelihoods and not little. For example, the money invested in heat insulation and changing heating hubs of the apartment building in Õismäe is earned very quickly and the reduction in heating bills will significantly reduce people's expenses. But, as I said, the plan for us to start building thousands of state apartments, we don't. Before there is such a plan, we should have a very clear idea of how to cover it with money. There is a very warning Tallinn experience. If I remember correctly, there was a 30-year commitment to the treaty. So even if our children are middle-aged, they have to pay these bills. It was as if some of the people's problem was solved, but it was done in a way that prices are much higher than the market price. The problem was dealt with heroically, but it led to a very large and long-term commitment to the city's budget. Didn't go very well.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U59	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U60	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! I see you have completely taken over the euphoric song style of Andrus Ansip. You praise the country and say that, for God's sake, Tallinn is bad, so it is the economic growth that comes from Tallinn. You asked rhetorically whether anyone could name a country where there would have been as powerful economic growth and development as Estonia. But I'm asking you back. Can you name a country other than Estonia, I do not mean Lithuania, Latvia or Bulgaria, where in 2009 there would have been such a major recession, an annual average of over 14%, and in some quarter, perhaps a third, it was over 16%? It was a huge freefall. I would remind you that it was only in 2007 that the economy grew by 10%. Can you name these countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U61	Thank you. You yourself mentioned a number of countries that you forbade me to name. That's a clever move, of course. But this very rapid decline was also followed by a very rapid rise in Estonia, even the fastest rise in Europe at a certain time. This shows that the Estonian economy, being small and very open to external influences, is volatile, is easily accompanied by both negative and positive. But in order to assess the success of the Estonian economy, we need to look at the longer term. I call on you once again to look at these 20 years, since uniform income tax began to apply in Estonia, and to find at least one European country with progressive income tax and whose economy has grown faster than that of Estonia. I'm very interested in the outcome. That's one. Secondly, you accused me of praising the Estonian state. I intend to praise the Estonian state in the future. The Estonian state is the best country and if we are not all a member of the Prime Minister or Parliament of the Republic of Estonia, or simply a citizen, who would do so! I believe in Estonia and see a great deal of good in Estonia. I also call on you to see more good in Estonia and to be proud of your country.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U62	Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U63	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! First of all, apartments have been built a lot because we have forced tenants. But that's not what I want to ask you about. Have you also discussed, from a rental point of view, support for entrepreneurs in building apartments? Quite a lot has been discussed so that entrepreneurs are prepared to build them, but it does not pay off economically and should be supported by the state. Has such a thing been discussed, and what is your position?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U64	Thank you. When we discussed the first question, we talked about an opportunity that would in itself be beautiful if it had a source of cover. Since we know that there is no source of cover, I would not go such a slippery path with my proposals. It is not my custom to put forward plans that are cost-intensive, the cost of which I do not know the source of the cover. You said that the entrepreneur would have an interest in building something, but it is not economically viable. That is why it is worth measuring nine times before planning the cutting to find out whether it is reasonable to undertake this construction. In retrospect, we can say that Tallinn, too, by settling the problems of forced tenants and other people who lived in these houses, could have looked more closely at the market price in one region or another. It would probably have been noticed that the market price was in some cases even half the price paid for by the taxpayer's cup. The taxpayer's money must be read. When we come up with beautiful plans, we always need to say what one or the other plan costs, where the money comes from and what must not be done. We all have a lot of beautiful plans, but we'd still try so that we can give real substance to the beautiful plans by making sure there are sources of cover. This is a much more complicated task.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U65	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U66	The next questioner is Tarmo Tamm. The question is for the Minister of Agriculture Ivari Padar. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U67	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Minister of Agriculture! Our government has so far said that the impact of Russian sanctions on the Estonian economy is marginal. Yesterday, however, the Conjuncture Institute came up with data that we need to find new markets for our agricultural production of EUR 150 million. If they are not found, many companies are likely to be threatened with bankruptcy or production cuts and job losses. Lithuania found two new markets quite quickly: Serbia and Lebanon. What progress has the Estonian Government made here and how far has the Estonian Government reached in helping our farmer?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U68	Thank you. Yes, the Conjuncture Institute presented yesterday an overview of the possible impact of import restrictions on Estonia compared to other Member States. As far as money is concerned, EUR 75 million is money that has previously been traded directly with Russia and more or less in the same way through other Member States of the European Union, particularly Lithuania. In any case, we need to be quiet and smart about how we can survive such a fickle situation and find new markets. This action is now underway and has taken a very long time. I visited the Chinese Minister of Agriculture for the first time 14 years ago. Negotiations are taking place on some markets for a very long time, for example in China, so far. We have now opened up the market for fish in China, but we have not opened up the market for milk, pork or poultry. All these items are being negotiated. We are also negotiating with a number of other Asian and African countries. The Food and Veterinary Office has sent all the basic materials, and we have a high degree of veterinary reliability. The subject of the fish market was raised a few weeks ago, but now Estonian fish markets are opening up even in Africa. It's on. We have no other option; we have to look for alternative options for our production. The way food trade is, if the market gets smaller somewhere, it's gonna come in another place. This place has to be picked up.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U69	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U70	Thank you, manager. Minister of Agriculture! This study revealed an interesting fact, which was known in advance, but it was surprising that the amount was so large. For 71 million euros, raw milk was previously transported from Estonia to Latvia and Lithuania. Is Estonia a developing country? Why was this raw milk given to Latvia and Lithuania? Why has your industry not been developed to add added value to milk and create a job for at least 500 people? Is there even an agricultural policy in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U71	Thank you. It is now established that Estonia is very good at primary agricultural production and produces high-quality raw material at a stable level, but the processing capacity has remained in the way of time. It's true. This so-called round log export is not a solution for us in the food industry and agriculture. Clearly, a new qualitative move is needed throughout the food sector and more on-the-spot processing is needed instead of the export of raw milk. This task must be dealt with quietly. It is important to note that we usually talk about the fact that we do not have the money to solve one thing or another or to make some kind of relief. In order to improve the capacity of the processing industry, the rural development plan has planned quite a large amount of resources. Depends on our wisdom, including the initiative of the Ministry of Agriculture, and on how we will apply it wisely next year. This activity already dates back to the times of my predecessor, Helir-Valdor Seeder, and in his time the rural development plan was put together. The odds are there. Our job is not to make bad decisions when we go into the market economy with public money.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U72	Tarmo Tamm, last question to be specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U73	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. How do you think an Estonian farmer can compete in the open agricultural market of the European Union? After all, we cannot sell goods to the European Union. As we know, our subsidies are significantly lower than the average subsidies in the European Union, while state support is top-up, as far as I know, one of the lowest in the European Union. Does the country have any plans to provide additional support for the farmer?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U74	Thank you. The country has these plans. As regards Estonia's subsidies compared to those of farmers from other European countries, different aspects need to be looked at here. Certainly, alongside the first pillar of direct payments for agriculture, we need to look at our current support per hectare when we have merged the first and second pillars and added support for the rural development plan. It is also necessary to look at the price of inputs, in particular the price of land. Yes, the level of subsidies compared to the other Member States of the European Union is even lower, but I dare say that this gulf is not very large. The state of play is extremely new and unique, as the Palette of Restrictions is very diverse both in countries and in sectors. One clear thing that we very strongly emphasise is the joint action of the European Union. I met my colleagues, agriculture ministers, and also the President of the European Parliament, Martin Schulz, on this issue in Brussels two days last week. There is a need for somewhat more information on how to implement the common measures of the European Union. Yes, the measures provided for in the common agricultural policy will be implemented either way. The buying-in measures will start as they should, there is no question here. We must try to hold our breath so that prices do not go down so that these measures are implemented. We still like the price of 25-cent 26-cent milk much more than the price of 17-cent. So, on the one hand, these are measures and, on the other hand, separate measures are possible. For example, Estonian milk has actually been cheaper for one week; it concerns 25 cents or 26 cents. In order to carry out a final analysis of what measures to take in addition, a short period of time is needed. We're working on it. I've been doing this all morning. Here we must be united with our Baltic, Finnish and Polish colleagues, because we all have similar setbacks.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U75	Thank you, Minister. Time's up. Now one very short question and a very short answer. Tiit Tammsaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When the European Union imposed sanctions on Russia, of course, rightly, then the entire Estonian society felt that, yes, it must be done all together. The whole society was basically in agreement. But when Russia imposed counter-sanctions, some citizens began to say that, no, farmers are guilty of their own problems, they have been very risky in their dealings with Russia. By the way, yesterday on the national broadcast 'Citizens of the Republic', a bank representative expressed the same idea. What do you think? Do farmers alone have to take the risk, or must society be united?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U77	Short answer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U78	Yes, society as a whole must have solidarity. That's a short answer. In these extraordinary situations, our mistakes always come out. One of our mistakes has been that we have had shortcomings in the development of raw materials. That's a fact.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U79	I'm sorry about Lembit Rockwater, but it's 2:00! I'm sorry, too, from Marika Tuus-Laul! There's also Question Time next Wednesday. Today's Question Time is over. Thank you to the ministers.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U80	Honourable Riigikogu! The session of the first working week of the VIIIth plenary session will open on Wednesday. First, you can deliver drafts and inquiries. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U81	Ladies and gentlemen, 11 On behalf of a member of the Central Party Group, I have an inquiry to the Minister of the Interior, Hanno Pevkur, concerning the control of the state border. In the early 1990s, Estonia's border guard started to be re-established. In 1992, the Border Guard School started teaching, with 1704 border guards graduating from 1992-2006. It is worth noting that in 1994 there were 133 officers, 319 junior officers, 588 professional border guards and 675 conscripts in the service of the Estonian Border Guard. In 2007, the Joint Coalition of the Reform Party, IRL and Social Democrats started to unite the Police and Border Guard Board. The merger took place in early 2010. A study was also carried out in the same year on how people working in the structure are satisfied with the creation of a new Common Authority. 86% of the workers at the time did not believe that the structure was formed effectively, and 46% of the managers were dissatisfied with the organisation of work. In 2012, the police professional association submitted a referral to the Minister for the Interior, which highlighted a number of concerns in the management and organisation of the Police and Border Guard Board. Both former and current border guards have stressed that the unification of organisations has led to structural imbalances and, as a result, the border guards are no longer functioning properly. In this regard, and what is to be denied there, we are going to ask the Minister five questions in the case at the border a week ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U82	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U83	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I, on behalf of the Centre Party Group, have an inquiry to the Minister of Agriculture, Ivari Padar. The issue is how the country copes with the spread of African swine fever. As we know, the disease of highly dangerous pigs has officially reached Estonia. If on Monday it was known that the disease was only found in Valgamaa, then now the disease has spread to Viljandimaa as well. At the same time, more than a month ago, the Minister of Agriculture claimed to the public that the swine plague was probably already in Estonia. Nevertheless, the country has not sensed the seriousness of the problem and has not prepared to actually cope with the plague. One of our key issues for the Minister is the following. If it was already known in August that the African swine fever could be in Estonia, why didn't an all-Estonian information campaign be launched that would have provided information to people about the plague and provided guidance on how to behave, for example, when mushrooms find a dead wild boar of the plague in the forest? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U84	If these two inquiries are in accordance with the rules of procedure, they shall be sent to the addressees. Before I check in, I have a message for you, especially your Swiss friends. After the end of today's sitting, the formation of the Estonian-Switzerland parliamentary group will open in this very hall. We're gonna do a presence check. There are 83, the missing 18.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U85	We will start working on the points on today's agenda. First of all, we plan to discuss the activities of the Estonian Development Fund in 2013 and 2014. Members of the Riigikogu, please pay attention! I think it would be useful if we reminded of Article 155 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, you know how this debate is conducted. First of all, Pirko Konsa, Chairman of the Board of the Development Fund, will be a presentation lasting up to 30 minutes. It is then possible to ask the rapporteur questions; each member of the Riigikogu may ask one oral question. Subsequent negotiations, where only representatives of the political groups can speak. Let us start with the first item on the agenda. Pirko Konsa, Chairman of the Board of the Estonian Development Fund, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U86	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good ambassadors! I stand before you today to give you an overview of the activities of the Estonian Development Fund. Due to the Estonian Development Fund Act, our task is to stimulate and support changes in the Estonian economy. To this end, we have two lines of action: investment and monitoring of development. Our team is now 20 members and we have been performing the tasks that the Riigikogu has assigned us for seven years now. Our organization is unique. We are, on the one hand, a brain trust who, among the few in Estonia, deals with far-reaching development scenarios. On the other hand, we have set the goal of setting an example. We have taken the initiative, on many occasions, to remove one or the other of the bottlenecks we have identified in our analysis and then pass the stick on from the Development Fund. One of the starting points for the entire seven years has been to increase the number of employees that provide Estonia with high added value and to increase the number of such companies. In a globalising economic environment, production is the least value-added part of product creation. Apple's $600 iPhone price makes up only $12. The greatest benefits come from those involved in research, product development, design, sales and marketing. These are the peaks of the value chain where the highest value is created. We all want Estonia to have more activities that cover the whole value chain. Of course, the creation of products covering the whole value chain is more risky than focusing on only one stage, but only the creation of new products will give us the opportunity to take the ends of this value chain into our own hands. Rather, it is unlikely that multinationals would now bring strategic management or product development here. We have only recently seen large companies, such as Fazer or PKC Group, quickly redeploy their production as needed. In order for the valuable parts of the chain to remain in Estonia, it would be better for them to be born here. I will remind you of the story that sounds like fairy tales of four Estonians who were among the founders of one of these companies, whose sales they earned at one point in total one percent of the total GDP of Estonia. Everyone probably knows the name of this company, but not everyone understands that this is the best example of the fact that it is not only the increase in average wages that creates wealth for Estonian society, but it is these bright entrepreneurs who are taking risks to create the product that hundreds, thousands or millions of people around the world need. The value added created by such transactions exceeds the average value added per employee in Estonia or the world tens or hundreds of times. To create value added comparable to the Skype transaction, an average Estonian employee should have worked for more than 4700 years. Another example. In 2006, the online furniture store ON24 created its own logistics department; in 2007, this department later started as a company named SmartPost, which started to develop an unidentified automatic parcel terminal solution in the world at the time. With the support of the Development Fund and Estonian co-investors, the SmartPost parcel terminal network was opened in 2009, which in two years of operation showed both a rapid increase in customer base and market share, that itella, an international logistics giant of Finnish origin, decided to acquire both the network and the brand. SmartPost became part of Itella, but product development continued under the name Cleveron. Now the SmartPost ATM network in Finland is already several times bigger than in Estonia. Last year, machines created by Cleveron were installed in Brazil, and the company also looks at Norway and Spain. On August 19, Cleveron opened a new parcel terminal factory in Viljandi, which employs 70 people. Why am I talking about these two companies? Because the debate on start-ups in recent weeks or start-ups in Estonian has been hopelessly missed by one of the main characterists of the start-up. It is not just a start-up company, not even an export-oriented company. Start-up is by nature a product development company, a living business laboratory that aims to try the viability of one or the other business idea as soon as possible in real terms. This viability must be reflected in the scalability. The product-based business must show not on paper but on real-life growth. Start-up is like a laboratory test: counts for each result, both positive and negative. If the bacteria are squeaking in the test tube, then something else needs to be tried. When the culture starts to grow, it has succeeded in getting into the right veins, and it needs to keep pounding iron. Such an all-or-nothing approach has caused start-ups to blame for little contribution to the economy. This is, of course, contrary to the very nature of the start-up, to try the idea quickly and rawly, to make improvements in real time and taking account of user feedback, instead of draining the budget in the corporate development department for many years. By the way, a failed attempt may also turn positive, as shown by the pet keepers Facebook or United Dogs and Cats. The team of this start-up set up a start-up to develop sales software Pipedrive, which currently employs 35 people mostly in Tallinn, but also in California. In the next year, they plan to hire almost as many more people as you do. For a small country like us, the start-up culture is the only way, because it puts us in a competitive position with all the big ones in the world. This was also the reason why, when a development fund was set up, one of the main tasks was to build the way towards the development of smart money, or venture capital market, that is to say, the start-up fund. Why smart money? Because of the word "risk capital', the first half of the word "risk', rather than the content of that word, is mostly left in the tooth. Risk capital risks have been calculated and are mostly accompanied by a significant influx of knowledge and links to the recipient start-up. Not all investments justify themselves, but the specific nature of venture capital is to accept business risks in the name of a major development leap. Such a leap is not allowed by business models built locally and modestly, but by ambitious models that are smartly looking for their global niche. Twenty-one companies currently belong to the EDF investment portfolio. Two new investments were added this year: Cloutex and Lingvist. The value of our investment portfolio has increased over time and we have now had to write down only three investments. We are particularly pleased that a large number of Estonian business angels participated in the last two investments. What or who are business angels? They have already raised capital for themselves by experienced entrepreneurs who, rather than simply channeling their assets into consumption, support ambitious early-stage entrepreneurs with their money and experience. The Estonian Business Angels Association has been operating in Estonia for almost two years now with more than 70 members. This is the right place to talk about changes in the Estonian venture capital market. The Development Fund started under the circumstances when the provision of venture capital in Estonia was non-existent and there were almost no investments in technology companies. So far, we have eliminated this problem, the number and volume of venture capital investments in Estonia has increased several times, and per capita is also at the forefront of Estonia, even in the world. Money is increasingly being entrusted to Estonia and to start-ups here. A good example is the injection of TransferWise and its 25 million euros from investors, including iconic businessman Richard Branson. The most pressing problem now is whether the growth of firms eligible for risk capital is sufficient. The Council of the Development Fund, meeting in August, initiated the development of a new investment strategy, which is due to be approved at the end of the year. This places emphasis on encouraging the birth of companies in the pre-development phase instead of risk capital. Our common understanding with our partners is that the best way to do this is to invest in at least three professional micro-investment companies and start-ups. At this point, I note that these should be private companies. The new strategy also requires changes to the Estonian Development Fund Act. This could be done by this Riigikogu. Several parties have been involved in establishing the strategy, including KredEx, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and several partners from the private sector. Estonia must set itself the goal of being one of the best places in the world to date for products that change the market. There are unique shortcomings in our environment and people: the Estonian tantrum, from Soviet times and it seems that the genetically transmitted ability to do nothing. All these developmental failures can be our strengths, to which we must add the ability to create products that best meet people's needs. The new investment strategy contributes to the birth of at least one hundred new start-ups, the best of which could perhaps repeat the success story of Skype engineers from Estonia. We can also promote the business environment, so-called soil. At one of the most resonant events of this year, the development ideas competition, which I will discuss in more detail, the start-ups themselves proposed how the Estonian Business Code could be made more favourable to start-ups and ambitious entrepreneurs. If, at present, TransferWise, Pipedrive and several other start-ups are only in Estonia with their own development unit and their parent company's fatherland is the United States or the United Kingdom, I am pleased to note that, in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice and you, the good legislators, the Development Fund is renewing the laws on start-ups. The amendments concern the conditional increase in share capital, the issuance of convertible bonds, the setting of different rights for parts of private companies and other particularly important start-ups. This is because of the desire for more and more Estonia to become the fatherland of the parent companies. But we will not achieve the necessary changes in the economy by committing ourselves solely to start-ups. In cooperation with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of Education and Research, the Development Fund is looking for areas where Estonia has the greatest opportunity to create added value. Let's call it a clever specialization. Specialisation does not mean exclusion. Rather, it means the priority development of areas where Estonia already has considerable knowledge and where, in our opinion, there is potential for the greatest added value in bringing entrepreneurship and science together. These are the areas that we have identified in six. I will give you two examples. First, health care. It is clear that, given our demographic situation, where the problems that have arisen can be compared to the problems of the rest of the developed world, we need to look for a new model. Ten years have passed since the launch of the Estonian e-health system and digital history, and healthcare needs a new impetus. He could be more open to business. The question now is how to make people take more interest in and contribute to their health. We have a role to play in shaping favourable assumptions for this. For example, the state can shape the prerequisites for the entry into the market of new companies, including those providing preventive health services, i.e. in addition to treating patients, healthy people should be created. Developments in health as an economic area should move towards enabling technologies to help people take better care of their own health. It is just as important that hospitals, the Estonian Health Insurance Fund and the entire health care system are ready to introduce innovations and are also prepared to participate in their creation and development into products. Last week the President of the United States visited Estonia, whose speech probably reminded many of the humorous comment that the creation of the U.S. National Health Insurance website, which was prepared with major errors and whose budget was colossal, should have consulted Estonians. This comment proves that Estonia is not far from being known in the world alongside our e-governance. We must take advantage of our unique advantages: a strong IT platform and rapid implementation capacity to be among eHealth carriers globally. Another example of smart specialisation concerns construction, namely knowledge-based construction. The importance of information technology for Estonia is beyond doubt. But how much can we use IT to prevent human error in a traditional area such as construction, speed up the planning process, automate, create higher quality and better buildings? Although the architect, the electrician and the installer of the heating system are now creating drawings in digital form, they are still being compared on paper. This reminds us, however, of the time before the e-Tax Board, how much of the work involved collecting data from the parties and handing them together instead of having a computer deal with data processing and error prevention. We also already have significant achievements in the production of wooden houses and the use of wood as a renewable material in complex construction structures. I started with a list of practical activities that are included in the work plan of the Development Fund. I'll keep doing the same. For the second year in a row, the Development Fund in Estonia carried out European enterprise monitoring, which gives us the opportunity to compare our entrepreneurial attitude and social attitudes with those of other countries. The final report will be published by the end of this month. However, I can tell you in advance that two conclusions emerged. Firstly, the people of Estonia, acting as entrepreneurs, are happier. Secondly, many in Estonia are thinking about starting a business, but very few people reach it compared to other countries. One problem is that people show that they lack the knowledge and skills required for entrepreneurship. There is also fear of failure. It is a question of attitudes, Estonians are insecure and rather timid about entrepreneurship. The results of this study confirm our experience on the basis of which we are also changing our investment strategy. We need to put emphasis on encouraging entrepreneurship so that projects targeting venture capital are more advanced than the first steps. For this purpose, the Founder Institute will start its activities this autumn, the Institute of Start-up Entrepreneurs, which will target people in their 30s and 40s who are currently working as managers or specialists with business spirit, problem-solving skills and personal qualities for the leader, but who, for one reason or another, have delayed the implementation of their idea so far. It's the biggest start-up program in the world. The Development Fund is primarily the bringer and launcher of it to Estonia, not so much the trainer. We hope that within a few years, the Estonian branch of the programme will become independent and will travel without the development fund's auxiliary wheels, just as previously the Estonian Private and Venture Capital Association and the Estonian Business Angels Association have gone. We are also boldly inviting you to think about the competition for highly successful development ideas and the pages of the soon-to-be development fund's think-book, which follows last year's think-book. In the case of a competition for development ideas, it is our desire to support those people who would like to put some important ideas into practice. This is why we put out scholarships for the best ideas and the first three scholarships started work on 1 September. The first of these is probably well known to all the 10 million e-residents behind the idea of Taavi Kotka, Siim Sikkut and Ruth Annus. The role of the scholarship after the competition is to fill the gap between the solution created by the state and giving it practical value. If the state creates infrastructure to issue digital IDs internationally, allowing access to Estonian e-services, then the role of the scholarship is to find the use scenarios and services that should bring Estonia to the e-residents. In other words, the state only offers the opportunity to implement the digital idea and to find out more about Estonians, but finding the primary partners and service providers who will give content to the e-presentation will remain the responsibility of our scholarship. The second idea that was awarded the scholarship came from the Goodeo Foundation, which proposed an innovative solution for the social impact of bonds, in English social impact bonds. The aim of this solution is to bring together the private, public and third sectors and to give the private sector the opportunity, with its practical experience, to help the state to perform some of its functions better as investors. If the objectives set by the State are met, the investor will be guaranteed a return through the redemption of the bonds and the State will have a new and good solution. If the objectives are not met, the investor will lose his investment. I believe that this is certainly one way of bringing innovative thinking into solving the problems facing the country, whether social or otherwise. The third idea is the creation of Estonia as a hackerspace, where all Estonians can voluntarily contribute to designing, developing and testing an electronic product. In the longer term, this idea helps to increase the number of hardware engineers in Estonia. So much for a contest of development ideas. Now I am talking about our major project, the development plan for the energy economy. The aim is to approve this development plan by the end of the year. The development plan describes the possible development of Estonia's energy policy until 2030 with a view to 2050. This is a really big undertaking that brings together five different development plans in transport, heat management, construction and other areas to create a complete picture of what our energy needs are and what types of energy it is sensible for Estonia to use. Tens of experts, if not hundreds, have contributed to combining the five energy plans. The result is the scenarios of the energy economy that allow us to choose between different trends: what is the availability and price of energy for our people, how green we want to adopt a mindset or how independent we want to be of Russian gas. The development plan presents these scenarios in such a way that policy choices can already be made on the basis of them. One message from the green economy is that the solutions to the energy economy are not just national support mechanisms that would favour one or the other source of energy. Thousands of energy cooperatives in Germany and Denmark help citizens to meet their energy needs without the help of large production companies by channelling energy produced by local production units into the network between cooperative members. Apart from cost savings and security of supply, this also means a cleaner and more enjoyable environment and experience of co-operation and self-making for members. In May, Tartu City Government and I started working on a cycling project. I say, to those who do not know that cycling is an opportunity to grab a bicycle from a near-home rental on their way to work in the morning and leave it in a rental near the workplace when they get to work. There are over 600 cities in the world where the cycle works, but our goal is to do it in an innovative way, using technology. In our opinion, there could be at least four or five cities in Estonia in the coming years, where bikes could go out of hand in this way. This brings me back to the idea of seducing reality, which the Development Fund wants to convey in Estonian society. The state doesn't have to do everything for people. It is enough to create the environment and favour the choices made by citizens on their own. Honourable Riigikogu! These examples of the activities and plans of the Development Fund show that the organisation with the task of managing change must also constantly adapt to change itself. Once the failure to provide venture capital has been resolved, our task is to move to where entrepreneurship needs our help now. We also need to be active in the future, both macro and micro, in shaping the economic environment. On the one hand, we must work as the only independent intellectual trust with economic scenarios and visions that are far-sighted in Estonia. On the other hand, we must be the incubator of ideas and, in the case of an idea that has become viable, pass on the baton, as we have done for the winners of the competition for cycling or development ideas. The Board of the Development Fund consists of people with a long-term view of Estonian society and economy. In the near future, the Supervisory Board will be faced with the task of finding a new Chairman of the Board for the Development Fund, who would be the best of the potential in the light of an investment strategy adapted to the new situation and who would be prepared to lead a brain trust made up of experts from the Development Fund. The development fund is needed to enable Estonian policy makers to look further than just a few years ago and Estonian entrepreneurs have the courage to do more if it is enough to live comfortably. These are our tasks and we take them very seriously. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U87	Questions. Valeri Korb.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U88	Thank you. Dear Chairman of the Board of the Estonian Development Fund! I listened to you talk about a new financing strategy. My question has to do with this. Aren't you afraid that the new financing strategy will limit the fields of activity of the Estonian Development Fund, which have been formed over the years?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U89	Thank you. I don't think I'm gonna narrow it down. In my opinion, the task of the Development Fund is to act only where business cannot do without our help. As I said before, we share the view with all market participants that if venture capital transactions are in the order of EUR 1 million or higher and are already made into relatively advanced companies, this market will work. Rather, the problem is how to grow companies that would be willing to accept an investment of EUR 1 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U90	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U91	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, thank you for your presentation, it was very concise. But I wanted to ask you about the development monitoring you've done. You told me in your report that one of them was in the middle of something. In 2012, one more in-depth report on entrepreneurial activity was made in Estonia, where it was pointed out that we have more early-stage companies than other countries, but less established companies once again. I am asking about this report that is being prepared, which highlights the main bottlenecks in our business landscape. Can you tell me what they are yet? Is it a lack of knowledge or ideas, lack of access to capital or lack of courage? What are the factors that prevent businesses from becoming more active in the working age population?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U92	I think that the problem is very much that our entrepreneurial experience, which developed in the 1990s or even in the early 2000s, is primarily linked to outsourcing to other companies. Several times more complex is to create your own product and go to this great world to offer. Such things simply cannot be learned at university or at school; they must be learned from people who already have these experiences. I think that Skype's success story gave Estonia the most what we now see more and more: there are people among us who have these experiences. The question is how we can share these practical experiences with as many people as possible, how can we help people who already have a good idea? We should bring them together with experienced entrepreneurs, with whom they could build a new business. This is, in my opinion, the most important task. The fact that there are not many people with such experiences can be one reason for uncertainty, which is why people do not want to go beyond the idea, and many good ideas remain only ideas and do not become businesses.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U93	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U94	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, There are, of course, many good ideas and ideas in the world. But many of them often fail to live because they say there is no money. My ear caught a somewhat surprising passage in your report, a very pleasantly surprising one. You have confirmed that the so-called 'beyond-the-point' inclusion of venture capital has improved considerably, and there may be a concern that more ideas should be put in place to implement this capital. I remember years ago it was always the problem that the country did not have the opportunity to invest as much as it needed. Is the problem of acute lack of capital almost solved, and now it's just give me ideas?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U95	Thank you. The problem of capital has moved from one place to another. The provision of venture capital has really improved in Estonia. Let's see what KredEx is doing. The Baltic Innovation Fund has started, bringing 100 million euros of additional investment capital to the Baltic market. During the new structural fund period, another fund of funds is planned to be set up under KredEx, which will generate an additional EUR 60 million by the state to the market. It shall comprise at least one venture capital fund. I would say that the inflow of capital to the market is quite a good perspective and that the state is still operating there by some other means. While the Development Fund did so with direct investment, KredEx's strategy is to be a fund of funds and to select private investors who invest public money with their own money. The problem is certainly that such funds are willing to invest in companies with a certain degree of readiness. Someone must, however, prepare these companies and probably make the first investment. Here, I think, the business angels I was talking about have a very big role to play. In cooperation with them, investment and product development companies should be set up, in which we believe the Development Fund should invest, in order to help create new companies where venture capital can later invest itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U96	Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U97	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I also thank you for this review. I'm sure you've learned in the discussions what has been said in Estonia that we're small, but to grow up, you have to act big and together. My keyword is cooperation. How do you assess this cooperation for the various activities now? I am thinking of smart specialisation, state action, the inputs of researchers in business, or, for example, cooperation between entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U98	Thank you. Unfortunately, there is no very high assessment of this. I think one reason is that the need for cooperation has become much more topical than it was perhaps ten years ago. Then the company could simply compete with a skilled workforce, but now it often cannot increase productivity and introduce new technologies on its own, it needs a good partner. Universities and development institutions are also not used to cooperating with Estonian companies. This habit must be created. The Board of the Development Fund is a very good place to discuss how to improve cooperation, because everyone involved sits at the table there: two rectors, two ministers, Riigikogu and representatives of business. As I have pointed out, we are trying to find the places where cooperation can be launched and results can be obtained as quickly as possible through smart specialisation. Can't say there's no cooperation at all. Rather, the question is how many of these companies and universities are and how much this work is worth. This thing has to grow. Dairy companies and construction companies are still working with universities today, but the question is how much this will become so-called increasing added value and how much more valuable their product will be as a result. It's very important. I think there is a great deal that can be done to improve cooperation. The way the Development Fund sees it is that one of our tasks is to try to agree on the objectives for what cooperation should look like. I was talking about e-health, where the interests of hospitals, patients, the state and IT companies are very different. If we want something to change, these interests should be united.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U99	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U100	Thank you. As the initiator of the Development Fund, the Riigikogu is likely to have a supervisory function. I therefore read the annual report for the Estonian Development Fund for the financial year 2013 and noted a few things that I would like to comment on if possible. First of all, the development fund's operating and senior management companies purchased services amounting to EUR 38188 during 2013. Would you care to comment on what such transactions have been made by the Development Fund? The second question concerns the share option programme, which I was not aware of in the past. AS SmartCap, which belongs to the Development Fund, can also issue options to executive directors, board members and board members. Has it been done and to what extent?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U101	Thank you. Unfortunately, I owe an answer to the first question, which I cannot answer right now. However, as far as the option programme is concerned, it has been part of the motivation of workers since the creation of the Development Fund. This programme has not been fully implemented. Options have been issued to both the board and staff. Some of them have been bought back when staff leave. If a new employee is hired, the option programme also applies to him. These options can be implemented progressively over time, depending on how long the person has worked for the fund. Such an option programme is a very common practice in the venture capital industry, because in this business, it is the best motivation for investment managers to increase the value of a company. The option program allows employees to be remunerated for raising the value of the fund and not to pay their wages.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U102	Kalev Kallemets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U103	President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable waitress! I have been able to work for over two years in a company that worked with the Development Fund on smart specialisation. I also attended several working meetings, so I have practical experience. I brought myself up to speed with three main areas of smart specialisation: ITK, e-health and more efficient use of resources, i.e. wooden houses and oil shale. When I spoke with the board members of companies in these sectors, I asked them whether the Development Fund had worked with them in focus. In general, I got the answer that it wasn't. People from leading Estonian companies such as Helmes, Nortal, Home House, Eesti Energia, VKG have just been invited to participate, but this work has not been focused. Do you believe that without focused cooperation with leading Estonian companies, a smart specialisation of 60 million euros will succeed in achieving a development leap in the Estonian real economy, leading to an increase in turnover, exports and jobs?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U104	Thank you. Firstly, I will improve that the budget for smart specialisation is 142 million euros, not 60 million. I am of the opinion that smart specialisation is not a project where we produce some kind of document and that clever specialisation ends. It is a continuing process that will continue until the end of this period of structural resources. We have formed over 20 focus groups, which have been together at least twice, and they will continue to cooperate. Maybe we are just at the beginning of things, but we certainly do not intend to do anything behind the back of entrepreneurs, but still talking to them. Anyone who has an interest can always turn to and participate in the Development Fund. We still haven't sent anyone back from the door.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U105	Jaak Aaviksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U106	Thank you. Good waitress! I'm also gonna stop at a clever specialization. As we know, it is not EAS or even economic operators or the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications that specializes wisely, but the Republic of Estonia. Therefore, such a strategic political decision, which is an area of smart specialisation, must be made with the knowledge and support of the public. Only then can it be hoped that this will be a set of growth areas that strategically promote the Estonian economy. The second assumption is that growth areas currently have a considerable role to play and a serious potential for growth. I have a specific question. You mentioned three areas of growth and some niche-specialisation. How much do these areas of growth represent of Estonia's GDP and how much have you planned their growth over the next ten years?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U107	Thank you. I have no choice but to accept your comment. In my opinion, the development fund has a very important role to play as a leader in the fact that, when some areas are selected and agreed, it must have much more broad-based approval than one ministry or another or one or another authority. As regards the extent to which areas of smart specialisation have an impact on the economy, we will look at these niches more specifically. The share of medicine or health care in GDP is, if I remember correctly, 3 to 4%. If we look at how much the processing industry gives, and we consider that our understanding that ICT must help the industry robotize, automate, to create production in Estonia, which will be competitive in the long term, will have a wide impact. If we look at how many companies are involved in the development of one product or another, the turnover of these products may not be that high. But the question is how this effect is felt in the wider economy. For example, let's talk about construction. The construction sector has an annual volume of EUR 3 billion. If we are able to operate 10% better in this sector, this means that we have an additional value of EUR 300 million. I believe that points have been chosen that have a relatively broad impact.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U108	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U109	Thank you, President-in-Office. Honourable performer! I'm going to go to a little bit less of a subject about bigger issues and I'm going to talk about the internal life of the Development Fund. I would like to ask about the departure of Tõnis Arro from the chairman of the management board of the Estonian Development Fund. The reason was the difference between the positions of the former President and those of the Council on matters of principle. I would ask you to comment on what these fundamental questions are, how they were seen by the former Chairman of the Board and how they are seen by the current Council. I understand that you have to respond very delicately, but please just outline what these differences were about, I mean in principle.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U110	Thank you. Firstly, what I was talking about here today has been agreed with the chairman of the Council, that was the wish of the Council. What was the difference? I think that, as stated in the press release at the time of departure, there were fundamental differences in attitudes to strategy. Tõnis Arro believes that the Development Fund should do a little more than what I was talking about here today. The second part of the disagreements concerned fundamental differences in governance. But I have not been present in these discussions between the Council and the President, so if I were to comment on them here, I would be engaged in speculation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U111	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U112	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, thank you very much for your presentation. You said that finding your niche wisely in global business is one of the cornerstones of the business success of multinational companies. I understand that there have been angel investors with taxpayers' money, and venture capital funds have also emerged. But internationalization requires much more capital. Do you think that the Estonian money market functions sufficiently and is dynamic enough to allow ordinary savers, so-called small investors, to place their savings in the internationalisation of companies?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U113	Thank you. I'm going to answer that by two points. First of all, as far as ambitious companies are concerned, the money market has long been so globalized that those Estonian companies that need this capital are certainly looking not only for it in Estonia, but they are looking for the most suitable investors. When the Prime Minister opened TransferWise's new office yesterday, representatives of two TransferWise investor companies were also present, both of which are now located in New York, because there are the strongest specialists in the funds investing in financial services companies. In this sense, the world has become quite small. The second point concerns better placement opportunities for Estonian savers or Estonian citizens' money. One thing I did not talk about today is that, just as it is possible to borrow more money from a person to a person, there have also been environments in the world where private individuals can invest money directly into businesses by small amounts. The current legal framework in Estonia does not really allow it if, for example, I would like to do my own small bakery and I would like to involve small investors through some Internet solutions. We've done an analysis that should be changed, and we're going on with it. It will take a while, but I believe that we will come to you after a while with some proposals to use new technology to make it better for Estonian people to invest in new or innovative companies in the Estonian legal area.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U114	Jaanus Tamkivi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U115	Thank you, Chairman. Dear waitress, A few years ago, when the previous Chairman of the Board of the Development Fund gave us a small overview of the developments and plans of the Estonian Development Fund, he said that one of the main development problems of the Estonian economic environment is that there are too few entrepreneurial people and entrepreneurs in Estonian society. He claimed that the development fund could be the one that would be led by which Estonian society's so-called large-scale preparations would be made for thousands of new entrepreneurs. Does this plan still fly in the development fund, or has it become history?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U116	Thank you. I think Tõnis Arro was talking about the right things. The question is who should do it and how. My personal view is that in Estonia it could be the case that we have agreed with EAS and KredEx on our division of work in such a way that these smart start-ups that change global entrepreneurship are the ones in which the Development Fund is a specialist, while most companies should be assisted by EAS and KredEx. In that sense, the idea goes on. As I said in the report, our people still have the problem of wanting to be entrepreneurs, but either they do not know how or they do not dare. But I think that the Development Fund should not do everything by itself, but rather, in cooperation with the EAS, come up with the best solutions, take advantage of everything that the Estonian state has already created for taxpayers' money, they are then county development centres, EAS programmes or what the Development Fund is doing. It's just important to set up a division of labour.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U117	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U118	Thank you, Mr President. Thanks to the waitress! What is the position of regional competence centres within the development fund's network of cooperation? How do you see this position?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U119	Thank you. This is another very vivid example that Estonian research and development is planned in very different places. The Centres of Excellence programme is known to be funded from the Ministry of the Interior. The objectives of smart specialisation today, including what the wider picture of Estonia could be, as if not taken into account. But our understanding in the long term is that the activities and programmes planned by the Ministry of the Interior should also be included, in the same way as the activities of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of the Environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U120	Olga Soldier, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U121	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, thank you very much for my presentation. You spoke about the growth of entrepreneurship and the launch of a new programme for the 30-40s. During the summer there was also an event for children, where you sold lemonade in cooperation with the Estonian business angel organisation or at least organised such a great event for children. Do you intend to continue to involve young people, children and schoolchildren or to develop programmes for them, or are there other organisations that have to deal with it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U122	Thank you. We have analysed the business environment and tried to understand what the problems are. Raising an entrepreneurial attitude must already take place in kindergarten and school. A person needs to see as a career opportunity not only that he goes to work for someone from nine to five, but he can see as a career opportunity that he himself takes the lead and solves some important problem. We wanted to show with the day of lemonade that it is possible to create a change very quickly by relatively small means, simply working together. As I said in my speech, the task of the Development Fund is also to set an example at a very practical level. We do not intend to be the organiser of the soda day, but I hope that this day will be a tradition in cooperation with the organisations involved in this area. It is extremely nice that we can also see that young people are engaged in entrepreneurship on the day of their stay. I think this is a very positive trend. Yeah, it's a one-time project, but we're hoping someone's gonna pick up the idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U123	Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U124	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! The Development Fund lost its clear capital some time ago when the state decided to dispose of Eesti Telekom. Since then, the Development Fund has had such a strange status: it is as if much is expected of it, but it does not have very many economic opportunities. You talk a lot about working with EAS. Have you discussed with one another, maybe it would be worth turning your development engine into an EAS? Then you could get closer to capital. Perhaps the synergy resulting from this accession would bring real benefits to the development of the Estonian economy and no one could blame you anymore? Haven't you thought of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U125	Thank you. Of course, as far as I know, this issue has also been discussed, and we have discussed it among ourselves. However, I think there is a very large difference between EAS and the Estonian Development Fund. We are a separate organisation under the authority of the Riigikogu and can therefore deal with long-term problems and involve different parties. EAS is clearly an institution implementing state policy. The EAS and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications have also said that they will benefit much more from the Development Fund on their own, not that we will be part of this big machine, because we can give them advice by seeing a wider picture.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U126	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. I would like to thank the Chairman of the Board of the Development Fund for his presentation and all his colleagues for their involvement in this debate. The item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U127	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Let me say a few words on behalf of the Socialists. Seven years in the life of an institution is not a long time. As they say, whoever doesn't happens doesn't happen. The comments and questions that were made and asked in this Chamber of the Riigikogu are well-founded and we join them. I believe that the management of the Development Fund, I am thinking of the strengthened Council and the new executive chairman elected, will take these comments and proposals into account. In summary, we believe that a development fund of this status, as mentioned above, created in the form of Finland's Sitra, is undoubtedly necessary for the Estonian state. We think that this is the status. This circa million euro, which has so far been allocated from the state budget every year, is necessary to support the economic-political and economic trends and trends of the Estonian state. So the strength to work for you and the strength to cooperate with this house!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U128	Mr Kallo, please, representative of the Central Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U129	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, As we know, the Riigikogu has invited the Estonian Development Fund to implement and support changes in the Estonian economy and society, which would speed up the modernisation of the economic structure, lead to growth in exports and help create new, highly skilled jobs. It is recalled that during a discussion of the previous annual report of the Development Fund in this Chamber, the then chairman of the Board of the Development Fund invited the Riigikogu, as the creator of the Development Fund, to closer cooperation and said that the Riigikogu committees could make more use of the potential of the Development Fund in their activities. Looking at the areas of work of the Development Fund, it is clear that the Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu is certainly not the only one who could have closer cooperation with this fund. In my opinion, this was a perfectly adequate and sensible proposal. Unfortunately, it has to be noted that the proposal has been understood in the Riigikogu with a negative sign. I mean that not even the Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu found time or opportunity for the previous discussion of the 2013 annual report under discussion. In the past, this debate has still taken place. Today, this report has come to this Chamber without the Committee on Economic Affairs discussing it in advance, although we are surprised to see from this report that more substantial cooperation is also being made with the Riigikogu committees, especially the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on the Environment. Based on the above, I do not know how to comment on this major and substantial cooperation, but it is certainly a good thing to have it. I am not going to dwell on the accounts, but I am going to look at some of the activities included in the activity report. As a positive example of this, I noticed that the Development Fund started a more detailed qualitative analysis of the Estonian business landscape in cooperation with the Institute for Development of Global Entrepreneurship. As a result of this analysis, the main bottlenecks in the Estonian business landscape should be apparent. In such a small and resource-poor economy, the accurate knowledge of the bottlenecks that hamper the economy is certainly very important. More importantly, I believe that the results of the analysis will be taken into account in the planning of their activities by the relevant public authorities and, of course, by the private sector, so that the information received is not simply left on the shelf. It would certainly be good if the Riigikogu committees worked with these results and found useful in planning their activities. It was a pleasure to hear in the presentation that the serious venture capital problem in the early years is somewhat resolving, although I understood from the answer to the additional question that venture capital is not coming up at the very beginning, but when it seems that something is starting to happen. But anyway, it's a good thing that it's possible to raise capital on the sidelines. I wish there were more good ideas and those good germs to grow! In my opinion, this is one of the results of the long and hard work of the Development Fund. I would like to wish the Development Fund a successful job, the development of good strategies and their proposal so that politicians believe them and actively support and implement them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U130	I hope that the decision-making bodies involved will come back to this issue and, in the near future, a greater consensus will be reached on how to really develop the Estonian economy in a strategic key, with the support of structural instruments in particular, by increasing its international competitiveness. The document on the website of the Development Fund, dated 13 August, entitled 'List of niches for the specialization of Niche', is probably not a step in the direction that would enable Estonia to shape its socio-economic situation in such a way that Estonia's international competitiveness would be significantly and effectively enhanced. I am talking about another topic that deserves attention not only with regard to the Development Fund, but also with regard to several other important public institutions in Estonia. This concerns future monitoring, strategic choices in both the economy and politics. It is a search for strategic cooperation, competition and synergies between institutions. If there is something missing in Estonia, it is not money, even good ideas move from time to time. We have a shortage of people who would be able to develop something from these ideas in a professional, modern and internationally visible way that would have a chance of survival in time, financial and political terms. Those organisations that have the human potential to deal with issues are not only the development fund but also the EAS with KredEx, but also the academy of sciences and universities, and perhaps the most serious organisation from the private sector is the think tank or development centre in Praxis. I think that, on the initiative of the Development Fund, there should be a search for more substantive strategic cooperation to resolve individual important issues, but to resolve them in such a way that the full human potential is involved. It is, true, modest, but if necessary, we will also be able to fill gaps through a skilled choice of specialists from other countries, so that we can bake decisions from these strategic choices that would find a credible level of approval here in the Riigikogu and which the government will support over the years, whether with or without the support of European structural funds. Therefore, allow me to wish the Estonian Development Fund courage, happiness and also reasonable political support in the coming period so that they can perform these tasks with dignity and, as far as I am concerned, come to this Chamber of the Riigikogu within the framework of their presentation, with proposals which, after this presentation, would be realised as draft laws and political initiatives at the level of the Riigikogu. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U131	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, Since I have had the honour of being at the birth of the idea of the Development Fund, it was already more than 20 years ago, watching the birth of this organisation seven years ago and its activities in the last five years, let me be allowed to look at it in a slightly more general context than a specific year of operation and concrete projects. It is no secret that the Development Fund, as we know it today, has been set up in line with the Sitra Fund in Finland and was designed to meet the same goals that Sitra has achieved over the decades, with a true, different success. Apparently, Sitra has now lost its own role or at least its influence in Finnish society. Therefore, the development fund cannot be viewed as if we were looking at Sitra's smaller brother in the Estonian edition. However, I do think it is appropriate to ask this also because of the previous presentation, whether it is indeed a strategic instrument for socio-economic development in Estonia, which would justify the existence of such a public institution under its law in direct parliamentary jurisdiction, or whether it is a tactical organisation that solves important but still largely tactical issues, whether it is promoting entrepreneurship in schools, organising cycling in cities with less than 100000 inhabitants, or some other activities which I rightly have reason to doubt about strategicism. Therefore, I think that the issues that the Development Fund is dealing with should have a broader or, as has been said, strategic impact on Estonia's socio-economic development. As of now, in my opinion, this is neither an investment activity nor a monitoring of development, which is another important area of activity. This is not a complaint to the executive or development fund as such, but I will draw the attention of the Riigikogu, which set up the development fund, to the fact that we should look seriously at whether an institution such as the Riigikogu, within these objective operating frameworks, as the Riigikogu has put in place by means of financing decisions and also by law, meets in the best possible way this role and the objective of the development fund as formulated by law. Investment activities and portfolio are likely to be professionally and well managed, and we can probably expect success stories from there, within the limits of the possibilities that the fund has had. True, the option programme offered to management at the expense of public money is, in my opinion, something that at least needs a thorough public explanation before it can be signed unambiguously. In the latter part, I will focus on important activities such as smart specialisation, which is, as we know, an approach taken across Europe. This will allow countries to change their economic activities a little and eliminate unnecessary duplication between different national ambitions if you want to. It is therefore important which strategic choices will be made within the framework of smart specialisation. It seems to me that the areas of smart specialisation have not been sufficiently seriously developed, not to mention the agreement, disclosure and transformation of partners into central choices for the country's socio-economic development, as originally envisaged. I believe that there is enough room for improvement here not only on the Development Fund I mean his guidance and the Council, but also on the Government, the Riigikogu and the ministries involved. Please extend the time!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U132	Tiit Tammsaar, please, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U133	The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions at the moment. Thank you, Chairman of the Board. Surprisingly and regrettably, one question remained unanswered by the member of the Riigikogu, Arto Asa. Please, do it! Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U134	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I stand before you today as a representative of the Reform Party Group and also a relatively new member of the Estonian Development Fund Council, in order not to say a very fresh member. I've prepared a little speech. The Estonian Development Fund started its activities in April 2007. The Development Fund has been called upon by the Riigikogu to initiate and support changes in the Estonian economy and society, which would speed up the modernisation of the economic structure, lead to export growth and help create new, highly skilled jobs. To achieve these goals, the Estonian Development Fund organises development monitoring and, together with private investors, carries out venture capital investments in innovative, growing and international companies in Estonia. Pursuant to the plan to restore the investment capital of the Development Fund and to continue its investment activities, on 1 March 2011, the Development Fund established 100% subsidiary AS SmartCap, which was requested to be authorised by the Financial Supervision Authority as a venture capital fund management company. The inspection issued SmartCap's license to AS, according to which SmartCap may act as a venture capital fund management company under the Investment Funds Act. SmartCap is subject to State Financial Supervision by the Financial Supervision Authority and, as of 1 April 2012, the Development Fund will carry out its investment activities through SmartCap. To date, through its investment company, the Development Fund manages an early phase investment fund of more than EUR 33 million, of which more than 10 million have been invested. In addition, more than EUR 30 million of additional capital from private investors has been raised in investment capital. Through monitoring and growth programmes, the Development Fund supports investment activities and creates prerequisites for the emergence of more innovative companies with the potential to conquer the world, high value-added jobs, knowledge-based capitalists in Estonia. The monitoring areas of the Development Fund are entrepreneurship, green economy and energy and smart specialisation. Customers of monitoring and growth programmes-partners are the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of the Environment. Cooperation will also take place with Riigikogu committees, in particular the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on the Environment. When assessing the current activities of the Development Fund, the investment side of SmartCap has fulfilled its role very well. The environment for early stage investments in Estonia is very active, thanks to SmartCap. Basically, this sector has entered a phase where direct investment is no longer required through SmartCap. However, some problems have emerged on the monitoring side in recent years. This is particularly the case in three areas: cooperation with partners, unclear objectives in different areas of monitoring and practical implementation of monitoring results. These problems, in my opinion, were also quite well highlighted here in the round of questions and answers. But to put it another way, it could be expressed by saying, "What good is our knowledge if they are not used? ' In further action, the Development Fund should improve its cooperation with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications in particular, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications should be the daily cooperation partner of the Estonian Development Fund with the universities and, of course, with the Riigikogu. The Development Fund and Estonia will benefit if the Development Fund deals with a smaller number of things in depth, not everything superficially and only by giving birth to ideas. Ideas must also be implemented and the role of the leader in its implementation must become a natural part of the work of the Development Fund. Finally. The development fund can only carry out the tasks assigned to it successfully if its work results are also of interest to change in this Chamber. As a young member of the Council of the Development Fund, I believe I can also do this on behalf of my colleague, Indrek Saare, that we will do everything we can in the future to ensure that the smart conclusions of the Development Fund are found in the legislative sphere of the Riigikogu. There was talk about entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship in Estonia and among Estonians. Again, my personal claim is that my homework has been done in this regard. I recently had a development conversation at home with my 15-year-old son and a question he wanted to be, he said, "An investor." Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U135	As a representative of the Jaak Aaviksoo Isamaa and Res Publica Union Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U136	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U137	Let's move on to the next item. The second point is the second reading of the Act on the Organisation of Health Services, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and the Act on the Amendment of the Traffic Act 667. It is a great honour to ask Rein Aidma, Member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U138	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Draft Act 667 on the organisation of health services and the amendment of the Traffic Act initiated by the Government of the Republic provides for an electronic medical certificate which a person submits for authorisation to drive a means of transport. You can use the Health Information System to apply for it. That is the essence of this draft. The Riigikogu discussed this draft law at first reading, which was also closed on 4 June. No amendments were tabled by the political groups, committees or members of the Riigikogu by the deadline for submitting amendments. The Commission discussed this draft law before sending it to second reading on 8 September. The discussion was that not everyone who would be able to formalise a medical certificate using an ID-card via the Health Information System would do so, because some people simply do not use an ID-card. For this reason, there will continue to be an opportunity to fill out a health declaration on paper at the health care provider's. The Social Affairs Committee decided to send draft law amending the Law on the organisation of health services initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Road Traffic Act to second reading by 10 September with a proposal to finish the second reading. The Commission also decided that, once the second reading of the draft was completed, the draft should be sent to the third reading on 17 September and put to the final vote. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U139	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. No amendments have been received to draft 667 and the position of the commission is that the second reading should be completed. The second reading is closed and the second item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U140	Let's move on to the third item. The second reading of the Health Insurance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Act amending the Health and Safety at Work Act 679 begins. I ask Rein Aidma, member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu Chair, for a presentation!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U141	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. The draft law amending the Health Insurance Act and the Health and Safety at Work Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 679 provides in the Health Insurance Act and other laws for the issue of a disability sheet and its submission to the employer and health insurance fund in electronic form. The first reading was completed on 20 June. No amendments to the draft law were tabled by the deadline for submitting amendments. The Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft law amending the Health Insurance Act and the Health and Safety at Work Act before sending it to second reading at its meeting on 8 September and decided to send draft law amending the Health Insurance Act and the Health and Safety at Work Act to second reading by 10 September with a proposal to finish the second reading. The Committee also decided that if the second reading was to be completed, the draft should be sent to the third reading by 17 September and put to the final vote. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-10_U142	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. No amendments have been received to bill 679. The position of the commission is that the second reading should be terminated. The second reading is therefore closed and the third item is also dealt with. Good fellows, today's session is closed. I thank you and wish you the strength of your work! Closure of the sitting at 3.27 p.m.
