ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-20_U1	Good fellows, honourable Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the session of the fifth working week of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. First of all, I would like to ask for a chair of speakers from the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or inquiries. There's no call. We don't have any messages today either. So we're going to run a presence check. 82 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, none 19.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-20_U2	Let's get to today's agenda. The first point is the third reading of the draft Act amending the Packaging Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? There are no requests, so we can go to the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 568 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 88 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. Draft Act 568 amending the Packaging Act initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-20_U3	Let us move on to the second item on the agenda, which is the report on the 2013 implementation of the 'Criminal Policy Developments until 2018'. The rapporteur is Hanno Pevkur, Minister of Justice. Let me also briefly present the procedure for dealing with this item. First, the Minister of Justice's presentation is up to 20 minutes, then he can ask questions. Any member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to the rapporteur. After the round of questions, there is a round of negotiations during which representatives of the political groups can speak. At the end of the discussion, the Riigikogu will not take a decision. It is a great honour for me to welcome Hanno Pevkur, Minister of Justice, in the Riigikogu Chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-20_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Before I introduce the implementation of criminal policy, let me thank you for your work over the course of ten years. The drafting of the law on law enforcement adopted yesterday has taken no less and no more than ten years in Estonia. Because this process has come to an end and from 1 July Estonia has a new law enforcement law, it is a big job and thank you for that! But now to criminal policy. As we know, the Minister of Justice stands before you once a year to give an overview of what is happening in criminal policy. Before going to the report, I consider it important to note that 2013 was the time for preparing major changes in criminal law. A review of penal law, which has already passed the first reading in Parliament, took almost three years of work and effort. It is clear that if the criminal law reform increases the proportion of misdemeanour proceedings, attention must also be paid to the type of proceedings that could be termed a minor brother or sister in criminal proceedings. I am pleased to note that at the end of last year, the draft Code of Misdemeanour Procedure also reached the Riigikogu. In drawing up this, we set the objective of a swift, efficient and high-quality misdemeanour procedure, which would reduce the time and bureaucracy of both the defendant and the persons involved in the misdemeanour. We have already been debating in the press, and we will probably continue to discuss which is more sensible: whether to punish someone for a crime or for a misdemeanour. All in all, the question is what name has been given to an act at some point in time. For example, private activity was considered a criminal offence in its time, and even if bread or other food was purchased to livestock or poultry from national or cooperative stores. The understanding changes over time. That was the time now, more than ten years after the Penal Code came into force, to carry out a thorough review of penal law. When it comes to wrongdoing and wrongdoing, it is certainly worth thinking about the wallet. Crimes are relatively expensive for the state to deal with. For example, only about two shopliftings can be handled for the average wage in Estonia. The same misdemeanor procedure is four to five times cheaper. And if the result of a shoplifter is mostly the same, i.e. he pays the penalty for money or is in detention for a short time, it is worth wondering whether the more expensive procedure, as there is in criminal proceedings, still gives us a significantly better result or not. Now, however, an overview of the fulfilment of the objectives of criminal policy. Since time is limited, I'm just focusing on the main thing. More detailed overview can be found on the website of the Ministry of Justice. To begin with, I am talking about the general level of crime, which you can also read about the statistics set by the Ministry of Justice, which are available to you on the billboard. The number of registered crimes fell for the first time last year to less than 40 000: in 2013, 39631 crimes were registered, which is 3% less than in 2012 and 31% less than ten years ago. The victim survey of the Ministry of Justice, Eurobarometer and the Social Survey of Statistics Estonia also confirm that people's safety has improved and their sense of security has increased. Now for the most serious crimes, including killings. The number of people killed as a result of violence decreased significantly last year and reached the lowest level of the new independence period. In 1994, just over 400 people were killed in Estonia and, for example, 64 in 2012. In 2013, 42 were killed. The decline has been fast ten times in 20 years. At the same time, there are still too many killings. There is concern about the proportion of killings related to domestic violence, which accounts for 31% of all killings. In order to get close to the European average in terms of the percentage of killings, the number of killings should decline twice more. The number of convicted persons fell by 4% in Estonia last year, while the number of arrested fell by nearly one fifth, or 18%. As of the turn of the year, there were 684 arrested in Estonia, twice as many as ten years ago. However, there is no reason to rejoice, as the analysis carried out in the Ministry of Justice a few months ago shows that the periods of arrest are still too long: on average, the arrest lasts six months and is obviously too much. Last year, both the Ministry of Justice and the University of Tartu analysed the arrest and, in this connection, criminal proceedings in particular from the point of view of ensuring fundamental rights. I firmly believe that the regulation of arrest, as well as search and surveillance will have to be amended this year. We are currently preparing a relevant bill and I very much hope that the government will present it to the Riigikogu before Midsummer Day. The first priority of criminal policy is the fight against juvenile delinquency. Its level has been stable in recent years. Although there are no serious problems in Estonia with large public disorder organised by youth gangs, the situation can be significantly improved. I am currently excluding family problems, drug abuse and early school leaving, which are social concerns for juvenile crime, and I am focusing on institutions dealing with minors. The problems of special schools have come to light again because of what happened in Tapa. In 2008, we read news of the violence in Puiatu Special School, in 2009 something similar to that in Tapa, and in September of the same year Puiatu School was already closed. Kill Special School cannot be closed, but it is certainly possible to make a so-called restart of the system. Children in special schools, mostly children from disadvantaged growing conditions, must not be regarded as criminals and schools as penal institutions in which staff perform the duties of a prison guard. As I stood before you last year, I said that special school must become a more rehabilitation institution, and today I am even more sure of that. I would stress that a sufficient number of professional staff are essential for the functioning of such an institution, but it is obvious that the renovation of schools will have to be carried out at first speed, as their current outdated architectural solution favours violence and, of course, disorder. Unfortunately, the deadline for renovation of special schools has been postponed not for months but for years. I hope that the recent promises made by the Ministry of Education and Research will keep water and that new-faced schools will be opened in the near future. From here it is appropriate to go on with the question of who is responsible for dealing with risky children when the family, ordinary school and local government are no longer able to cope. Unlike many other countries, this task is primarily for special schools and juvenile committees in Estonia. At the same time, the new draft law on child protection proposes to increase the role of the social system in helping such children. Next to the municipal child welfare system, there will be a national child welfare system. Thus, after a while, the state will deal with the same children and families in parallel with both education and social systems. Whether such an approach justifies itself will be shown by time. For example, at our northern neighbours, special schools are being carried together by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Education. In my opinion, consideration could also be given to linking minors' committees to the national child protection system, so that the system is truly harmonised and effective. The second priority of criminal policy is the prevention of repeated crime. There were 3123 prisoners in Estonia at the turn of the year. Looking at how these people have arrived in prison, how long the penalties are, and to what extent we support their abiding lives after being released, it cannot be said that we have met 100% of the aim of developments to imprison only criminals with dangerous tendencies. In order to reach Europe's average level, there should be about twice as many prisoners in Estonia as today. The fact is also that 76% of those imprisoned carry their sentence to the end. This means that they are not expected to be supported or supervised on the other side of the prison gate. The Court dismisses these people before the deadline, in particular, probably on the grounds that they may commit new crimes. It is humanly understandable, but it has a price: the crime school in prison lasts longer, supporting family and social ties are cut off, and the freed person has no chance of getting used to a new life gradually. Therefore, I say that our probation system is ready to carry out much more of the tasks for which it has been put into practice, and it is not worth giving up the opportunity to reduce repeated criminal activity. But the parole officer isn't the only one a freed prisoner needs to avoid crime and set his life on track. Last year I spoke of volunteer supporters who supported the riders. This support has been provided by 213 released or already released detainees. Less than ten of them have returned to prison. Compared to the overall recurrence, this result is significant. For example, 38% of those released from prison in 2012 committed a new crime during the year. I recall that only ten of the 213 people who received the support service returned to prison. It is also early to say with full conviction that those who have used the help of supporters will be able to cope legally for the rest of their lives, but we will closely monitor the state of affairs and make sure that the Riigikogu is informed of the results. From reducing repeated crime, I will go to the following passion-enhancing topic: crimes against individuals. First of all, I'm talking about domestic violence today. In 2013, 2752 domestic violence crimes were registered, or 23% increase. Domestic violence accounts for just over one third of all violent crimes. At the same time, it is still an extremely latent crime. According to statistics on women's asylum, only 11% of the victims approached the police. The proportion of minors and the number of children who see violence in their homes are also a cause for concern. It should also be said that in at least 1% of cases of domestic violence, the victim was pregnant and almost as many cases involved killings and murders. In order to ensure timely and effective resolution of these cases, we need to get local social and child protection workers, police officers, prosecutors, victim support workers, health care workers, women's shelters and education workers in child-related cases. To this end, the first anti-family violence network was set up in 2013 under the leadership of the Ministry of Justice and in cooperation with several institutions in Pärnu County, which aims to deal more systematically with cases and support victims. Although professionals who deal with victims and perpetrators stand for the same thing, a push was needed to help them understand the importance of daily cooperation. The project team gathered experts more clearly to work towards one goal and helped them to understand who their main partners were and what each actor's role is in solving cases. Similar networks are planned to be created throughout Estonia. It is also worth noting that the Ministry of Justice supported a programme of EUR 50000 for domestic violence. We need to understand the simple truth: in order to prevent violence, both the victim and the perpetrator must be dealt with. Finally, I am talking about corruption. 2013 was a special year. Firstly, I recall the entry into force of the new anti-corruption law in spring, which is much more substantive than the predecessor. For example, the law applies to all those who perform public tasks in any way. This way you can no longer get behind the legal form or legal loophole in order to engage in transactions with the taste of conflicts of interest. Last year, the government approved a new anti-corruption strategy until 2020. Let it be said that this is the year of the Tokyo Summer Olympics. And it is projected that by then the Chinese yuan will become the third main currency of exchange alongside the euro and the dollar. Speaking more seriously, it should also be a year when, with the help of the successful implementation of the strategy, Estonia will be among the least corrupt countries. The saying that we are sinking strategies into the sea has become a critique that is easy to grasp. But the question is not whether there are many or few strategies; the question is whether they work. An anti-corruption strategy is planned to be a lively and non-formal agenda. We reduce the opportunities that encourage corruption, raise awareness and increase the transparency of processes. We want to reach both entrepreneurs and young people. And even though this is a government strategy, I suggest you, too, good members of the Riigikogu, take a look at this short and specific document. For those who have not yet read it, it can be said that politicians are also spoken of there. Last year Estonia successfully completed the third round of GRECO evaluation. Funny enough to say that thanks to the evaluation of the funding of Estonian parties, our public knows the Council of Europe's anti-corruption connection GRECO now better than the Greek Spanish Renaissance Artist El Grecot. What did GRECO tell us? It is important that the amendments to our party law, which correspond to almost all the recommendations of the evaluation report, are recognised. The funding of political parties and electoral campaigns has become a more robust and transparent framework. However, in order not to dream in the warmth of this gesture, I would stress that evaluation of other issues will continue, including the prevention of conflicts of interest for Members. Ladies and gentlemen of the Riigikogu, I would like to put to your heart: use the anti-corruption commission you have set up and ask them for more training and written example cases before the warm summer, which would help to avoid conflicts of interest! You will be smarter and hopefully Greco will also be pleased, who will evaluate Estonia's activities this summer. It is also worth recalling the newly published European Commission report on corruption and its recommendations to the Riigikogu. I also note that Estonia's place in the Transparency International Corruption Perception Index improved. Estonia scored 68 points and landed high on the national rankings. Behind Estonia's good position there seems to be a consistent shift towards the better. The assessments made to us as a whole have improved. If we can push up eight more places, we will be among the 20 best, which would be a significant result for 177 comparable countries. I now comment that the number of corruption crimes has increased. You will certainly look at the stats you have been given with the astonishment that the number of corruption crimes has doubled compared to 2012. However, it must be borne in mind that the number of recorded corruption offences depends mainly on three factors: legislative changes, the work and repetition of legal guardians, i.e. the same crimes of one person. 2013 is characterised by a very high number of repeated crimes. One major case relates to Haapsalu examiner of the Road Administration, who allowed at least 33 people to pass the theory exam for bribery. There were quite a few bribers in this story. Another major story was the Environmental Inspectorate, where the inspector failed to comply with the inspection obligation for his pleasure and shared information from the authorities. Without these two schemes, there would have been no significant change in the number of corruption crimes. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Much has been done in cooperation with public authorities and their partners to make Estonia safer. However, much remains to be done. In addition to the legislative changes that have already arrived in Parliament this year, as I mentioned, there is a need to organise criminal proceedings in order to ensure better protection of fundamental rights. It is also necessary to set new targets to be followed when the implementation of the development plan to reduce violence is completed at the end of the year. I am counting on the cooperation and constructive reflection of all of you, both today and in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-20_U5	Minister, thank you very much. You have questions too. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-20_U6	Thank you. Mr. Minister! Do you think a chronic shoplifter, who also lives from theft, is more afraid of criminal proceedings or misdemeanor proceedings? What do you expect: If we now raise the financial limit of the sentence, will it increase theft or reduce them?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-20_U7	Thank you. The previous change in the number of thefts did not affect much. If we take the changes that have been made in 2002 and since then, when it comes to surveys carried out by the Ministry of Justice and other studies, thieves do not rely on the value of property as much as on how easy it is to steal one or the other item. Consequently, I do not think that the overall number of thefts will increase. As for the chronic thieves, as you mentioned in the introduction, repeated theft will continue to be criminally punished regardless of the value of the stolen goods. I don't think there's gonna be a big shift. The number of offences will probably remain more or less the same, but there will certainly be a shift within the offences in the direction that the number of offences will increase and the number of crimes will decrease. But that was the same thing the last time the Penal Code was passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-20_U8	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-20_U9	Thank you, Mr President. Developments in criminal policy provide for cooperation with local authorities to prevent crime. Perhaps the minister would describe in more detail how the cooperation with the local authorities last year was successful? In what areas was this done, and in what areas should more be done? How's that heading going?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-20_U10	Cooperation will take place with both municipalities and rural governments. Perhaps the best example is Pärnumaa, as I mentioned in my speech. However, law enforcement agencies are constantly cooperating with local governments, especially directly at the police level. Joint prevention by the relevant police and local authorities has been quite effective. The other part of the question was what piece of work could be better or where we might be headed. I would focus on two target groups in particular: young people and family violence. The municipal social system should be such that it can be trusted. People need to know that if problems arise in a family, the municipality will receive support and help if necessary. However, if the municipality is not encouraged to go to it, it should be possible to get help through the shelters of the same women, which mostly exist in every county. This would also make cases of domestic violence more aware. As I said, according to a survey of women's asylums, only 11% of cases of domestic violence reached the police. It's too small a number. If we are to deal seriously with cases of domestic violence, we must hope that the victims will report them. As far as cooperation with municipalities is concerned, I really see two directions: firstly, young people and children, since schools are mostly administered by municipalities, and secondly, domestic violence.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-20_U11	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-20_U12	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. The Ministry of Justice is responsible for the planning of legal policy and the systematic development of Estonian law. This job has to do with people. Let us be honest that most of the results you have talked about depend on how the people of the Ministry of the Interior work, not on the Ministry of Justice. Their more acute problems are known. We're talking about police personnel, their salaries, we're talking about the flow of the police frame, and so on. I have a question for you: how often do you and the Minister of the Interior, together with your colleagues, discuss these matters with regard to the tasks facing the Ministry of Justice?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-20_U13	My colleagues and I discuss this very often. We have this formal tradition of meeting each other twice a year, with the involvement of police and prosecutors. This cooperation is very close. We agree each year on priorities for the fight against crime. Within great limits, they have already been agreed in the Declaration of Laulasmaa by two current honourable members of the Riigikogu who were ministers at the time. This is Rein Lang and Kalle Laane. Now, if you look at your question being raised, I would like to rephrase it a little, in the light of the law of law adopted yesterday. If you break the law of law, you'll see who's responsible for public order. The person responsible for public order shall be himself/herself. Of course, as we approach crime, if a person does not commit a crime, there is no crime. Of course, the fight against crime and the resolution of crime are the responsibility of the state. Very many factors play a role in this, not only in the wages you referred to, but certainly in many other factors. The prevention work, however, is one where the results are significant when channelling the resource. I can give you an example of the release of the detainees. If we have placed prisoners under probation and they have also been able to provide support, as I said, only ten of the 200 former inmates have committed a new crime. The average overall relapse rate, however, was 38% in 2012 as a whole, then for persons who have been released on time. So effective cooperation, including crime prevention, will certainly help to reduce crime. When we are talking about helping people who have committed a crime and have been punished, and the penalty has been such that they have been sent to a detention facility, it is certainly my wish to see that we have more recourse to probation and thus to early release in Estonia. We should not be afraid of it, as we unfortunately fear it now.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-20_U14	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-20_U15	Thank you, Minister. My question is about tax evasion and tax fraud. If you look at a figure that reflects the bill of registered crimes, we can see that in 2008 there were 35 major non-payment offences. It's been a little reduced over the years, but last year we reached more or less the same level. It is known that there are many tax frauds in the Estonian country, and it is also the case that not only money is not paid to the state, but it is also cheated out of the state. Many companies use certain gaps in Estonian law. And these are not tens of millions of euros, but hundreds of millions of euros that have been lost. Why is the government so slow about changing certain laws? And what actions are expected to reduce the number of such crimes?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-20_U16	Tax crimes, as well as professional crimes, are certainly of a very latent nature. These are hidden crimes and they are difficult to fight. If you look at the statistics, it doesn't show the real picture. In statistics, we see the number of registered economic crimes, and this largely depends on the number of people reporting fraud. That's the signal they're gonna start looking into. When we talk about tax fraud, it is mostly the Tax and Customs Board that conducts the procedure as an investigative body. He'll identify the fraud. Now we have really started to quietly reach the figures on tax fraud, which marked the state of affairs during the economic crisis. In particular, this means that the work of the Tax and Customs Board has been enhanced and that it is able to detect more fraud. I repeat, there is a very clear link between the discovery of tax fraud and the resource allocated to it. We don't have any problems with the laws at the moment. The regulation on tax fraud, both in criminal law and in tax law, is quite sufficient to bring people to justice. Above all, the question is how well tax behaviour can be changed and tax fraud detected. The Minister of Finance has also repeatedly said that if the financial capacity of the Tax and Customs Board increases, more fraudsters can be caught. In 2013, the government made a clear decision and allocated a significant additional amount to the Estonian Tax and Customs Board in order to increase its investigative capacity.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-20_U17	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-20_U18	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, first of all, thank you very much for your review. I am pleased that you, as former Minister of Social Affairs, know very well the problems of the social system and also keep an eye on the law on child protection. But one concern is that funding for women's shelters is project-based. This does not provide sufficient planning for work in the very long term. After all, students who have dropped out of school, domestic violence, all of this contributes to crime. The uncertainty about the future of asylum providers has often come up at meetings where this concern has been addressed with social workers. Can you tell me if there's anything more secure coming up with this funding?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-20_U19	I very much hope that the Ministry of Social Affairs will take the decisions made at the Ministry of Justice this year as an example. We announced a two-year free legal aid competition. This help is directed at people who find it difficult to cope with themselves. This is also project-based, but such certainty is very important for the institutions and NGOs that provide the service. As a result, they can make longer-term contracts. The same is true of women's shelters. When I look at the results of the competition signed in the Ministry of Justice the day before yesterday, I see that not only are the Association of Lawyers and the NGO Legal Aid Centre among the recipients of the funds, but also organisations dealing with people with disabilities and with occupational diseases. My only suggestion is that our legal environment allows framework agreements to be concluded, and that is what could happen. If you don't want it for three or four years, you could do it for a couple of years. Couple of years is a pretty long deadline. The Ministry of Justice has set an example, we hope that other ministries will follow it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-20_U20	Olga Soldier, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-20_U21	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I'd like to ask you about the drug crimes. When I look at the statistics that are here, I see that the number of drug crimes has not decreased lately, rather it has increased. The number of drug users is also very high. Consequently, I have a question: do you think that our very strict policy will produce the results that we want to see? Drug crime and the number of drug users have not decreased. Other countries have started to go a different way, experimenting with other measures to combat drug crime. For example, at the World Economic Forum meeting, there was last one discussion involving Kofi Annan, who said that he believed that drugs had destroyed many people, but governments' policies have destroyed even more. Hence my question: do you think that we should change something in our anti-drug policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-20_U22	Thank you. In the fight against drug-related crime, significant changes have already taken place over the last few years. There's a lot more resources in there. But I'll tell you a joke, I'll give you an example of health care. In England, it was discussed that the number of bed days in the infirmary was too high and how to fight it. This figure was achieved very quickly in one year by calling inpatient care beds outpatient care beds. In statistics, the picture got really pretty. I mean, it could be a parallel with a joke that we call things around: the drug is no longer a drug, and the number of drug crimes is falling. But this is not an acceptable solution in any way. The fight against drugs and crime related to them must undoubtedly focus primarily on breaking down supply chains. The removal of small dealers from the street will certainly produce a one-off effect, but the consequence is that 25% of prisoners in Estonian prisons are currently drug-related people. If we really want to talk about a substantive and effective fight against drugs, then we need to break down the supply chains. If we come specifically to your question, I think that recent changes have been quite necessary. If I misunderstood you, I'm sorry, but if you mean by changes in the legal order, for example, the legalization of a milder drug or something like that, I certainly will not support that. For example, we need to take a very small step forward from the use of cannabis to reach strong drugs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-20_U23	Rannar Vasiliev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-20_U24	Thank you. Good minister! I understand from what you said, when it comes to tax fraud, we're fine with the law. Rather, it is a question of the ability of the tax administration and of a small resource to detect and reduce fraud. Do I draw the right conclusion from this reasoning that, in this context, we could reject the draft law amending the VAT Act and the Accounting Act, which talks about the need to declare invoices of at least EUR 1000, and there is no need to change the principles concerning the input tax on passenger cars? Wouldn't these changes really be necessary in this context?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-20_U25	That is not the correct conclusion. They are still needed; they are primarily aimed at improving tax behaviour. On both issues, I do not see much connection between criminal law and criminal procedure. If persons fail to pay taxes on a criminal basis, it is possible to punish them in criminal law and in criminal proceedings, nothing will prevent them from proceeding. These two legislative amendments are primarily aimed at improving people's payment behaviour, but, in criminal and criminal proceedings, there are opportunities to detect and deal with such infringements.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-20_U26	Kalle Jents, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-20_U27	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister, thank you for your constructive presentation. You noted, among other things, a large number of arrests and long average deadlines. You also indicated that there were planned legislative changes that would soon come to Parliament. Would you like to comment with a few sentences on what these legislative changes are all about? Do they relate only to the time limits for holding custody, or are the time limits for pre-trial investigations as such also the subject of the discussion?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-20_U28	We have set up a working group composed of highly respected criminal law and criminal justice specialists. Jaan Ginter, the dean of the Faculty of Law of the University of Tartu, who carried out the analysis requested by us, as well as representatives of the Bar Association, is included. There are still people from the university, but since the group is pretty big, I'm not going to count them all. The question, which is precisely being asked, cannot now be answered definitively. I can tell you my subjective opinion about where we could end up with it. I believe that the analysis of Jaan Ginter also made it very clear that the maximum length of detention allowed should be reduced. It's six months now. The wording of the law has failed: the law says that the person will be arrested for up to six months. As a rule, arrest decisions do not indicate the length of time a person is taken into custody. The court does not state that a person is allowed to be arrested for, for example, only two months. Everything depends on the length of the criminal investigation and on the process of the criminal investigation, whether the person can be released before the six months have elapsed. Consequently, the first step is certainly to reduce the overall detention period to at least four months. The question is also whether to make detention deadlines multi-stage. I believe that this could be seriously considered. Division into several stages would mean that, as a rule, a person can be taken into custody first for two weeks or one month, depending on how we reach an agreement in this Chamber. From there on, the prosecutor has a duty to go and apply for an extension. If justified, custody can be extended for up to four months. And if there are particularly difficult cases, there is also the right to apply, with the permission of the Attorney General, for further detention. It's a point of dispute whether or not to move forward from four months. But the problem of time limits for criminal investigations could be solved in essence. If we bring into law the division into such stages, then the defendant and the prosecutor will be obliged to ascertain within the first two weeks or months whether the arrest is justified or not. It also makes it clear whether the fundamental rights of a person are to be violated so much that they have to be held in custody for a long time or whether it is more appropriate to release them from custody. The pressure on the rapid completion of the pre-trial investigation will certainly increase considerably and maybe then there is no need to set a separate deadline for the pre-trial investigation. But I certainly don't rule that out either. Perhaps it is necessary to set a deadline for criminal investigations, just as it has ever been in Estonia. This needs to be considered.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-20_U29	Rein Lang, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-20_U30	Thank you, manager. Good Hanno, first of all, full recognition for this summary book, which is extremely concise. And thank you so much for addressing special school issues in your presentation. I myself had to deal with it for six years, and this was about constantly convincing the Ministry of Education to do something about it. Unfortunately, the result was only a parking ticket received in Tartu. Please now try to dispel my suspicion that special schools are still not a priority in the Ministry of Education at all. And if my suspicion is unfounded, maybe you can describe what steps they've taken to remedy the situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-20_U31	I believe that recent events in Tapa Special School have, unfortunately in a very unpleasant way, focused the special school topic on the Ministry of Education. Why do I dare say that? This is based on the promise made by a good colleague in national broadcasting that Tapa Special School will be renovated. As I said in my speech, it is not enough to work successfully with young people in special school, just good specialists. A normal physical environment is also needed, and its creation may have to start. In the case of Tapa, we have undoubtedly stayed too long to stumble upon the concern that the physical environment there does not even call for young people to grow around for a gram. The pictures of the project were shown in the national broadcasting, even the dates when new houses could be completed. How is it going to happen and whether there will be substantial work at all, isn't that what time will show, this is the next stage. This next step should be reflected in one way or another in the new Act on Minor Influences and the new Child Protection Act. These two components will be developed together with the Child Protection Act, which I hope will be on Parliament's desk this year, and the Minor Sanctions Act. I hope the Ministry of Education is on schedule with their work, and they can come out with them. So we need to change the legal environment and the physical environment. The question now is how much Tapa can continue with the current staff and what needs to be changed in teaching to improve the situation of other special schools. But we have to be optimists.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-20_U32	Väino Linde, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-20_U33	Thank you, manager. I, too, thank the Minister for a good report. However, I am asking against the background that we are in the process of a criminal review of sanctions and crime formations. The course is quite rightly in the direction of relaxation. There was a meeting in our group this morning with representatives of the tax administration as well as a number of business leaders. It hatched that today's penalties for tax crimes are often not such as to give a direct signal that they do not need to be committed. A fine of some hundred euros may not lead a person in the right direction. Is it seriously intended that there might be a need to tighten up sanctions for tax crime?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-20_U34	I believe you know very well that the review of penal law sought a systematic review of all areas. The aim was for comparable crimes to be penalised in a comparable way. In a very large number of cases, the penalties for legal persons were tightened up so that the limit was raised to EUR 32000. There is a question of the limit between wrongdoing and crime. When developing Estonian law, we are forced to think about whether there should be some sort of interim option, in which case the matter would be dealt with quickly and effectively, as in the case of misdemeanour, but the penalty for the offence would be a very large fine. The review of penal law raised this problem. Since we did not want to put an end to the review of criminal law because of this obstacle, we agreed that the revision of penal law would come to Parliament and that the mechanism of sanctions for the financial and competition sectors would be discussed in the Ministry of Justice this year. Hopefully, this year we'll be able to do the job. Perhaps, with these changes, we can still get ahead of the current Parliament. If it doesn't, then it's up to the next term. However, I believe that the financial and competition sectors need such an interim option in the form of urgent procedures and severe financial penalties. This is actually what the European Union is calling for. At the moment, we are in some conflict with the European Union that the financial penalties prescribed by the European Union for certain financial crimes are more severe when we have the maximum penalty for misdemeanour. But these cases are treated as misdemeanours, and consequently such an interim option would be required. I myself strongly advocate that we have effective penalty rates for the financial and competition sectors, but these cases will be dealt with much faster than long and dragging criminal proceedings.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-20_U35	Minister, thank you very much for your presentation and your answers. No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? I'm opening negotiations. I would like to ask Marko Pomerants, representative of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, to the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-20_U36	Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not asking for any extra time, but I'm going to stop at a few keywords. First of all, the report by the Minister of Justice was boring, but in a good way. The situation simply evolves along its own path as policies are implemented, but on the other hand, at least people who think that Estonia is standing still cannot agree in this area. If you look at the same statistical book on Crime in Estonia in 2013 and at what has happened in 20 years or 10 years, you can say that the situation has obviously improved. People stay alive more, behave better. At the same time, this statistical book reveals such interesting misfortunes that the most likely children are in Saaremaa and the largest degrees in Hiiumaa. It's probably a one-year deviation. But I am pleased to say that the situation has improved in Lääne-Virumaa and Rakvere. Now, from a couple of three draft laws the Minister has already stopped on. There was a question about the further progress of the draft Penal Code. The problems that have arisen before the Commission since the first reading are broadly divided into five groups. We have started over, and the changes in the general part have been more or less reviewed, which does not mean that we have already formulated some fundamental decision. However, we will have another debate over the same line of wrongdoing: how much is right. Let's call in the parties. One set of problems could be entered in the keyword of the varia. I dare say that every authority has its own administrative problems, and we're going through this shadow at the same time. Kirgi has been fueled by issues relating to intellectual property and competition crimes. Hopefully, in April, we will come to the conclusion that we are bringing together the current state of play on competition crimes. So much from the Code of Misdemeanor Procedure that, as you remember, its first reading is over. The Committee on Legal Affairs visited the people of the Supreme Court last summer and we agreed that, in the case of such procedural laws, we will look at the matter together, and in the near future, this Code of Misdemeanour Procedure will also be before us. Valeri has, in the meantime, managed to go on other business, but for her and others to know so much that everything that happens in the field of the Ministry of Internal Affairs will be before us next week, when the Republic of Estonia has become a year older. The Minister of the Interior will speak in the framework of the 'Principles of Estonia's Security Policy until 2015' action plan about the results for 2013. So get ready for this debate. As regards the discussions on the Code of Criminal Procedure, people in the working group tend to think that a new comprehensive text should be drawn up. At the same time, apart from lengthy discussions, it has also been concluded that one aspect or another could, in principle, be changed, but the existing option also works. Of course, by updating the Code of Criminal Procedure, our greatest enemy is not Raivo Time, who has never been an enemy. I am thinking about how far these issues are being discussed and what can still be dealt with here during the composition of this Riigikogu. We've started an arrest on the subject, as far as we can get, that's what time tells us. Have a nice weekend! There will then be a debate on security policy in the next week.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-20_U37	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu for a chair of speech from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party Igor Gräzini!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-20_U38	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, If you are presented with such a systematic review, no matter how hard you work, your own is anarchic, systemless, and confusing. I can't think of anything more systemic than that. That is why I am simply drawing attention to some of the points that were mentioned in the main report, and I am also repeating what Mr Rein Lang was talking about. This book is small in size, but intellectually and sociologically it is actually an extremely powerful piece that gives an exhaustive picture of the problems we are discussing today. I'll ask for three more minutes, just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-20_U39	Yes, please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-20_U40	I'll name a few moments. One of the issues on which we could start now is the time limits for pre-trial and judicial proceedings. The Minister answered the question, but he did not draw attention to one aspect, which is nevertheless important from the point of view of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Indeed, the time limits for criminal investigations and pre-trial proceedings are strictly linked to how long a person can be put on a playback without you doing anything to him at all. You can now close for six months, and these six months are the top limit for a detective and a parole officer. During this time, something must be done. And they usually do after it's been five months and three weeks. The idea of long deadlines for criminal investigations and proceedings is not to hold people captive and violate their human rights. They are designed to put the police, the prosecutor's office, the state's law enforcement and investigation authorities to work properly. You don't have to put a man away every time, you don't have to hold him for six months. There are also all kinds of other barriers and means. When we are talking about shortening deadlines, we do not mean the problem that a person is in prison for six months, but that a person is sometimes on trial for ten years. Villu Reiljan is likely to set a record in this area. In fact, I stress that the crime incriminating to Villu Reiljan is probably one of the simplest in the history of Estonia and civilization at all. It'll take two or three weeks, and it'll all be clear. But just didn't say, the articles of the Estonian Express were written, and that thing went to the skin. Now, there's a subject involved. Indeed, it is very dangerous and poor that we have twice as many prisoners as we could have in the middle. All right, that's our criminal policy. But worse is the second number Hanno said: 76% of them sit from so-called clock to clock. It actually means that one day, when a person is at the gate of a prison, he will be back in the world he couldn't live in. He doesn't have a family, he probably doesn't have a home to go to anymore, he doesn't know how to look for a job, his income, or financial resources, is extremely limited. It's a situation in which an angel alone doesn't become a relapser. At the same time, we do not have any kind of probation and social help to help these people rehabilitate in a world where normal people find it very difficult to live, especially outside Tallinn. They're not getting any help. A little of the crimes against the person. It was said that domestic violence has become a common form of crime in the case of crimes against individuals. True, we have women's shelters. A week ago, the BBC published in one of his shows that there are 1,200 women's shelters in London where they can spend the night when someone threatens to attack them. There are 1,200 women's shelters in London and less than 800 men's shelters! I am afraid that the same ratio can also characterise Estonia's situation, and there is no precise information about it. I mean, there's nowhere to go for men who don't beat less than women. The pubs are closed, the football isn't there, and that's how they stay on the street. We are taking domestic violence as if from one aspect only. Another type of domestic violence I have talked about with several constables, especially here in Tallinn, are dysfunctional families. This is the so-called Kalevipoeg theme. A man travels to Finland for two or three weeks, comes back here, gets drunk. The first two nights, she's fine, but after that, normal relationships are gonna come back, and then she's gonna beat her so help. This is a completely different social situation, where it is not the standard violence of a living family, but it is the absence of normal marriage relationships in the family. One family member is actually a stranger who occasionally attends and to whom the part of the family who stays at home tends to get nervous. And the last two minutes are left. We were talking about corruption and conflict of interest. They may not exist in a very harsh way. Corruption and conflicts of interest are, unfortunately, more widespread than we notice. I can start going by institution and county and give examples. What's the typical, standard corruption-case? For example, a public official, in particular an inspector or some sort of specialist, will be trained in the area he controls. If you want the fire inspector to accept your construction site, you will have to order three lectures from him on the history of the Tallinn Firearms Orchestra and do not know what else. Everything goes around the corner somehow. The trickiest thing about this whole thing is you're not ordering a lecture from him, you're ordering a lecture from a company. But the night you go to the lecture, you'll see it's the same guy who came to see you the other day. Actually, it's a much more massive problem than it looks. This, too, is one of the types of corruption, although not very harsh. I am not saying that these are such horrible people or the like, but this is also corruption, which, in my opinion, undermines the authority of the state, especially the state inspectorates, now most. I could talk for eight more minutes, but I'm out of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-20_U41	Thank you very much. Please beg the representative of the Estonian Central Party Group of the speech chair of the Riigikogu Peeter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-20_U42	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, When it comes to criminal policy, I would like to make three brief points. These are the criminal liability of a legal person, a company, criminal proceedings in general and the criminal policy of minors. I'll start with the criminal liability of the legal person. Estonia accepted the criminal liability of the legal person with the entry into force of the Penal Code on 1 September 2005. Until then, only a natural person could be the perpetrator of the crime. According to § 14 of the current Penal Code, the legal person is responsible, in the cases provided for by law, for the act committed by its body, its member, its manager or the competent representative for the benefit of the legal person. In practice, the circle of those persons is very wide, ranging from any person who has the right to represent a legal person in relations with third parties. Under the current law, legal persons can be held liable for nearly 170 criminal offences. With this change, the number will increase. At the same time, as the lawyer Jaan Sootak and the advisor of the Supreme Court, Elina Elkind, have said in one of her writings, it must be borne in mind that when we talk about the nature of the legal person and his responsibility, we inevitably come to the conclusion that the legal person lacks the hands to put bribes in the official's pocket or something like that. Thus, the fact that the offence is committed remains, in addition to the responsibility of the legal person, a completely ordinary human being of flesh and bone. The liability of a legal person shall not preclude the liability of the natural person who committed the offence. Practice lawyers and other persons in legal contact have commented on the situation that will arise in the future as a substantive money pumping mechanism that will be implemented by the Treasury. At this point, any national envoy in the Chamber may wonder why coalition parties took such a decision. The second issue I will briefly mention is criminal proceedings. In 2012, the Centre Party issued a large bill in the Riigikogu, which highlighted the views of Estonian criminal proceedings and conflicts with several judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. Although the bill has come to an end in the deep drawers of coalition ambassadors, it has been of some use. In particular, the Ministry of Justice has convened a working group on criminal proceedings, where people from different offices are represented, ranging from prosecutors to lawyers. Various topics of Estonian criminal proceedings have been addressed. But now I will briefly describe to you an event that characterises our current criminal policy from a certain point of view. Namely, a deeply religious IT specialist took hitchhikers on his car. The voters stole a laptop and tablet computer in the back seat of an IT specialist's car. The person who was the victim of the theft reported it to the police. Since he worked at the certification center, it was not just theft of the thing, but it was important information for him that needed to be recovered as a matter of urgency. Unfortunately, police research mills are working slowly. It was for this reason that the person agreed to buy back the tablet from the thieves. The victim, of course, also informed the police about the buy-back. The police's response was surprising: the opposite situation arose. Instead of spending resources on finding thieves, criminal proceedings were brought against the person himself. A search was carried out at his home, located in a monastery. In addition, everything else that belongs to it, just like the handcuffs in the movie, the baton, was held for 48 hours as a suspect. Thus, one direction of Estonian criminal policy can be described as follows: no matter what, someone must be convicted. It is also clear from this case that everything that is not prohibited for investigators is allowed in their opinion. It's not like that. Thirdly and finally, I want to talk about the case of Tapa Special School. We can't put our heads in the sand anymore and pretend we're okay. No, it's not! We urgently need a new special school with good staff. In theory, children who have committed an offence must not be treated as sinful adults, but must be given special emphasis on educating them. I agree. However, there is currently no place in the Republic of Estonia where children who need such special treatment can be educated. I'm done with that. These three are serious issues that should be considered and discussed by both opposition and coalition ambassadors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-20_U43	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. I will certainly also pass on my thanks to the Minister of Justice, the Ministry and our Committee on Legal Affairs for this review. The second item is closed. Good fellows, our hearing is closed. I thank you and wish you the strength of your work! Closure of the sitting at 11.09 a.m.
