ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the 10th working week Tuesday session of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, I have a draft of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the 'Constitution of a Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Institutions' of the Riigikogu. I think this is a very good bill. In particular, we intend to propose the appointment of Mr Siim Kisler as a member of this special committee and Mr Ken-Marti Vaher as an alternate member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U3	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U4	Madam President! On behalf of myself and five other members of the Riigikogu, I will report an inquiry to the Minister of Justice Andres Anvelt. The subject of this inquiry is the extradition of citizens to other countries. I would briefly remind you that in November 2011, Estonian and United States legal guardians organised an operation in which several persons were arrested. They all went to trial. The unexpected was that m. On December 20, 2008, Harju County Court acquitted all persons detained. That means no guilt was found. The problem, however, is that some of them have already decided to extradite them to the United States. I want to discuss this with the Minister of Justice. Why was it decided to extradite the aforementioned Estonian citizens to the United States before the Harju County Court had made its decision? Is that normal behavior? There are a few more questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U5	Thank you. Please, Karel Knight!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U6	Hello! On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I will hand over two drafts. First of all, the draft decision of the Riigikogu to amend the decision of the Riigikogu 'Construction of the Special Committee on State Budget Control', which appoints Ms Marianne Mikko as an alternate member of the Special Committee on State Control in place of Neeme Suur and Ms Tatjana Jaanson as an alternate member. The draft also provides for the appointment of Mr Jüri Morozov as an alternate member of the Commission in place of Mr Urve Palo, Mr Maimu Berg. Secondly, I hand over the Riigikogu's decision to amend the Riigikogu's decision 'Construction of the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Institutions' to appoint Mr Tiit Tammsar as a member of the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities and Mr Karel Rüütli as an alternate member of Mr Jaan Õunapuu instead of Mr Heljo Pikhof as an alternate member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U7	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U8	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Central Party Group, I have the honour to present an inquiry to the Minister of Health and Labour, Urmas Kruus. I will briefly describe its contents. We have quite a lot of talk about the work of labour dispute committees; there was also a debate on this issue in this Chamber yesterday. I'll give you an example of life. A person works in a company where wages are not paid for months. In order to protect his or her rights, he or she has the opportunity to turn to a labour dispute committee where a person usually gets a right. However, there is nothing to do with this right if the employer still fails to fulfil his obligations. To deal with such situations, our law gives an employee the right to appeal to a bailiff in order to initiate a forced execution. But it's not a magic wand either, because if the company doesn't have any money, it's not likely that wages will be paid if they are enforced. The sequence of events described above lasts several good months. During this period, a person has no income at all and has no right to apply to the unemployment fund for help. However, in order to initiate bankruptcy proceedings, the court usually requires a deposit, i.e. an advance payment of approximately EUR 650, which clearly exceeds the amount of the deposit. The unfair situation that has arisen has been referred to by the Chancellor of Justice, who has found that people have been wronged and that ministries have to develop a solution that takes the public interest into account. That is why we are asking Urmas Kruus questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U9	On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted three draft laws. The Management Board decides to accept them in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. I have also accepted two inquiries on behalf of the Riigikogu's management board. If they comply with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu shall forward them to the addressee without delay. Let's go to the messages. First of all, Wednesday, s. On 9 April, the following members of government will attend Question Time: Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, Minister of Defence Sven Mikser and Minister of Foreign Affairs Urmas Paet. Secondly, in connection with the resignation of Urmas Klaas, a member of the Riigikogu, Margus Lepik became a member of the Riigikogu today. Thirdly, the Board of the Riigikogu has registered the members of the Riigikogu as members of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Tatiana Jaanson and Maimu Berg. Fourthly, the Management Board of the Riigikogu has approved the following changes in the membership of committees: Lauri Vahtre has taken the place of a member of the Committee on European Union Affairs, Tatjana Jaanson has taken the position of a member of the Committee on Rural Affairs and Maimu Berg has taken the place of a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. Currently 89 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, 12 are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U10	Let's start working on the items on today's agenda. The first item is the second reading of the draft amendment to § 5 of the State Family Benefits Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. For a presentation, please address the Vice-Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, Margus Tsahkna!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U11	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Today, the second reading of the draft amendment to § 5 of the State Family Benefits Act will take place. The issue of raising universal child benefits has been at issue in this Chamber in the last three years, but also before that very seriously. We have repeatedly discussed a number of drafts; they have traditionally been submitted by the Socialists or the Centre Party, but we have not reached decisions. I hope that today is the day when we can decide something too, because it seems to me that there has been a consensus on raising child benefits in this Chamber over the last month. The Reform Party, which was previously part of the coalition, has also clearly changed its mind and decided that an increase in universal child benefits is necessary. The last time universal child benefits were raised in 2004 was by the Juhan Parts-led government. At the time, child benefit was increased to EUR 19,18, i.e. child benefit was doubled. On 14 April 2011, the Social Democratic Party submitted draft Act No 11 amending § 5 of the State Family Benefits Act, the first reading of which was completed on 16 June 2011. This draft provides for universal child benefits to be paid at a six-fold rate, i.e. to increase these allowances from EUR 19.18 to EUR 57.54. The cost of this draft, according to the numbers produced by the initiators, is 109 million euros. However, since a number of laws on family and child allowances have been adopted in this Chamber in the meantime (e.g. the third and each next child's allowance will be increased to almost EUR 100 since 1 January 2015 and we have put in place a need-based family benefit system), the cost of this draft has decreased, but we are still talking about an amount of EUR 100 million. The Committee on Social Affairs prepared a second reading at its meeting on 11 March 2014. No amendments were received by the earlier deadline of 4 July 2011. At its meeting on 11 March 2014, representatives of the initiators provided the Social Committee with more recent information on the beneficiaries of family benefits. According to the information provided, the first child's allowance is granted in 158585 families. The share of family benefits in GDP is currently 0.5%. The debate at the meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs focused on whether it would be appropriate to increase universal child benefits or whether it would be necessary to focus only on families in need and improve the conditions for granting and paying family allowances based on needs. There were also sources of cover for the draft and therefore the opinion was sought from the Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Riigikogu. The Committee on Social Affairs decided to propose one amendment and amend the text of the draft. This amendment was necessary because of the laws that we have adopted in the meantime and which I mentioned earlier. The amendment is as follows: The initiators wished to amend section 5 (3) of the State Family Benefits Act in such a way that child benefit would be paid for each child at six times the rate of child benefit. However, after completion of the first reading of the draft, section 5 (3) of the State Family Benefits Act has been recast. According to this paragraph, as of 1 January 2015, the child allowance payable to the third and to each subsequent child of the family will rise. This allowance will be paid at a rate of 10 times the amount of child benefit, i.e. almost EUR 100 per month. The amendment tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs raises the child benefit paid to the first and second children three times and these children will receive six times the child benefit. The amendment takes account of the already agreed increase in family benefits, and the third and subsequent children of the family receive child benefit at ten times the rate of child benefit. The amendment also regulates the time of entry into force of the law and enters into force on 1 January 2015. The Social Affairs Committee decided to send the draft to second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 8 April. We have a proposal to conclude the second reading of the draft (with 6 members of the Social Affairs Committee in favour). The Committee on Social Affairs also decided that if the second reading is completed in this Chamber today, the third reading of the draft could take place on 10 April. If we come back to the content of the draft and ask why we have not already raised universal child support, this has been largely due to different perceptions. The former Prime Minister and our current colleague, Andrus Ansip, have also said in this Chamber that raising universal child benefits is not an effective way of sharing money, almost equivalent to sowing money from an airplane, and it would make sense to focus on those children who need help. However, universal child support has not been raised for ten years, and now, in my understanding, there has been political consensus, universal child support has been agreed to be raised by all the parties represented in this Chamber. Looking at the financial opportunities, yesterday, a new economic forecast was published, according to which the country expects growth of only 2% instead of the previous 3.6% this year. However, when we look at the new coalition agreement, we see that the promises that have been made there require a great deal of money. The question arises as to whether it is possible to implement these promises by taking a responsible view of monetary policy. As Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, I say that the Social Affairs Committee brought this draft into this Chamber because there is a political will to raise child support. The question is rather that the new coalition should review every other place in which money goes out of the budget when it comes to budgeting, for example, the 1% reduction in income tax. As Chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, I would like us to conclude the second reading of the draft today and to be able to decide on an increase in child benefits at the third reading on Thursday of this week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U12	Thank you very much. There are questions for the waitress. Please, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U13	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague! At the end of your speech, you discussed the financial possibilities, hence my question. What is the current estimate, what is the expected financial coverage when this draft comes into force as a law? Secondly, if this bill really should find support in the Riigikogu Hall today and enter into force as a law, how much is its actual financial cover and from what sources could it come from, should it be taken from additional reserves, it should be built on a loan or there is some other third way?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U14	Thank you, good questioner! The cost of this draft is in the order of EUR 100 million per year. I very much hope that the number of children will increase in the future, but in fact it is now shrinking. This amount is calculated by the current number of children. The Committee on Social Affairs is not the committee that can say exactly where this money should come from. But as a politician, I can say that if there is a political will and the political will that universal child support needs to be raised, all political parties have expressed their voice openly, then steps must also be taken. We have heard the new coalition speak in public about the sources of its promises. To be honest, I am not going to defend and justify these sources here, or to say them out. But it is precisely yesterday's published economic forecast that says that the expectation of economic growth has been reduced from 3.6% to 2%, not yet taking into account the events in Ukraine, which will certainly affect the economies of both Estonia and the countries around us through Russia. It means it's going to be a difficult time. If we look at the figures that all these election promises of the new coalition contain, then it is obvious that the budget balance will go away and the state will live on reserves. This worries me as a politician, and also as Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, because we need to make our spending sustainably. I think this debate is the right place to talk a little bit more about the subject. In my opinion, it is not sustainable to reduce personal income tax by 1% next year; we should reverse this decision and support children and families with children with money. This has always been a socialist talk here. It makes sense today to look at the economic forecast.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U15	Thank you. Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U16	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Indeed, I am very pleased that the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance also agree that universal child support should be increased. In this Chamber, many politicians from your party have spoken about need-based family allowances and not about giving support to all children. But it's too bad this change of heart came so late. We presented this draft for the first time in 2011. We have done this many more times later. During the debate on the state budget, we have raised this issue several times, but we were rather ridiculed for having held night meetings, as if it weren't important. Now in the government coalition, we have found money to raise child support. You can say that everything depends on priorities. In the past, when we put forward some drafts on children, the answer was always that there would be a development plan and a green paper, but no one spoke about the money.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U17	Thank you. You made a lot of claims. I agree with the recent increase in universal child support by the government run by the IRL. Juhan Parts was prime minister when they were doubled. This was a fundamental and big step back then. I would like to remind you that this was done not just before the elections, but right after power. In this sense, it was not a matter of attracting families with children, but a decision of substance. I am pleased that the Social Democrats once presented the draft that we are discussing today. I would like to point out that the first reading of this draft has been completed, which was not voted out of the procedure. So today this bill is in front of us. I really hope that the Social Democrats will stick to their positions. I am also pleased that the new coalition has prioritised and agreed on raising child benefits. We did not reach such decisions in the previous coalition, but I think it is quite a step forward that we increased the support for the third and each next child to almost EUR 100 and introduced a need-based family support that the new coalition intends to increase. This system has been implemented, and now it is necessary to put more money in it so that people who, apart from child and family benefits, need to receive needs-based support from it can actually benefit from it. If we look at where we come from, it is clear that in 2011 we had clearly marked the country through a very deep economic crisis. It's better now. As Chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, I am concerned that the proposals of the new coalition, which are all very good (raising child benefits, reducing income tax by 1%, lowering unemployment insurance contributions, wage increases, restoring funeral support, offering free food in upper secondary school), are enormously numerous. We actually know where that money is taken from. Let me give you a specific example. At first, it was hidden, but now it has come out: the third stage of the implementation of the maternity pension is abandoned. If you look at your own documents, where you have written down the government's work programme, you will see that it will not be postponed, but in 2018 you will not really allocate money for it. 200,000 mothers should have made it through the middle of 120 euros per month for raising children from 1 January 2015, but you are taking away this money. I think these are not social policy measures and they are not good news to send to society.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U18	Thank you. For the sake of the stenogram, I would like to make it clear that you are currently the vice-chairman of the Social Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U19	Oh, I'm sorry! [[Laughter.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U20	Please, Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U21	Thank you. To clarify the previous discussion, the average amount of maternity pension taken from each pensioner's mother is EUR 120 per year, so EUR 360 over three years. But now my question. The Committee on Social Affairs discussed this issue at the time of the new coalition. There was then a very strong message that, according to estimates, calculations and forecasts, money would be available for a significant increase in child benefits. In this knowledge, the debate in the Committee on Social Affairs also took place. Now more precise sources of cover have been mentioned, some of them are eyebrowing, and some have already been brought to attention here. I ask you, as the long-standing chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, of the current vice-chairman, whether you consider it ethical and honest to allow the advertising of gambling, or Estonian Loto, and to try to raise child support by helping people to play more gambling and so to collect more money from them.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U22	Thank you, good questioner! In the Committee on Social Affairs, we have been discussing how to free people from all forms of addiction. In my opinion, this desperate desire for money to be scraped together can be demonstrated by the fact that, in some ways, gambling is now also being supported. Surely this is not the right direction to go in, I fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U23	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U24	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! The explanatory memorandum states that at present the share of family benefits in GDP is 0.5%. Can you answer what this share will become when this bill enters into force as a law? For the sake of the stenogram, I also ask you to give me exact figures. Ten or six times the rate won't say anything to a common citizen. I understand the coalition has promised to increase child support to EUR 45, but it looks like there's gonna be a little more money now. What's the amount?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U25	Thank you. The initiator simply added the current percentage of family allowances in the explanatory memorandum, because when the draft was launched, 2011 was the year and this proportion was different. Now it's 0.5%. I don't have a calculation of what it's going to be. But for the sake of the verbatim report, I have already said that if this draft becomes a law, child benefit will increase from EUR 19.18 to EUR 57.54. The new coalition has promised to increase child support, if I am not mistaken, to EUR 45.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U26	Thank you. Please, Sven Sester, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U27	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I come back to the question of Heljo Pikhof. He mentioned needs-based family allowances and universal child allowances. I, too, must admit, am still of the opinion that we should rather be guided by the necessity, as Andrus Ansip has said. If a political decision is made and additional money is invested in this sector, I would exponentially increase the need-based support. That's my understanding. Laine Randjärv has said that maybe someone will voluntarily pay back the support they receive, and Aivar Sõerd has said that maybe banks should voluntarily pay tax on their profits. This "optional" is a two-way thing. That's where my question comes from. In this situation, where we are an economic forecast is not what we have expected and hoped for, perhaps the second reading of the responsible draft would be interrupted today and we would not be able to introduce child benefits in the amount we would like? I don't think it's responsible to move on like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U28	Thank you. As Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs (I really apologise for being wrong earlier, but when we dealt with this draft, I was still chairman of the committee) I would like to say that the problem is that there is too little money to support children and families. Every step that increases this money is only positive. As far as measures to improve the birth rate are concerned, I personally advocate that we support families with three or more children even more and more. All calculations show that after the birth of the third child, family spending is increasing considerably. Even if both parents work, the family lives on the poverty line or even below, looking at the income per family member. The most effective measure is to increase the universal child benefit for the third and each subsequent child. That's my personal opinion. As far as needs-based family support is concerned, this system has been implemented with very small amounts, but as I understand it, the current coalition has a plan to put more money into it. It was a great achievement that we excluded the need-based support from the calculation on the basis of which the payment of income support is decided. It is the children and families who receive income support that are in very great trouble. However, as regards the rise in universal child benefits, this is a historic moment: there is a consensus in this Chamber that they must be raised. These grants have not been raised for 10 years. It is such a universal measure. In my opinion, this is not so much a birth rate support measure, but it is aimed at helping children out of poverty. Since there is consensus and this was also expressed in the Committee on Social Affairs, I do not think that there should be support in this House today for the proposal to stop reading this draft if someone does it. The Committee on Social Affairs decided to propose the termination of the second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U29	Thank you. Please, Andrus Ansip!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U30	Thank you, Madam President. Good Margus! You have said that if there is political will, the resources will be found. But if the political will is stronger, is it possible to find more than EUR 100 million, and if there is a very strong political will, will it be possible to find even billions of euros? How many billion euros can be found with extreme political will? [[Laughter.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U31	Thank you, good questioner! I am pleased to answer the question of what is your first question in this Chamber as a member of the Riigikogu. We sat together in the Crocodile Commission when there was an economic crisis. I think everyone has a common understanding that the Estonian state is not the country that can simply print more money. We are such a small and open economy that we must consider the reality that is around us, we must consider the state of our society, the state of our economy and finances. The economic forecast published yesterday is not encouraging, the growth forecast has been reduced to 2%, but it is not, I dare say, everything else. I think that the forecast for August, on which the budget will actually be put together, will be even tougher. Of course, when it is decided to continue with responsible budgetary and financial policies, political will has its limits, at least in Estonia, perhaps nowhere else. It seems to me, looking at all the promises made by the new coalition together and also looking at the economic forecast that a clear direction has been taken to burn the reserves that have been collected so far. The figures show that the national reserves will decrease by EUR 327 million in three years, which is why we will make nearly a quarter of the reserves go down in the next three years if this coalition continues to do so. I think that Mr Ansip, as Prime Minister, would certainly not have allowed this to happen, but now we have the second prime minister and the second coalition and, unfortunately, this direction has been taken. With regard to raising child benefits, looking at the pride of the Minister of Finance, although he was still in the government office with cuts in February, and I must say that I will continue to trust Jürgen Ligi, I think that the money will be found for this.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U32	Thank you. Please, Heljo Pikhof, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U33	Honourable waitress! The agreement of the former government coalition stated that the birth rate should be 1.71 by 2015. Right now it's 1.58, a few years ago it was 1.64. Social Democrats have put forward a number of proposals to help reduce child poverty and social exclusion and perhaps to help increase the birth rate. But unfortunately, the former government coalition, which you belonged to, didn't find the money for it. The Social Committee has always given the reason that the development plan for children and families will be ready right away until 2020, the Green Papers will come and then action will be taken. So why the change of heart now?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U34	Thank you. I have good news, good questioner: this is the draft of the Social Democrats that we are discussing here. This is a very large and fundamental decision. The Social Democrats support this, I hope, even now. This bill has been pending for a long time. The previous coalition did a great deal to improve the situation of families as much as possible. We have nothing to be ashamed of. As I said, the third and next children's allowance has been increased to almost EUR 100, and needs-based family support has also been introduced. We have introduced a maternity pension which, unfortunately, is now being taken away from 200,000 mothers who have raised children and should be able to obtain this pension supplement on average of EUR 120 per year. Unfortunately, it is being taken away, and this is, of course, a very bad message. Population scientists have said that perhaps specific figures are not so important in influencing the birth rate, but rather a general message. Everything that is taken away means a negative and unstable message to mothers who raise children. I don't think that's good. Indeed, the Social Democrats have stood up for children and families, and today you have an excellent opportunity to vote in favour of your own draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U35	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U36	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Commission waitress, Child benefits are broadly divided so that EUR 170 million goes to the parent's salary, i.e. to raise the child for a period of 1.5 years, and the remaining EUR 100 million for the 16.5 year. I wonder how many parents will stay in Estonia after they have received their parental allowance. Do you have the statistics?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U37	I really do not have statistics on how many parents stay in Estonia after receiving their parental allowance and how many leave. You must have meant parental benefit. I don't know what to say, and I don't know if there's any data in that form. This needs to be examined separately.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U38	Thank you. Please, Priit Onion!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U39	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I am not sure that this Social Democrat draft, which you are reporting here and where everyone is trying to approach in the same way, is the best one. In my opinion, subsidies are a bit humiliating. Has it been discussed in the Committee that instead of paying benefits, the state could start granting benefits to families in order to value the family? This would be a completely different attitude if incentives were granted instead of support.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U40	Thank you, good questioner! I had to think about what benefits the country could make, in the sense that what services the country provides directly to families. Public services are still provided by municipalities. There is such a constant game between the municipalities and the state: if the state wants to assign any tasks to the local governments, the local governments refer to the Supreme Court's ruling that they must also be given an exact amount of money to do so. It's all behind it, actually. This brings us back to the subject of substantive administrative reform. All services provided, as well as the financial capacity of the municipalities, should be reviewed. But that's a very broad subject. In my opinion, it is more important to trust those who have decided to have children. They themselves know best how to raise children, and they must be given the means to do so. Of course, it is preferable for people to be able to work and well educated, to be able to go to work and pay enough for their work so that they can raise at least three, four or five children without getting into poverty. Surely the ideal model that we must strive for would be that we should not pay subsidies to anyone. But our society is not one where only the work can be done, nor is any other society around us. There are certainly weaker ones among us, those who are in an unequal situation compared to others, and they must be supported. This is a decision of solidarity. These people are supported by tax money, which is collected from all the people who pay taxes. I would like to say that the most difficult problem facing the Estonian state is that we must increase the birth rate and take care of our children. To do so, we must create conditions and this cannot be done without money. My own philosophy is that I trust parents first and foremost. I think that no decent parent prefers any of his leisure activities to the development of a child, rather the opposite.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U41	Thank you. Please, Jüri Jaanson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U42	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! When you introduced the bill, you said that this bill had no sources of cover, and you also spoke of the political will to find the sources of cover. You said that, whether money is found, it is irresponsible to interrupt the procedure for the draft. But in your introductory statement, you said that it was decided to consult the Committee on Monetary Affairs on the financial cover at the meeting of the Commission. What position did the Committee on Monetary Affairs take and what did it respond to the Committee on Social Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U43	Thank you, good questioner! We also talked in the Committee on Social Affairs about the fact that the Committee on Social Affairs is not the committee that adopts the state budget and takes decisions on the state budget. This is simply not the responsibility of our committee. But now is the time to establish the basis of the laws on which the state budget for next year will be made. After all, the drafting of the state budget is in its initial phase or half. I consulted the Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. It turned out that there was no forecast or any figures on the basis of which the financial situation could actually be stated. We know the cost of this bill. We did not get a formal response from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, because they also lack data and opportunities to say exactly this situation today. This is the budgetary process. Once the law has been passed, we need to find the sources of cover, there is no other option. I would remind you that the April economic forecast only came yesterday. If you think I'm happy with these numbers, then that's not true. On the contrary, they are more concerned. Even more worrying are the events that unfortunately continue in Ukraine, so it seems. No sanctions that I hope will be imposed against Russia for political reasons will bring more money. They certainly affect Russia's behaviour, but they also affect us, members of the European Union, if the European Union decides, for example, to impose any sanctions. Let's look at our good friends in the Finns. Their economic situation is even more complicated now, because they may not have made as tough decisions as we have here. Their loan burden has gone pretty high. Similarly, Sweden is not in the best position. That's the kind of data that keeps coming. But listening to the comments of the Minister of Finance Ligi yesterday, I realized that the new coalition has been thinking about how to take this money. I certainly support a better tax collection, which is very positive. But I cannot support it as the Vice-Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee; I will say once again that EUR 23 million will be found next year at the expense of the mother's pension, i.e. the mothers who raised children.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U44	Thank you. Please, Andrus Ansip, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U45	Thank you, Mr President. Good Margus! You didn't tell me exactly where and how much money would be found. Can it be concluded that in your heart, however, you agree with the idea of Sven Sester that until the financial matters are clear, you could interrupt the procedure for this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U46	Thank you, good questioner! I do not agree with your statement in the sense that I have trusted Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi all these years and I trust him now. He has said much more about the costs, which are now stated in the coalition agreement, that the sources of cover will be found for them. If you ask me personally where you can actually find the money, I'll tell you, a good questioner where you can find it. A 1% reduction in income tax costs an amount of EUR 70 million. I think that this is not what families with children are demanding at the moment, nor is it required by the entire Estonian society. Rather, Estonian society requires that child and family allowances be raised. If you ask me which one to do, either raise child benefits or lower income tax by 1%, then I will definitely choose to increase child benefits. This is a concrete answer to the question of where to get the money. I think the new coalition needs to look at the economic forecast, it's getting a little rougher towards autumn. In my opinion, you must withdraw a few promises if you still want to implement the responsible monetary policy that the Andrus Ansip government has been implementing for years.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U47	Thank you. Please, Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U48	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! You were concerned when you answered one of the previous questioners that the new coalition wanted to go to the national reserves. But I have here the Treasury report on the cash flow for 2013, i.e. when the IRL was in the government. This shows that in 2013 the country's cash flow was down to EUR 37 million. I remember that in 2012 too, the country's cash flow was negative. If the IRL was in the government, what sources did you cover this minus from? Or are you suggesting that you collected reserves instead?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U49	Thank you, good questioner! I am certainly no match for you because I have never been the best Minister for Finance in Europe and probably will not be. But I want to say that we came through the 2009 and 2010 economic crisis when we made huge cuts. Its effects continued. The previous government aimed at a structural surplus and, in this sense, the collection of reserves for the future. This goal has clearly been abandoned by the new coalition. I think a good questioner knows a lot better than I do that these numbers are actually negative. Reserves are not collected in this sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U50	Thank you. Please, Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U51	Thank you, Madam President. Austet waitress! Sometimes it takes three years and night sessions to get a message. I would point out to the honourable rapporteur that our draft has not been processed for three years, but has been on the shelf for three years. Since there are different signals from the lines of your group, which is why I feel that the heel turn is not absolute, I want to know whether rediscovery and further processing of our draft is the sincere desire of the IRL, or whether we are simply pursuing political technology here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U52	Thank you, good questioner! I do not know how you do, but I will certainly not come to the Chamber of Riigikogu to cultivate political technology. I would like to remind you that this is the Riigikogu, and if we decide anything, it is a law, it is not political technology. That's one. Secondly, political will, I come back to it, is very important. If it is not, it will be very difficult to adopt laws. If there is political will, we can adopt laws here, and if this political will is responsible, then good laws can also be passed. As you can see, from the Committee on Social Affairs, this bill came to this Chamber with a decision to stop second reading, a political will has arisen. I take this draft very seriously and I hope that the Social Democrats, led by a good questioner, will also take their proposals seriously. It's not political technology.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U53	Thank you. Please, Thomas Tõniste!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U54	Good manager! Good waitress! Listening to this debate here, I have the impression that several of the people in the Chamber have forgotten that there was a pretty big economic crisis in the meantime, and quite a few of them had pink glasses, whether or not they wanted to take it out of the way. I wondered whether the Committee on Social Affairs, in its debate, also touched on the issue of why it was not possible to increase family allowances in the past. This was not possible because of this crisis. Secondly, I have no idea what the Social Democrats really want. Do they want to support their bill or do they not want it and the night sessions were just a big show to manipulate the public?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U55	Thank you. In the Committee on Social Affairs, we have repeatedly discussed the proposals for raising child allowances submitted by the Centre Party and the Social Democrats. Indeed, the main argument of not supporting them has been that we have not had the means to increase these subsidies. Secondly, it must be acknowledged that the previous coalition did not provide for an increase in universal child benefits in its coalition agreement, but we were going to introduce a need-based family benefit system. In addition, we increased the benefits for the third and each of the next children. This is the background to this problem. Speaking of social democrats, today's vote will show whether or not they are taking this issue seriously and whether or not they are dealing with political technology. I know that, just a few weeks ago, the Social Democrats collected signatures from the people so that this bill would be adopted as such by law. It was done for a long time, people were asked for signatures on the street. You know that better than I do. Our people were also asked to sign this application in Tallinn City Council. I cannot answer for the Social Democrats because I do not know what they want. I hope they want an increase in child benefits, and I hope they want their draft to be passed as a law. I think that makes sense. But I'm sure they can speak for themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U56	Thank you. Please, Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U57	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! I don't know if you noticed yourself, but in answering the question of a good colleague, Andrus Ansip, and not agreeing with him, you basically mistrusted your good party partner, Sven Sester, the long-standing chairman of the Monetary Commission, who just expressed the opinion in this Chamber that the draft should be suspended. Of course, it honors you that you are still loyal to the Minister of Finance, but I think that Sven Sester, as Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, did his job here for hours defending the state budget this year. Do you have different opinions about child benefits only, or is there a gap in the IRL?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U58	They're such wet dreams. I can tell these dreams will be dreams and there will be no gaps in the IRL. Perhaps contrary to the mental world you represent, the multiplicity of opinions in our party has been traditional and it has also been public. Secondly, Sven Sester asked whether I think the reading of the draft should be interrupted, he did not propose to stop reading. I replied that I do not think it is a good idea to interrupt the procedure for this draft today. If you want to see some salmon or whatever, I have to say there's no salmon. But I do not find it surprising that, contrary to some other party, the IRL is allowed to say what anyone has in mind.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U59	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U60	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! Since it was probably already foreseen that this debate would come out of the context of the debate in the Commission, I will allow myself a slightly broader question, which, of course, you may not answer. The Reform Party has recently given a very clear signal that they were so generous from the start and would have given money to everyone, but the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance, as they were hindered. Jürgen Ligi has told you that it was very difficult to work with you because you didn't know what you wanted. Explain, please, why were you so opposed to sharing money, and why only now that you have left the coalition will the Reform Party finally be able to throw money off the plane!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U61	You know, a good questioner, I think that's the reason... I don't know how to say this. What has changed since then? The Prime Minister has changed. Hat off to the former Prime Minister who has become a member of the Riigikogu. He's stuck to his point of view. He has said that raising universal child benefits is not, in his view, a meaningful activity. The Prime Minister has a certain weight in the government, I think, quite a lot of weight.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U62	Thank you. Please, Thomas Tõniste, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U63	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I'm just a little confused again. Please specify whether, in the Committee on Social Affairs, the Reform Party supported sending this draft to second reading and ending it. If it was supported by these members of the committee, is there a gap and a quarrel in the house?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U64	No, the Reform Party did not vote in favour of graduation in the Committee on Social Affairs; they simply did not vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U65	Thank you. Please, Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U66	Thank you very much. Listening to Margus Tsahkna gives the impression that the IRL is not a purpose but an instrument. Tsahkna speaks of children, but emphasizes that there is something more important, such as security. So the children demanding money are on one side and the security situation in Ukraine is on the other side. Moreover, Margus Tsahkna's mouth speaks one thing, but the body language is quite different. I therefore want to know what Mr Tsahkna really wants to tell us all about the speaker.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U67	Good questioner! I'm a little confused with the content of your question. What's my body doing right now? He's standing right in front of you. This is a Social Democrat bill. I hope the good questioner knows what the Social Democrats have promised before the elections and what they actually do, I hope that there will be no confusion in your head, no matter what this body does. Obviously, here I represent the view of the Committee on Social Affairs that this draft should be adopted as a law, so that the second reading should be completed today and the draft sent to third reading by Thursday this week. Speaking of what we discussed here earlier, I am also in my position and I have been talking about this board all the time about the need for more support for children and families with children. In that respect, I don't have to eat a word of my own. On the other hand, I was the bad crocodile of the Riigikogu during the previous period, who knew what one euro meant and where this euro came from, perhaps how can can candy get into jam or where dust comes from. We must also bear in mind the economic forecast. As a specialist in international politics, Marianne Mikko certainly knows that the global economy is affecting us, the events taking place in Ukraine and the Russian economy are affecting us, and possible sanctions are affecting us and the countries around us and the economies of all countries. Therefore, decisions must be sustainable. But having heard the statements made by the Minister for Finance of the new coalition, I think that raising child benefits is feasible for the Estonian state. The question is whether or not other decisions support it, whether, for example, the 1% tax reduction actually supports sustainable public finances or not. I've had questions about that.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U68	Three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U69	Thank you. Please, Karel Knight!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U70	Thank you. Honourable Commission waitress. I have three children of my own, and I know exactly what raising children means. I know that every euro that we can add to the family raising children is extremely important. Indeed, as you yourself said from this speaker, families with children need first and foremost the confidence that the increase in child benefits brings. For the sake of the Steinogram, I would simply like to point out that the Spring Collection has also agreed to an increase in need-based family benefits of EUR 45 and, in addition to the increase in the first and second child allowance of EUR 45, the allowance will increase from the third child to EUR 100. But as a member of the Riigikogu and the Social Affairs Committee, are you also prepared to support the proposals of the Spring Collection if child support increases from 19 euros to 45 euros, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U71	Thank you. I do not know what the spring collection or coalition is, but I do know that the Republic of Estonia has acquired a new government and a new coalition of government. Every penny that goes to children and families, I have always supported and certainly supported the IRL, but I hope that this bill will also be adopted as a law. I mean, there's no point in us playing cat and mouse games. For the first time in more than ten years today, we are in a situation where all political parties have said that child support should be increased. Now it's like a game. The Social Democrats have issued a draft for the procedure and they have fought for child benefits to rise. They have campaigned and invested hundreds of thousands of euros in this campaign, I think, to convince their voters. They have been outside for hours to say that it is precisely this bill that must be passed as a law. They've done it completely sincerely and the hat off in front of them. This has been one of the fundamental issues of the Social Democrats. Today in this Chamber, however, there is such a strange situation that I, like the Socialists, should convince them that this is their draft and that they could adopt it as a law. This is a schizophrenic moment. On all issues, through the flowers, it has been said that this is perhaps not a very good proposal for the Socialists. Actually, I don't want to be in this situation. IRL has its own family policy, which maybe is a little different. Really, Sven Sester's been asking about it, and we've been through this. Indeed, families with three or more children and parents raising a child alone are in the most difficult situation. These are the facts you all know. Today we are discussing the draft Social Democrats. As former chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, I have the feeling that if there is such a political moment when all parties in this Chamber say that, yes, universal child support can be raised for more than ten years, we all want it, then what is happening in this Chamber today is some sort of redoing. There is a bill, a concrete bill, it is made by the Social Democrats. Be brave, don't be afraid, don't shake, vote for your bill! [[Laughter.]] Why do I have to protect it here instead of you?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U72	Thank you. Please, Jüri Jaanson, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U73	Good waitress! You have a beautiful pathetic talk right now, but I will come back to the way reform parties voted in the Committee on Social Affairs and why they voted that way. Secondly, I am interested in what then is responsible legislation. Any very necessary bill should have financial coverage. I therefore ask whether it is responsible to proceed with the draft without waiting for the August economic forecast and the autumn draft budget procedure, during which we can, if possible, find a cover for this draft law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U74	Thank you. I mean, next year's budget will be easier to do if you know what specific expenditure is. The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu does not adopt this draft as a law; it is the decision of the Riigikogu as a whole. If the Riigikogu does not adopt this draft as a law, it is a decision of the Riigikogu and, through the Riigikogu, it is the decision of the Estonian people. If we decide today to significantly increase child benefits, the budget will be easier to draw up than if we were to start raising it sometime in September. I myself have been in the process of drawing up the state budget, and I know that, in fact, large blocks are being put in place precisely from the forecast that has now come. I mean, the job's actually been here before. On February 20, Jürgen Ligi was in the government's office with suggestions for cuts. Actually, the government is putting together a budget now. It will come to us in the autumn, but it will be practically impossible to make such changes of EUR 100 million, let us be honest. The night sessions held by the Social Democrats were excellent steps that helped to draw attention to this issue. However, making such a big turn in this hall at the beginning of November is very difficult. It is therefore very reasonable to deal with this draft now, at the beginning of April.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U75	Thank you. Please, Jüri Morozov!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U76	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! You spoke in your presentation and in answering your questions about the fact that economic growth is shrinking and there are no funds to cover budget expenditure. At the same time, you want this bill to be passed as a law. What is it you're doing right now? You said it wasn't political technology. What could it be? Has your sudden affection for the Socialists obscured your rational thinking and you do not quite understand what you are talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U77	Thank you. I certainly will never reach the heights as great as Jan Uuspõld. Secondly, I am not giving any performance here, but I am presenting the draft tabled by the Socialists. If this is your written scenario for the show, it is very unfortunate because playing with children and families is not very polite. You have proposed, and you have stood for it. The fact that this bill remained in the process was also a decision. I have repeatedly talked about the need to increase child benefits from this remote control. Recently, there was even one problem when I, answering Eiki Nestor's question, as child benefits rise, was perhaps too optimistic and said that after March 2015, perhaps in April we will make this decision. But now the political situation is different and this decision can be made a year earlier. I think it will certainly be of great help to the families. If you're here to joke and enjoy the show, I don't think this is the right place to do it. Inara, this button push means a specific bill and specific help for these families. It's not a Monotheater or some other theater. I'm not kidding around here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U78	Please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U79	Good manager! Good waitress! I've been listening to these questions for over an hour. This is where they asked about the theater. It seems to me that the Social Democrats have been doing theatre for three years, collecting signatures and making promises. I hope that this theatre performance will end today by all supporting the increase in child benefits. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U80	I'm sticking to my opinion that I don't think it's a theatre. Parliament is about talking, and we are really talking here. This is where we negotiate. I'm just seeing this little moment of panic. Sometimes you get embarrassed when you really want something, like the Social Democrats have wanted child benefits to rise, and then all of a sudden, that's all possible when you make a decision and press the button. I think that's the kind of embarrassment the Social Democrats are in right now. I urge you to stand firm, because voters are watching whether politicians keep their promises or not. I find it ridiculous to blame me for bringing this draft into this Chamber as Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee at the time, seeing the political will. If that's the reason I'm being accused, I'm very happy with the accusation. Thank you. But let's talk about the substance. I don't think it's a theatre. These are specific decisions intended to be implemented.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U81	Please, Imre Sooäär, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U82	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! Every show is a good thing if people don't leave the hall until the show's over. I see that only three of your party mates have been among the audience. But my question is motivated by the wording of the question of a good colleague, Kalev Eagle. At the moment you found this bill under the dust, as chairman of the committee, you had to have a very clear understanding of where these sources of cover are. You've been talking about taking out pensions here today, and so on. Where, according to your understanding, would the money have to come from for cover?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U83	Thank you. I have repeatedly said here where this money could come from: the reduction in personal income tax should be stopped. These amounts shall be of the same order of magnitude.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U84	Thank you. Please, Marianne Mikko, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U85	Thank you. Margus Tsahkna, I'm in front of a difficult dilemma, you could say, in a totally schizophrenic situation. What's from the game and what's real? But, of course, it is not my feeling that matters too much, but the question is why Estonian children are merely a tool for prominent IRL policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U86	Thank you. There were so many expressions on this issue that I do not want to say anything about. IRL policy and family policy are certainly not prominent.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U87	Thank you. Please, Valdo Randpere, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U88	Thank you. First, I'm going to be more specific. Margus, when you answered my last question, I lied too, when last year I didn't support the rise in universal child support, but last week I supported you, you were wrong or you lied again. I did not support or support the increase in these subsidies at this time either. I believe that this is the wrong measure and that targeted and needs-based support would be more sensible. But that's it. My question to you is still about the same personal income tax. You supported it last year, but right now you're saying it has to be stopped. If the Coalition of the IRL and Reform Party had continued to work, would you have been prepared to demand, contrary to what was written in the Coalition Agreement, that the reduction of personal income tax should be stopped?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U89	It is true that we have a development plan for children and families until 2020, where it is explicitly stated that every cent we contribute to children today will bring us back much later. I am talking about the health of the population, about education and, ultimately, about economic development and about the country at all. Ladies and gentlemen, today the Group of the Social Democratic Party is proposing to interrupt the second reading of draft 11. In this regard, I would like to point out that the Social Democrats have not abandoned their aim of raising the support of the first and second children to EUR 60 per month. Hopefully, this will be done by the government that will take up work after the next Riigikogu elections. We are more than willing to cooperate with all political forces in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U90	Thank you. Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U91	Thank you, good Valdo! First of all, I didn't say I was lying either. I told you the question you asked was about as good as asking you what I asked you. Unlike the Reform Party, we have kept our word. We did not break this coalition, we have respected the agreements that we agreed on in the coalition agreement. But the coalition agreement is undisputed in two or three sides of the coalition can have a different number of counterparties, and in this agreement not everyone gets what they want, but everyone gets a little less. Everything's a little unhappy. But we survived together for seven years, which I think is a great achievement. The tasks of the previous coalition were really very complicated. I am grateful to the Reform Party for this time, because we ate not poodles together, but tons of salt and basically made the right decisions. Because of these decisions, we are even able to seriously discuss raising child benefits today. But the political situation has changed and the Reform Party has also said that it would be worthwhile now to increase universal child support. I don't know how you two actually get along in the coalition. The former Prime Minister says that he does not support the increase in these subsidies, and you, as an economic and financial person, say that you do not support the increase in universal child benefits and that there are still people in your party who are of that opinion. I do not know how long the coalition of the Socialists and Reform Party will actually last if you say that you will not support it a few weeks after the conclusion of the coalition agreement on one of the fundamental promises. It is not my place to discuss this here, it is already a matter of your cooperation. But the political decision-making point is here and today. What I'm saying is, if the IRL's made a promise, we're gonna do it. We are now acting as if we believe that the best thing for children and families is to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U92	Thank you. Please, Tatiana Jaanson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U93	President-in-Office and speaker. Here's the question. There are earlier and current political agreements. Is it your concern that the new agreements do not apply and that the new coalition will not increase child benefits?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U94	Thank you. I can't tell you what the new coalition does or doesn't do. It's up to the new coalition. I know we have a bill here, and I know that all political parties have said that universal child support must be increased. To be honest, the Riigikogu is the highest body after the people and we have the free will to decide. I call on you to make decisions. I call on the Socialists, of course, to keep their promises as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U95	Thank you. Please, Tatiana Jaanson, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U96	I didn't get an answer to my question. Do you think the political agreements between the previous coalition and the current coalition are not valid? Are these just air bubbles?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U97	I've got you all figured out. I've seen it, and you've all seen it change in politics. We imposed a maternity pension, for example, in 2012, we adopted this decision in this Chamber together with our coalition partner. Now the plan is to cancel the maternity pension. As of 1 January 2015, 200,000 mothers who have raised children will lose their maternity pension if the new coalition decides so. This is not a plan of any kind from the previous coalition, but a law adopted in this Chamber. In 2012, as far as I know, no one voted against it here. If the new coalition does not come to its senses and think of their 200,000 mothers, the same bill will come here with the draft state budget law and then you will vote differently. So the question was quite rightly set in this sense: whether or not promises are kept. When I look at the position taken by prominent and leading Reform Party politicians, I really don't know if the new coalition will last until autumn at all. But today I know that we have a specific draft and the Committee on Social Affairs has proposed that this second reading be stopped. If you decide to finish second reading today, then on Thursday this draft will come to third reading and child benefits will be raised. Your coalition may continue to rule completely calmly, but this promise has been fulfilled and you can thank your constituents for their support.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U98	Thank you. No further questions for the rapporteur. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U99	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, At second reading, all members of the Riigikogu may appear. I will take this opportunity, especially in the light of today's debate, to give some ideas on this draft. I think there are two things we should talk about. Firstly, universal child benefits versus needs-based child benefits, and secondly, possible sources of coverage. I'm trying to talk about these two issues. Having been the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs for the last few minutes and having been defending the state budget from this remote control for three years now, I have had some thoughts on these issues, even though I have said them in the past. I fully support the point made by former Prime Minister Andrus Ansip a week and a half ago. I am still of the opinion that universal child benefits are simply money-sowing. If there is a political decision to put money into this social area and it is a source of cover, then, ladies and gentlemen, I think that in this case we should increase the need-based support even further. As I understand it, the current coalition, i.e. the provisional government, has agreed to increase the EUR 45 universal subsidies and EUR 45 needs-based grants, and it will cost almost EUR 80 million. If the need-based approach were to be used, the amount of child benefit for families could be increased not by EUR 45+45, but by much more. There is a fundamental view of whether we are sowing money for all or for those who really need it. I still think that as a member of the Riigikogu, I would rather give money to those who really need it. The reason is very simple: we have little money, it does not come to the state budget indefinitely. We must always consider whether we can fix the road to Tallinn in one year or whether we can make 10 kilometres each year, which is inevitable. The situation is similar to that of children's benefits. In today's discussion, I noticed that a good colleague, Valdo Randpere, also said that he did not support it. Well, it's a little schizophrenic, really, if you have to go against your conscience. At one point, you're thinking the same thing, but real life is quite different. A few more thoughts. Aivar Sõerd said in today's debate that in previous years the budget has made it possible to make decisions which the coalition has nevertheless adopted, even though the economic forecast was no longer so good. Aivar Sõerdi is right. Indeed, the economic forecast, which was a prerequisite for making the state budget, showed one and the later reality was another. The reality last year also did not meet the conditions that had been taken into account in the autumn. An analogous situation has already arisen. At the time, however, the nominal cash receipts were in line with what had been expected. This was an opportunity not to make drastic changes to the state budget during the financial year. Now we have to say that already in 2014, we are very likely to see EUR 32 million minus in actual receipts. Next year, we will see more than EUR 50 million in real receipts if we follow the promises that have now been delivered. I think that in situations like this, we should think deeply about what decisions we take. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U100	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U101	The draft we are discussing today is actually part of the decisions that we should take in the near future. It seems to me that this handwriting, which is essentially a temporary coalition, is that promises are made as in boomtime, but reserves are spent as in times of crisis. It's a big nuance. If we feel that we want to support this bill, we need to think about where the sources of cover come from. It's something we have to report to ourselves exactly. Let's think about what chance we have now, given that the forecast is that the money will fall almost twice, from 3.6% to 2%. We also mean that according to the current forecast, the latest events in Ukraine have not been taken into account, and probably not the potential risk scenarios in the short term, for example, that this 2% will decrease further. So we cannot make decisions without possible sources of cover. We have been discussing this and the Socats have also tabled one draft reduction of 1% of income tax, which will enter into force in 2015. I do not rule out that this may be one of the alternatives, but there may be other alternatives. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, one thing is clear: if a political decision is to be taken, whether it is the €45 or some higher amount requested by the current temporary coalition, then it must be the source of cover. Currently there are no actual sources of cover for 45 or 90 euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U102	Thank you very much. Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U103	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Better half an egg than an empty shell. In less than nine months, the allowance paid to the first and second children will increase from EUR 19 to EUR 45 per month, almost 2.5 times. This is a very big thing that provides additional support for tens of thousands of families with children growing up. For many children, this means going to a violin or piano lesson or exercise, and for many, you can go to a cinema or theatre more often. There is no doubt that some families can use an additional amount to cover a better and more productive table for their children. The lion's share of our children, around 250,000 children grow in single- and two-child families. Over the years, the Social Democrats have repeatedly applied in the Riigikogu to triple the support of the first and second children, but in vain. Now, in the government coalition, we can do something for the children in a tangible and quick way. In addition to the first and second children's allowance, we will also increase the allowance for the third and subsequent children to EUR 100 per month. Support for families facing the greatest difficulties, in other words, needs-based family support, will increase to EUR 45 per month. If the family is literally struggling to cope, we will raise the child benefit rate to 90 euros per month. With the help of euro money, we expand childcare facilities and create more kindergarten places. Just as Social Democrats have always considered it right and convinced colleagues at both day and night sessions, high school youths will finally get a free lunch. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased to note that the IRL has become a passionate advocate of universal child support. Perhaps you will remember how IRL's lead politician, Sven Sester, confirmed in the debate on the state budget in November 2013 and in this Chamber today: the multiplication of universal child support is not an effective model, it is not possible to allocate money to everyone and all the time. Within the resources available to society, it is important to look at the need-based. However, in the case of grants, including school food aid, Sven Sester felt that the state had to become more needs-based. The chairman of the Monetary Commission also said, when speaking about free school food, that sooner or later we must also get to the necessity of it. Does everybody need school food? The president of the IRL Group at the time found that the Social Democrats were merely acting when they held night sittings to increase children's benefits. However, all European studies and Nordic experience show that the birth rate is higher and that poverty in families with children is lower, especially in those countries where everyone is paid equally and noticeable family benefits, and the state is doing everything it can to provide the services that children need. I am thinking of childcare, free recreational education, school food, etc. All of this would help parents in work and family life.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U104	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, When I look at you and listen, I remember Jan Uuspõld, who has given very vivid and meaningful mono- performances to please the Estonian people. I understand this is your last show today, and you're doing very well. It's like you've got a third eye open, you're trying desperately, but it doesn't change the situation anymore. For ten years, you have not been able to raise child benefits; for ten years, child benefits have been at exactly the same level. Well, you haven't done it! I would like to conclude by saying that do not hurt your heart, because the Socialists have a firm plan on how to do this. You're free to finish this mono- performance tonight. Believe me, we applaud you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U105	Thank you. First of all, I am talking about raising child benefits. Secondly, the draft is here before you today, this is the draft of the Social Democrats, by the way, and the Committee on Social Affairs has decided to send it to second reading and to conclude the second reading. I think it's the right decision to think about children and families. But I'm a responsible person, and I know the numbers. I want to say that the rise in child benefits must be done. Rather, the problem is that the new coalition has promised to spend a great deal of money and to take a number of measures that will take money out of the budget. Putting the weight on the issue of whether to raise child benefits or, for example, to reduce personal income tax by 1%, these amounts are in the same weight category, I would choose either to postpone the increase in child benefits and the reduction in income tax or to take it off the agenda at all. This is the message I'm giving you here. When asked if I deal with political technology by bringing you here to decide on your own draft, so that you can be happy and keep your promises to the voters, I would point out that I also want to give the answer to where this money really comes from. The current coalition, with its promises, will not give that answer. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U106	Thank you. Please, Kalev Eagle, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U107	Thank you, Madam President. Austet waitress! We had different opinions earlier on about political technology. Here's my question. If the government coalition had not changed, would the Social Affairs Committee, under your leadership, have had enough vigour to wipe the dust off our bill and bring it to the hall for three years?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U108	Thank you. You have to ask our coalition partner.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U109	Thank you. Please, Valdo Randpere!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U110	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Margus! Like many others in this hall, it is difficult for me to interpret your body language and your speech. I do not understand what motivates you more, either the joy of a deteriorating economic forecast or the sincere concern about the situation of children. I think there's less sincerity. But you don't have to answer that. I also have a specific question. Margus, when did you lie, if you supported the law on personal income tax reduction, or now if you insist on quitting?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U111	Good questioner! I think it's just as good a question if I asked you when you lied, if you said you didn't need to raise child support, or a week ago when you said you needed to raise them.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U112	Thank you. Please, Barbi Pilvre!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U113	Thank you. Good waitress! I am a pretty new member of the Riigikogu and maybe I don't know all the political technological schemes yet. I think there's a lot of people watching your show over the Internet. Perhaps, however, you will specify and uncomplicate the political technological scheme on the basis of which it is possible that one member of the IRL will suddenly like a draft Social Democrat so much that you can so convincingly defend it here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U114	Thank you. Maybe it's time for you to set the pace and see how the Riigikogu works. I would remind you that the members of the Riigikogu are not party soldiers here, they are members of the Riigikogu, they have obtained a mandate from their constituents and are free in their decisions. That's one. This is my recommendation to a member of the Riigikogu and perhaps to a member of the government in the future, I speak quite sincerely. Second, look at history. I don't have to explain anything here. The last time universal child benefits were raised was during the Juhan Parts government. IRL is the party that last increased universal child benefits by doubling them. That's a fact. We don't have any unexpected political technology here. We talk about things the way they are.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U115	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U116	Thank you. Dear waitress, There has been a great deal of talk here about political will. In fact, the work of the Riigikogu is about political will. This is also probably political will, for example, if part of the expenditure is covered by road money and the additional income of Eesti Loto. The income of Estonian Loto is also increased at the expense of the recipients of child benefits, as these families are probably the biggest lottery players, as they are in the greatest financial difficulties. In fact, these are also political choices if there is no tax reform, administrative reform or state reform, because it would also be possible to obtain funding for grants. Who in the Riigikogu today lacks the political will to find support money for children?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U117	Thank you. It was about body language. I understand that all political parties here have promised that child support should be raised, but if the fingers vote differently, then there is the political will to see it when the mouth speaks one thing, but the fingers do another. At least in words, for the first time today, there is a situation in the Chamber of Riigikogu where four political parties represented in the Riigikogu have said that universal child support must be increased. I think that in 2003, when the last decision was taken on the increase in child benefits in this Chamber (this decision took effect on 1 January 2004), no one voted against it in the same way. I don't know exactly, but I think it was.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U118	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U119	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, The movement of paper to the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu was as if the transfer of the symbolic collection of poetry to the Deputy Speaker of the Parliament of the Republic of Estonia, because the above-mentioned sots sounded like a nice poem. At other times, the ancient God has strange customs, or the Centre Party, looking for internal excavation, probably has its own plans, for he has kept us from losing our true course and our face. At the moment, Estonia has developed a strange situation where the coalition agreement of the new interim government (we call it whatever we call it) is actually very good. I admit honestly and directly that the Social Democrats have been able to take advantage of the current situation in which the political technologists of the Reform Party once again decided to wallow a little with the coalition partner. The Soots have managed to enter into the coalition agreement things that are undoubtedly not full truth, but half-truth, but in any case a step forward, as they say, towards a more human-faced Estonia. The funny thing is, in reality, that the Socats could have taken advantage of the opportunity to go to a marriage bed with the Reform Party, not now, but in 2015. The drawbacks of this coalition agreement lie in the fact that there is no money to meet all these dreams, or if there is, the use of it will also be painfully hitting those reasonable voters who might even have wanted to support the social democrats in the future. One particular target group is the normal intelligent educated Estonian people who have managed to keep their ancestors' house, live either in a pleasant Estonian garden town, county town or anywhere with higher education... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U120	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U121	It is clear from day to day that the heating bills of these people are beginning to increase greatly, as they do not have money from their scholarly work salary to renovate the pellet of their home boiler house, which actually tends to go to the same price as oil. In reality, they get a pretty good increase in the price of heating, and it's that simple. After all, Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, sitting with us today in this Chamber, has clearly said that this is not very reasonable. In the previous government, he certainly didn't think so. The next thing that clearly excites me and, in fact, all of us in the opposition, is that Jürgen Ligi said this morning that the following year should probably take out a loan. I don't know, you guys are fantastic! Step into your party. Jürgen Ligi, who's always been against borrowing, is like being reborn. On the one hand, I like it when it leads to a human-faced society. But, on the other hand, it is a tragedy if it leads to a withdrawal from the country's fiscal policy. Let's just say that these potential voters of soccer, intelligent people with higher education who usually do research, are teachers at school or small entrepreneurs, and are serious about whether to buy a new car right now. For the simple reason that the dreamed car tax of the Sots has also arrived because VAT is not refunded. That means the bastards are good again. The Reform Party, of course, smiles and thinks that we've made a horrible deal, and we got out of the IRL government, and now we're having a great time. For the next election, our rating will be so high that we will be building for everyone. In 11 months, the Reform Party won't want to know anything about you because they don't need you anymore. But the worst thing about it is it's all together. When reasonable people, who are perhaps very active voters, watch us wallow here, they will eventually not like it. I think that a sensible voter turns his back on all the crap we're cooking up here, in fact, together, the Central Party, which is now forced to watch everything calmly, is in any case a co-responsible, so we have our own problems. Let's just say that the whole political system is not honored. I admit honestly and directly this is a group speech, but I am talking more about my ideas, but I am sincerely pleased that Andrus Ansip is here with us today. I have a chance to get to know him humanely for the first time in my life. Now, in retrospect, I was kind of his opponent, but I've never attacked him in Question Time, and I've never asked any questions about Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. I can get to know him personally, he'll bring me back my peace because he's with us and he's there. [[Laughter.]] The fact that the young boys got into government with the socialists doesn't inspire confidence in me. I admit honestly and directly that I am actually very concerned about what happens next. It is now spring sowing time, and soxers might realize that people are always in a good mood during sowing time, because sowing is like the beginning of something new. But if you can't clean up in the fall because you sow nettles that can't be cut or eaten, then there's crying in your throat. But there's nothing more to do with that cry in the fall. Then another winter comes to survive, and next spring comes spring sowing again, which makes you feel good. Spring sowing in 2015 is full of unexpected events. The four political parties who have cemented themselves into this Parliament know very clearly that there is no substitute for them anywhere. This is simply not possible purely technically, and perhaps even a little depends on the will of the electorate, because there is no clear alternative. What is the spring sowing of 2015, we all look forward to, for the simple reason that there are so many unknowns here. In the spring of 2015, we will sow a new field, but it will grow such strange fruits that no one has ever seen, eaten, or put in a mag. In any case, I wish good luck to the political interim government. And I say to the socialists, don't give up, because you're on the right track, and this 11 months is your chance. If you miss it, the people will not forgive you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U122	Thank you. Please, Andrus Ansip!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U123	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! If this life were as simple as Margus just said you'd press the button and your will would come true, what would be wrong? We'll have our will. Estonia's public finances are indeed in very good order. Tax receipts in the first three months have also been pretty good at 22.9% of the planned year, despite the fact that personal income tax has been refunded. However, I call on you to behave responsibly. It is not that only political will is enough, and money comes as miraculously. I therefore support Mr Pikhof's proposal to suspend the second reading of the pending draft until the financial matters are clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U124	No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. One amendment to this draft has been received, and we will review it. This has come from the Committee on Social Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. The amendment has been examined. As the Group of the Social Democratic Party that initiated the draft has proposed to interrupt the second reading, the second reading has been suspended and will not be voted on. I shall set the deadline for the submission of draft 11 amendments. April 23, 5.15 p.m. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U125	Today's second item is the decision of the Riigikogu on the award of grants from gambling tax... ' Dear Members of the Riigikogu, the session is not closed; one item is still on the agenda. Thank you for your attention. First reading of Riigikogu's decision'Appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board for granting grants from gambling tax', submitted by the Finance Committee. Mr Inara Luigas, Member of the Monetary Commission, please speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U126	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, According to § 7 (4) of the Gambling Tax Act, the Riigikogu is formed by the Gambling Tax Award Board, which includes six members of the Riigikogu, one representative of the Ministry of Education and Research, one representative of the Ministry of Culture and one representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs. On 3 March 2014, the Minister of Social Affairs launched a written proposal by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. a on 17 March, a draft stating that former chancellor Marelle Erlenheim will be removed from the Supervisory Board for granting subsidies from the Gambling Tax and appointed as the new representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs at the Council for Social Affairs Deputy Chancellor Rait Kuuse. The draft was dealt with by the Commission at its meeting on 17 and 24 March. No proposals were received by the deadline for tabling amendments, 21 March, and the Committee on Monetary Affairs unanimously proposed that the draft be put to the final vote in plenary on 8 April, i.e. today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U127	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you, Inara Luigas. Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. No amendments were received. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 624. We are preparing for the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu! I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board for granting grants from the Gambling Tax, tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, 624. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-08_U128	57 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision. Today's trial is over. Thank you very much, everyone. See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 11.48 a.m.
