ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U1	Good afternoon, good fellows. Honourable Riigikogu, good guests! We will begin the Monday session of the sixth working week of the VIIIth plenary session of the Riigikogu. And as we have always had good practice, I would first like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or enquiries. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu Enn Fronta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U2	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make an inquiry into the political storm winds about quite badly damaged ferry traffic. The text of the inquiry is this: 'The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications issued information on Tuesday last week that during the procurement of the ferry connection organised by the Ministry on the route Rohuküla-Heltermaa and Kuivastu-Virtsu, the subsidiaries of AS Tallinna Sadam OÜ TS Laevad and OÜ TS Shipping made the best offer. As a result of the procurement, by 1 October 2016, four new ferry ships, two on each route, were to reach the Saaremaa and Hiiumaa routes. Unfortunately, clarity and satisfaction lasted only for a short time. On the evening of 15 October, the Ministry of Finance sent a draft decision to the Ministry headed by you, which considers that the negotiated procurement is null and void and should be repealed. The Ministry of Finance takes the view that the annulment of the procurement procedure pursuant to § 108 (2) of the Public Procurement Act is justified because the contracting authority has infringed the Public Procurement Act throughout the procurement procedure by awarding a public procurement procedure without prior publication of a negotiated procurement procedure. However, the Ministry of Finance considers that the Väinameriline offer was not fundamentally different from the tender terms and conditions, so the Procurement Committee could not declare it non-compliant and initiate a negotiated tender. ' In this regard, we have four questions for the Minister, including that the Centre Party is committed to ensuring free ferrying for the giants and the islanders by 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U3	Good fellows! There are no more requests from members of the Riigikogu. It is a great honour for me to ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Government of the Republic, Heili Tõnisson.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching five draft laws today. First, the draft law amending the Law on bailiffs and the Code of Enforcement Procedure. Secondly, the draft law amending the Penal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure. Third, the draft law amending the Law on Law Enforcement. In processing the above three draft laws in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Justice Andres Anvelt. Fourthly, the draft law amending the Tobacco Act and related laws. Fifthly, the draft law amending the Biocidal Products Act and the State Fees Act. Urmas Kruuse, Minister of Health and Labour, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia when processing the above draft laws in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U5	Good fellows! On behalf of the management board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one inquiry and five drafts, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Now, let's do the presence check. 71 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 30. Let's start today's voting procedure. First of all, we need to confirm the agenda for the sixth working week of the 8th plenary session of the Riigikogu. The agenda is, good fellows, distributed to your desks and we will begin the preparation of this vote. I am voting on the agenda for the sixth working week of the VIIIth plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. With a convincing majority of 65 in favour, there are no respondents and one is impartial, so we can start our working week. We have two questions today. Sorry, there's a free microphone after all the questions, as usual. Anyone who wishes to be prepared to speak in a free microphone after you have been asked.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U6	We will go to the first question submitted by members of the Riigikogu, Priit Toobal, Marika Tuus-Laul, Valeri Korb, Lauri Laas, Enn Eesmaa, Eldar Efendiev, Kalev Kallo, Urbo Vaarmann, Siret Kotka, Mikhail Korb and Viktor Vassiliev on the day of September 10, 2014. The enquiry submitted is for border control purposes and bears the number 428. Mr Pevkur, Minister of the Interior, will answer the question. I now ask for Priit Toobali, representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu Chair, who will introduce the inquiry to the public!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On 10 September this year, we, together with our colleagues from the Central Party Group, presented an inquiry to Minister of the Interior, Hanno Pevkur, concerning border control. While it has been more than a month since the question was made, 40 days have passed, but it seems to us that this issue has not been dealt with very seriously. So this question is very topical. At the beginning of the 1990s, the border guard started to be re-established in Estonia, and since then several reforms have been made at the Border Guard Board. The last major began in 2007, when the Coalition of the Reform Party, the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union and the Sots set up a joint office called the Police and Border Guard Board, which was launched or launched in 2010. In the same year, an internal satisfaction study was carried out at the Police and Border Guard Board, which showed that 86% of employees do not believe that the structure of the agency is conducive to effective management and 46% of managers are dissatisfied with work organisation and day-to-day administration. Up to 81% of the staff acknowledged the problem with day-to-day administration, a particular concern was raised by the situation among the staff of the Border Guard and the Criminal Police Department. At the time, it was stressed that a large organization was not ready and that the problems were due to it. In 2012, the police professional association presented a referral to the Minister for the Interior, which highlighted concerns in the management and organisation of the Police and Border Guard Board. Both former and current border guards have stressed that the unification of organisations has led to a imbalance in the structure and that the border guard is not functioning properly, and that it is mainly the police tasks that are being carried out. The last tragic case, the so-called case of the case, showed quite well what the situation at the border really is and, as a result, this issue is certainly more on the agenda than it was before. While there was a PR act on the border, both the Minister of the Interior and the Prime Minister went to check the border some time ago, as far as I know, the check-point check-in at the border has not been dealt with so far. Maybe it's false information, but then the minister can enlighten us about it. We have put five questions to the Minister, but since in the meantime the Minister for the Interior has announced that a special unit or a rapid unit is being set up to react quickly to what is happening at the border, perhaps the Minister will comment on this proposal as well as on the sixth topic and will tell us what stage it has reached. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U8	Thank you very much. I ask the Riigikogu's speech chair to be asked, which bears the number 428, to answer to the internal minister Hanno Pevkuri. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U9	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I'd be happy to discuss border issues with you today. Moreover, our neighbours, as we know, are currently discussing border issues. To the questions. Question one. Has the merger of the Police and Border Guard Board justified itself, and what benefit has it brought to the border guard? When looking at the objectives of joining the police and border guards and the Citizenship and Migration Board, as well as the establishment of the Police and Border Guard Board, I would remind the inquiries that the main focus of the discussions that took place at the time was to ensure that there were no duplications in law enforcement, that available resources were used optimally and that a uniform service for people was provided. Thanks to the changes, the area was also better able to cope with the intermediate budget cuts and thus to maintain the provision of services to people. Until 31 December 2009, the legal bases, rights and obligations of police and border guard activities were governed by different laws in the exercise of their national supervisory functions. Now, after accession, both police and border guards have the same rights and obligations in the exercise of national supervision and internal security. If you try to answer with one word or very briefly, in a single sentence, whether it has justified itself, then the final assessment can actually only be made after some time, since the last amendments entered into force on 1 October. But both the law enforcement police and the border guard have received more resources on the basis of response needs and threat assessments. Therefore, I dare say that both the police and the border guard won this so-called cross-border use. The second question: 'Why couldn't there be an independent border guard organisation that could be integrated into national defence in times of crisis through the armed forces, not the police? ' At this point, I would like to say that Estonian national defence does not only involve a narrow military focus, but we have, as we know, a broad-based concept of national defence, which also embraces non-military activities and internal security. I am absolutely convinced that non-military activities and internal security are as important as military defence, because this is why we together ensure the safest possible living environment in Estonia. Internal security is one of the main defence policies according to the National Defence Strategy and border guards are currently involved in national defence as one of the areas that ensure internal security. It is also worth reminding the respondents that the substantive decisions that border guards cease to carry out their military defence tasks were taken in 2006-2007. If you look at the debate on what to do next, or if it makes sense to reassess decisions in one way or the other, I will draw the attention of the heirs to both the national defence strategy and the national defence development plan for the years 2013 to 2022. Neither document provides for military defence tasks for border guards. The involvement of border guards in national defence through the Defence Forces would require a review of these documents and in the view of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, my task now is to ensure the best possible manning of border guards, technical equipment and cooperation with the Defence Forces and the Defence League to ensure border surveillance and, if necessary, the protection of the Estonian state. The third question: 'How reasonable can it be to consider that the border guard department now has to deal with police tasks first and foremost? ' I do not want to agree with this in any way, at least not with such a question. The surveillance of the Schengen external borders and the implementation of compensatory measures at internal and internal borders must be considered as separate. Border control and border surveillance are a priority for border authorities in the surveillance of the Schengen external borders, through the prevention of illegal activity at the external borders and thereby ensuring a better internal security of the country. Of course, the use of a resource to perform the functions of other entities will be decided on a case-by-case basis. It is clear that in the area of free movement of Schengen, in other words within the country, border control and the disappearance of border guards from internal borders are compensated by supervisory compensatory measures. An example is the task of traffic supervision, where the verification of the validity of vehicles by persons on board vehicles and their stay in Estonia can be combined with traffic surveillance activities. This is what I said at the very beginning, so that we do not duplicate activities and do sensible things in a country like Estonia. The same rights and obligations in the performance of migration monitoring tasks are also shared by national street patrolling and enforcement officials. This means that those who work daily for law enforcement tasks or patrol activities also carry out compensatory measures for border guards. So if you ask how the border guard has won this merger, that is to say, the compensatory measures are being used perpendicularly. Question 4: Do you consider it necessary to increase the manned border guard on the European Union's and NATO's eastern border? ' State budget, as far as possible, yes, I do. Here perhaps it is quite appropriate to talk about the last decision concerning the setting up of a special unit for rapid border interventions. The representative of the interviewers also drew attention to this from this remote control. In particular, we decided that next year, a rapid reaction unit will be set up to respond to incidents and, if necessary, to resolve border problems on the basis of threat assessments. The main base will continue to be at the southeast border, or the Piusa Kordon, which will be built next year completely new, as well as in Narva. Most likely, if there is any success in manning and enough men, we would like to see a certain number of this special unit in Tallinn because of the water capacity, as well as the compensatory measures. But it is not only about national budget opportunities; it is certainly also about the broader issues of police and border guard manning. Of course, apart from being manned, we are paying equally or financially even more attention to increasing the capabilities of technical security. Increasing the share of the border building and technical security will ensure that, for example, the Rapid Response Unit is able to react and receives very accurate information about what is happening on the Estonian border. So I certainly wouldn't just watch manhood, both technical security and manhood are important. The fifth question concerns specific new measures. It's going to be a long list, but let's try to keep going. Let's get to it in shape. To give priority to border issues, we decided to increase the number of people involved in this in the Ministry of the Interior. We reallocated our assignments and formed a new department from October 18th. In fact, according to the State Gazette, a structural change was introduced today, Monday, which created the Border Guard Policy Department of the Ministry of the Interior. This is a completely separate Border Guard Policy Department, which will be responsible for building the border as well as for the day-to-day coordination of border work. It's a formal side. From a formal point of view, the waitress will remember when I proposed in the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu that the law on the state border be supplemented so that the government can establish the coordinates of the border. The Riigikogu's proceedings also include the Code of Criminal Procedure, according to which the offence of illegal border crossing will be created and will also allow surveillance activities to detect illegal border crossings. Moreover, some time ago, on the basis of a mandate from the Government of the Republic, I have set up a separate committee whose task is to delineate the border and negotiate border issues with landowners living along the border. It will also have to solve all the technical details which, with a border or, more legally speaking, with a reference line, can come up. The Commission has already started work informally because the Head of the Border Guard Policy Division became the chairman of the Commission. As structural changes only entered into force today, the first formal meeting of the Commission will take place next week, the work done so far will be reviewed and the following actions will be agreed: Now, if you come to the issue of clearing the border, the job has been going on for a month, even more. All technical details have been processed in cooperation with the Police and Border Guard Board and the State Forest Management Centre. To date, marking near the control line has already started to clear a 10-metre border strip specifically, and all works are well on schedule. The State Forest Management Centre should go into the forest with forest machinery by now or at the latest next week, so the work is ongoing. Although the representative of the heirs said in the introduction that nothing has been done, I can even say with date precision what has been done. When it comes to the money that we have diverted to the border, many decisions have passed through the media and I have also said myself in the next year and perhaps in the second half of the year, and at most in the second half of the year, around 30 million euros will be directed to increase the security of the border across Estonia. This does not include the construction of the Piusa cordon, which, according to memory, is 5.6 million euros and the construction of the Narva border crossing point, which is 10 million euros in size. In the coming years, a huge amount of European and Estonian taxpayers' money will go to increase the security of the border. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U10	Thank you, Minister. You have a lot of questions, too, and we'll go to them. Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U11	Thank you, good manager. Mr. Minister! We've seen this state border video, maybe you've been there yourself. Of course, it looks ugly with shrubs and turds, water between them and dubious mushroom treads or whatever. No one understands whether his foot is standing on the surface of Estonia or Russia and this has been the case for over 20 years. Why, now that an emergency has occurred, will the money be found and something will be done? What prevented 20 years of finding money and time to pull in a decent ditch, to make a control strip that would be visually distinguishable? Whether it is a control line, a state border or whatever, it is still the Estonian border for us.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U12	Thank you, good questioner! Good question. I could ask in return what's stopped you. I don't know. I can say that one reason has been that it has also been said that there has been no ratification of the border agreement between Estonia and Russia, so it has not been considered reasonable to set off the baseline to the extent that the border line would require. It is known that the baseline and ratified border agreement or the signed border agreement and the unratified border agreement allow the border line to be shifted to one side or the other, according to the natural situation and the transnational agreement for the cutting of some teeth. We may ask for other reasons from those who have been ministers of the Interior for 20 years, but that will not help us further. What's gonna help us is that we're gonna do as much as we can right now. Certainly this incident did not set a light on my head, but in May, when I had just become Minister of the Interior and went to the border for the first time during my term of office and saw the situation there. Then we immediately started looking for funds and allocated money to change the border situation. So I'm sure this incident wasn't the main incentive, but it gave me an extra boost to do the job. I am very pleased that the State Forest Management Centre came to the aid and found it possible to clear the border line, after which the border can also be marked and equipped with technical security. It can be done. I certainly don't agree with you. If you want, go to the border. Even if you take a map view from Google Maps, not a visual view, but a photo view, you will see how the border line runs. In fact, there are also many clear, beautiful areas, quite a large part bordering the Piusa River, etc. So running the border line is really bad in some places, but in some places it's been very nicely cleaned for a long time. Our job is to make it clearly marked everywhere. Then every person who comes out of the woods can see that there is a target and sees the sign 'Estonian border' and does not go any further. That is the goal, and that is what we are dealing with.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U13	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U14	Thank you. Minister of the Interior! Makes you smile a little bit when you hear your story that in some places our border is quite beautiful. I don't know if a state border can be characterised that way. I also don't know what six of you started flashing a light in your head and realized that the border was off somewhere. In any case, it is clear that at the time of the Eston Suitcase case, the lamp was lit with full power and an alarm signal was issued. I would also like to say that, of course, we should find out who is still responsible if the border has not been built up in 23 years. Can't say we don't need to go through the past. Here's my question. Can we not, Mr Pevkur, for example, find out in the light of the events of the last few days here in the Baltic Sea, how our sea borders are similarly out of order in years or two? We don't know what's going on under the sea, what strange ships we have here, who cross the border on the water. This seems to be the case, especially when you read today's news.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U15	Thank you. The rhetorical question is, do you think the Swedes know what's going on underwater? The underwater world is different. As you read in the media, in the Baltic Sea, where I believe you have perhaps even been swimming, you go under the water diving and see maybe only a meter or a half, maybe you need a sonar system. It is certainly possible to monitor the above-water part of the sea border very easily, as well as the air part with radar. All of this has to be done, and that's what we're gonna do. This is certainly in a much better position than the capacity of countries at all. I am not just talking about Estonia's ability here, but about the ability of the states to control the underwater zone at all. Coming back to the beginning of your question, believe me, for me, it was pretty early that we had to bet on the border. But is it wise to start counting all the interior ministers of the Republic of Estonia who have been in office on average for perhaps one year and two months? Blaming them or any previous government will not take us forward, friends! What goes on is that together we decide to fix our limit or our control line. If we can finally mark the border line in the case of a ratified border agreement, then that is fine. Yeah, I agree that maybe today we'll do a little shield work cleaning our control line, putting it down and investing in it. But I'm saying that this shield job is the right investment. Even if we have to change the border line after some places, then the cost will certainly not be that high, because we are doing some of the investments now and we can be sure that our border zone is under surveillance.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U16	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U17	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I have two brief specific questions. First, if someone from outside of Ida-Virumaa, such as Pärnu or Tartu, gets caught with contraband at the Narva customs point, will this crime be registered in Ida-Virumaa or in the municipality where the person comes from? I hope I'm clear.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U18	Yeah, I figured it out.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U19	And the second question. We're currently reconstructing the toll point. For a long time, Narva has dreamed of building a pedestrian bridge from the castle on Vestervall Street, which would restore a logistical line. Is it possible, at least theoretically, to complete this project and also to discuss the construction of a pedestrian bridge?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U20	Thank you. Coming to the first question, I say that we can clarify this, but, as far as I am concerned, the crime is recorded where it is committed. But in answer to the second question, yes, we did have one, or, let's say, there is now a joint programme action by the ESTLATRUS, and in the future it will become ESTLAT and ESTRUS. The idea has been that there would also be a pedestrian bridge. At the moment, I do not yet know exactly what the ESTRUS measures will be and whether they will come at all, so I am currently indebted to the answer. But I know it's planned. But a pretty correct short answer to the question of whether theoretically you could think about it is yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U21	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U22	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Minister, thank you very much. I'm still asking about the SWAT team. What time are you planning on launching this task force? What kind of resource does it require, is it intended to use only the funds of the PBGB, so that it is necessary to reorganize internal work and find money, or is it planned to support the PBGB from the state budget in order to launch and maintain the Special Unit?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U23	Thank you. The plan is to start at the beginning of next year. Right now, we're looking for men, maybe women, in other words, we're solving manhood issues. As far as I know, part of the team has been assembled, but the unit will start working from the beginning of next year. The money comes mostly from the state budget. We just checked it out today. We allocate money to the PBA both for raising salaries and for setting up a special unit, and now it is up to the institution to decide how it will use it. We give special forces money from the state budget, but now it depends on how quickly manning is achieved and how much a full year requires of this resource. I don't want to talk about the size of the task force. The general good practice is that the size of special units is not discussed, so I am not talking about this amount either. If I were to say the sum, you'd calculate more or less the average salary and try to figure out how many men there are. If necessary, the data can be accessed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U24	Please, Eldar Efendiev, your turn!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U25	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, My question is speculative in some ways. It is understood that there is a need to achieve optimum use of limited resources. Here we can argue whether there might be a need to justify any of the objectives, etc. But my question is this: can you bring one or two or three basic weaker sides or more problematic questions from your field? Secondly, if you had a free hand and an unlimited resource, what would you do with it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U26	Thank you. I can answer like I once said as Minister of Social Affairs. If the Minister of Social Affairs had twice as much money, would that be enough? I say it isn't. Then perhaps the entire state budget would have continued for social spending, but still it would not have been enough. The Ministry of the Interior is about the same story, even if there were twice as much money, it would certainly be possible to make effective use of everything. I will also say to Mr Toobal that the order of magnitude that we add to the entire police budget is 4.5 million euros. The Police and Border Guard Board itself received about the same amount of money for wage increases and also for the formation of a special unit with cuts, and we put on almost the same amount. Returning to this so-called speculative talk, I believe that the most important thing right now is the boundary of the border, not just the eastern border. After the green border, everything that concerns the waterline, especially on Lake Peipsi. It would be necessary to mark the border in the same way, in summer it must be done with buoys, so-called moving buoys, and also during the ice, it must be clearly visible, even though some kind of movement is already taking place in the water. It is never possible to mark the limit in water with the precision of the metre, but it should at least be marked. It's also important to be capable. The Ministry of the Interior is so wide that it is certainly possible to improve the ability to save. I don't want to bring one-two-three points, so we should start looking at how these one, two and three can be resolved in the future. In fact, internal security must be taken as a whole. I am very pleased that the internal security development plan, which looks at the whole issue a little more complex, will soon come between the covers. Years of work, already started by the previous Home Affairs Ministers, will soon reach the final stage. There's a certain overview. And I will also come to the Riigikogu with an annual review, then we can look more closely at where we are, what we are doing and what we need to improve.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U27	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U28	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Your party partner, Retired General Ants Laaneots, has told the Estonian National Broadcasting news show that the Estonian border is completely defenseless and the Russian Spetsnaz brigade has been practicing crossing the border for years, so it can also be said that crossing the NATO border. How seriously do you take what he said, have you met Mr. Laaneots and have any steps taken?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U29	Thank you. Of course, I have met Ants Laaneots, and we have talked about various topics. But I don't know what the General retired on. I know what the Estonian Border Guard is doing now. I know how the Estonian border is guarded. And I am convinced that the Estonian border is quite well guarded. After the work we have done, the border is even better guarded and the technical capacity is greater. There can always be a world of speculation, but in actual border guard work, this is not very sensible or practical.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U30	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U31	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! In your speech, you approved that border guards would carry out traffic police tasks. Will it be expected in the future that the traffic police will also be assigned border guards tasks?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U32	Thank you. They're doing it now. If they have to, they'll do anything together. When a border guard operation is required, traffic police officers do border guard work and vice versa. Border guard work is a very diverse work. I believe you understand that guarding the green border is one thing and guarding the Peipsi border is another. One person can see and control the radar image in a Peipsi cordon. The manning of the cordon is much greater, which means that if there is no alarm on the water, then it makes sense that some border guards, for example, are helping the road patrol at the same time. In a country the size of Estonia, it is practical to perform such tasks in various ways. Of course, if there is a need for a rapid response to large-scale border control tasks, even at the green border, as a traffic, criminal or law enforcement police, it will be done, it will make sense and it will make sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U33	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U34	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. The events at the border a few months ago show that there are such moments when the border is free, there is no one. That's too bad. But how could it happen that there are no people at the border?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U35	Thank you. If you refer to an incident, I would argue that at that point the border of the Republic of Estonia was controlled by the presence of police officers. This is the border crossing point with the presence of the most police officers in Estonia. The fact that a foreign country's illegal border crossing takes the form of a special operation using a special technique did not provide for the presence of police officers there either. So if you're asking if there was a border unguarded during this incident, the answer is that there wasn't. At that point, the concentration of police officers was quite high. The fact is that it is now possible to find points from time to time in the control line between Estonia and Russia where there is neither technical surveillance nor patrol. But that is the question of the border guards' tactics, how to constantly reposition technical equipment in such a way that there is an understanding and knowledge that the Estonian border is always guarded.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U36	Minister, there is another question for you. Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U37	Thank you, Mr President. I'd like to come back to the western border, to that blue border. As we have seen recently, this is also an important border and certainly important for Estonia. How does the distribution of resources between the border guard and the law enforcement function and their cross-use contribute to the surveillance of the western maritime border? How does this system actually work when law enforcement comes to the aid of border guards, border guards come to the aid of law enforcement and, at the same time, we need to ensure the efficiency of both sides?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U38	Thank you. As far as water borders are concerned, assistance to the law enforcement police on water borders can be provided through compensatory measures, particularly on the continent. But if, for example, there is a need to react to what is happening on the water and to bring with us a special unit, it is, of course, no longer a 'traditional border guard' task force, but a special unit that will be taken along to a border incident on the water. On the other hand, we must, of course, have a very good technical capacity to control the waterline. If you look again in a year and two perspective, there are actually plans to replace a whole series of radar positions with a modern system. The ability to keep track of what's still going on is pretty good right now. I have seen the picture that we have on the water, both in Kärdla and Tallinn, and this picture is very good. But, of course, if someone deliberately comes in violation of law or international law, for example, the transponders of ships will be turned off, it is our task to react, i.e. to go and identify it either by helicopter or by plane, if necessary by ship. In fact, two new vessels are planned to be acquired as investments in the next few years. So increasing water capacity is undoubtedly an issue that we will be seriously dealing with over the next few years. As I said, cross-use is primarily a compensatory measure and, if necessary, special operations are also taking place.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U39	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I open negotiations and ask for the Riigikogu speech chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U40	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! In fact, this brief speech is addressed to you, Mr. Minister. When it comes to statistics, it is understandable that it would be very difficult for each crime to find out where the perpetrator comes from, where he is registered and then to record this crime in the relevant county or local government data. This is particularly difficult in Tallinn. We know that not only from all of Estonia, but even from abroad, people who commit crimes come here. I don't think there's anything to be done about this town already having this crime scene. But the border is something peculiar, it's the territory of the country. In fact, it may coincide with the territory of the city of Narva, but we have no power there because it is the territory of the country. If you look at how many crimes are committed, especially when crossing the border with contraband, that's really a drastic number. I recently began to see how this was reflected in our reputation. It's all pretty hard to carry. The people are coming from Europe and Russia, and I am talking about the country of origin, aren't I? Coming from outside Narva, coming from outside of Ida-Viru County. I just called to check on cars, for example. It turns out that 55% of cars crossing the border are not of Estonian origin and the remaining 45% can be assumed, although the local government is of course not mentioned, there are about 5 to 10% of Narva cars. So the locals are a completely marginal part. But all the crimes committed at the border will be put into our statistics. That's not very fair. At the border, the rule for producing this statistics could be slightly different from that in other parts of the country. Why does our renomee have to suffer because we have a limit? So, Minister, I'm addressing you. Let me know if I have to do this in writing or if you're talking to your advisors. Is there any way to distribute the statistics of the border crossing point according to which side the person comes from? The funniest thing is that even if a person who does not live in Estonia at all is either a Russian citizen, lives in Russia or in a European Union country, commits a crime, usually smuggling, it still goes to Narva statistics because it has been carried out at our border. I look forward to a thorough answer to that question. And secondly, Mr. Minister, let me know who your ministry can talk to about this very same pedestrian bridge. The current border crossing point has already divided the city in half for some 20 years, and these well-known tourism schemes are everything that has been done for the development of tourism, including the European funds, which have now been torn in half because of this border crossing point. What about these stories that only a bridge should be built for pedestrians and all necessary for it because it is a border. Who can I talk to about this? Where can we find a plan for future developments to connect our city centre logistically with both sides? Thank you and I hope for an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U41	Thank you. And now a vigilante from Southeast Estonia, Põlvamaa. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U42	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to agree in any way with what the Minister said that we should not look at the past. As if the inevitable situation had arisen, as if we had to accept it, that we had such a limit as Mr Ants Laaneots, who has said that it is completely unprotected and that Russian Special Forces have been experimenting and learning to cross this border for years. The Retired General is the kind of person we should either believe or deny his own claim. We cannot accept in any way that such a statement has been thrown into the air that NATO's eastern border is being used to organise exercises. This claim must be confirmed or rejected. But statistics show that the number of border offences is high. Today, too, some incidents took place on the Russian side of the border, probably now, and do not know which country's citizens were captured there. A few days or weeks ago, news appeared, for example, that four Vietnamese were found in the Estonian car on the Polish border. Is it really very difficult to understand where the border crossing took place and where these Vietnamese people began their journey? They certainly did not come from Estonia, but from another country. In this case, is it human trafficking? I think that this is a matter that cannot be taken condescendingly, and it is a state border that shows how solid the state is. A national border is also a national identifier. The fact that the brush there is unclean is, in my opinion, pure sloppy and incompetent, not even lack of money. From abroad alone, EUR 89 million has been granted to repair border facilities. For example, Kuperjanov's battalion soldiers could have been used to clear the border, who would gladly have organized field camps there and cleaned the border. The fact that this has not been done so far is, of course, not your fault, Minister, because your time has really been short, and I believe that you have the sincere will to fix it. But just because you have to accept it, everything is normal, and no one has to take responsibility, I don't agree.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U43	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu speech chair for Priit Toobali!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U44	Dear Vice-Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. As we understand from this debate, we agree on this issue that internal security is a very important issue, especially in the light of recent events. Whether it is the case of the so-called case of the case we have been talking about, or what is happening in other neighbouring countries, albeit with regard to the waterline, but still. The Minister promised that in a few years it would become clear whether the merger of the Police and Border Guard Board (PPA) met the objectives set at the time, in 2007, when this reform was being prepared. I look forward to it. Then it becomes clear whether the merger actually meets these objectives or whether the whole thing was essentially left unanalysed and wrong decisions were made. I agree with what Mr Tarmo Tamme said. We cannot blame the Minister in office for leaving the border unprotected or unsolved. I think I know the current Minister of the Interior as a good minister in earlier areas, whether the Ministry of Social Affairs or the Ministry of Justice. If these four items are completed with the control line marked, with the help of RMK, the boundary cleared, in a sense also increased manning, with better technology protection achieved and the special unit is started, and if it is really not only born from the inside of the PBA, then I think that these activities are certainly commendable. One thing I do not want to agree with, and to which the Minister referred, is that the Minister of the Interior has submitted one draft to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for discussion, according to which Parliament should give the Government of the Republic the right and the obligation to state the temporary reference line by means of its regulation. I think that as long as we have no ratification of the border agreement with the neighbouring country and we cannot set off the border, the temporary reference line is such an important issue for us that we should not give it to the government to decide. At present, the check line is only marked by the order of the then Head of the Border Guard Board. I think Parliament should retain this right. We will discuss this matter tomorrow in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. It stopped last week. The exact coordinates from which the control line runs should be recorded in the law. In my opinion, only Parliament should be the body that can change the line of reference in the future, apart from negotiations with other parties, the border. Such a right, in my opinion, should not be left or given to the government. I hope that in the debate that will come in the coming weeks within the framework of this draft law, we will repeat the same position and pass it on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U45	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U46	We are going to the next question, which is an inquiry by members of the Riigikogu, Mikhail Korbi, Siret Kotka, Viktor Vassilyev, Kalev Kallo, Tarmo Tamme and Valeri Korb, on the day of 23 September 2014 about the reform of the Police and Border Guard Board. The inquiry shall bear the number 433 and shall be answered by Minister of the Interior Hanno Pevkur. I ask Mikhail Korbi, representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu Chair, who will introduce the inquiry to the public!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U47	Dear Vice-Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! On behalf of the members of the Central Party Group, we have submitted an inquiry. This concerns the ongoing reform of the PBGB, which will eliminate a number of jobs on the pretext of austerity. Elmar Vaher, director of the Police and Border Guard Board, told Vikerraadio in the Midday Class programme that he saw no choice but to raise the salaries of his staff than to lay off in the organisation. The Police and Border Guard Board is currently the state institution with the largest workforce, where about 250 jobs are now being eliminated to save wages. There is no doubt that the country needs a strong and structured police institution to ensure internal security. This is ensured by the workers there through their knowledge and experience. The initial objective of the reform of the Police and Border Guard Board was to mobilise people to raise the minimum wage of police officers to at least EUR 900 per month. However, the launch of the reform did not mention the effects that severely weaken the quality of the police authority. At present, people who began the career structure of a police officer at the lowest level may be deprived of their jobs. Having gained experience and wisdom, they moved on to mid-level leadership. It means that, in the case of internal security, we have set a course not for quality, but for a direction that can prove very dangerous to society. So, the ongoing reform of the Police and Border Guard Board has become a pooling of knowledge, not of people. At the same time, the positions of the Ministry of the Interior, which, on the one hand, call on young people to choose careers in favour of an internal security officer's profession, remain confusing, while workers in the best years are made redundant, whose experiences are impressive. In view of the above, we have asked you questions and are waiting for substantive answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U48	Thank you. I now ask the Riigikogu's speech chair Hanno Pevkuri, Minister of the Interior of the Republic of Estonia, who will give, as requested by the questioner, substantive answers, which I do not doubt, because the minister always does. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U49	Mr Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, thank you for your trust. Dear heirs, thank you also for your questions. With regard to police reform, as an introduction, I basically support what the police are doing right now. In the Police and Border Guard Board, it is certainly vital that the people who work there are motivated and paid well. The 750 euros earned at a lower level today is not enough. The changes made by the Police and Border Guard Board itself resulted in savings of EUR 4.8 million. Next year's state budget, as I said in reply to the previous question, was to the tune of 4.5 million, we are currently excluding the exact amounts. In total, the staff fund of the Police and Border Guard Board has just under EUR 100 million this year, which means that disbursements are made every month for nearly EUR 9 million. With these changes and additional money from the state budget, the salary fund of the Police and Border Guard Board will increase by nearly 10%. It is quite a lot of money, and it is possible to make targeted decisions so that the lowest-level policemen no longer receive EUR 750, but hopefully receive 950. The exact figures will be clear after the Police and Border Guard Board has handled all its grades and looked at which position it will receive. But I very much hope that, in the order of EUR 930/950, a person coming to work for the police will be guaranteed. Either 750 or 950, that's a pretty big difference. I hope this will also give confidence to young people that the profession of a police officer is something they want to pursue. The first question concerns the structure of the police structure. If you look at the logic of the question, then basically also the Minister, because you ask me that if I were one of them, you can't expect him to be in office all the time. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Estonia, as in most democratic countries, could even say that in all democracies, it is temporary. Therefore, we cannot assume that one person's career only moves from the lower to the highest level, and even from the upper to the upper, it passes through the ceiling and moves forward. It is too simplistic an approach and certainly does not create an incentive atmosphere in the organisation. Once the organisation is built vertically, of course, it becomes so narrow at the top that the tension there is beginning to crumble the foundation. It is therefore also important to allow horizontal development. When you look at the planning of a police career, horizontal developments are generally also looked at. There are dozens and dozens of positions in the police, in which a young official can become a serious expert with continuous improvement and experience, and there is also a need to look at rotation, i.e. to move within the system. Question two. How many positions are there that will disappear during the reform, and how many policemen will leave? The total number of posts made redundant is 275 when we talk about posts rather than the total number of posts held. Of this 275, 196 were vacant or vacant posts. In fact, 79 police officers received a summary report. 32 police officers have been proposed to continue within the organisation, but they did not consider it possible to adopt this proposal. As far as I am aware, the Police and Border Guard Board has done its best to ensure that people in a redundancy situation have the best information possible for the labour market to be carried forward. For example, training and job search advice were offered to redundant interviewers, and many, as far as I know, used it. Some institutions or companies, such as Viru Prison and Estonian Post, also contacted the PBA themselves and were interested in people who are being made redundant. It also tried to communicate personally with everyone and, if possible, to find an outlet for them. One of the objectives of the reform was the reduction of central structural units, including a very clear reduction of management levels, and therefore, of course, the changes concerned the most senior employees who had already reached a leading position on the career path. However, as we know in the police system, positions are mainly at the forefront, and this could indeed be one of the reasons why those who received the notice of redundancy did not accept the second job offered to them. However, I would like to emphasise once again that all of this was aimed at ensuring that people who work on the front line were paid much more than hitherto. Question three. What are the other influences that society has to take into account after the question? It is important for society to take into account that this reform has led to a well-managed and strong regional police in particular, i.e. more rights were granted to county police stations as a result of this change. Surely society must take account of the fact that we have a more professional criminal police involved in the detection of hidden and organised crime. It must certainly be taken into account that the police, like most large organisations, serve residents on a service-based basis, i.e. allow more efficient integration of activities in different areas in order to create security as a whole. It must certainly be borne in mind that the change reduced the management costs of the PBGB and increased the money given to people working at the forefront. This, in turn, creates the assumption that the organisation of work will become a little simpler and, as I said, the management costs will thus be reduced. I'm sure you have to take into account that the police and border guard services are at the heart of a strong local department. It's the county leader who needs to know almost everything about what's going on in his county. Both wrongdoing and crime will be dealt with by a single team in the county precisely because a person in need would have one single and strong local police. The police themselves must take into account that until now they have had a pretty high level of confidence among the Estonian people, stablely over 80%. I believe that the police themselves must ensure that the same trust is maintained. The fourth question concerns the position of the Ministry or the opinion on whether the police are supporting this reform. I've met a lot of local policemen on my county visits. There are different opinions. But all these opinions and conversations with police officers, both at constable and county leader level and at the prefect level, have still led to one: Estonian police must ensure the best possible service in the circumstances we have, with the resources we have and with the people we have. After all, for people to be motivated and well - paid, these changes were made. Apart from the issue of money, it should also be taken into account that the police themselves believe that a revolutionary situation had developed within the organisation, the feeling that the old way could not be anymore, but there was also no clear idea of how to proceed. Therefore, perhaps the need for more money was one of the factors triggering the changes, but also basically helped to change the police organisation. Perhaps the levels of management and planning were reduced, service-based management was introduced and local or regional responsibilities were increased. So, aside from the issue of money, these three themes, the reduction of management-planning levels, service-based management and the increase of county responsibility, were the results of the last structural change. We give the police time, let them do their job, and if they can guarantee confidence in people with changes, then it is very good. Surely all people must have the knowledge that the Estonian police will help them when they need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U50	Minister, thank you. You have questions. Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U51	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, My question concerns the Eastern Prefecture. If I am not mistaken, I think in the spring we discussed this issue with you in this Chamber and with your predecessor even more. There were two key issues in the Prefecture of the East: on the one hand, the vacant seats, say, the unfulfilled composition, and on the other hand, the overburdened police officers, who were therefore required to carry out more tasks. How do you assess whether this solution you have proposed offers the hope that all these questions and problems related to the Eastern Prefecture will be resolved as a matter of urgency?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U52	Thank you. I think Prefect Vallo Koppel of the East has done a pretty good job. Those times, when I've spoken to him personally or discussed with the police authorities what's happening in East Prefecture, have given me a pretty good assurance that things are moving in the right direction there. I believe that the changes, also taking into account the extra wage coefficient for the eastern region, will help to ensure that, for example, a young police officer going to work in Ida-Viru County will receive at least EUR 1050 per month. This is already above the current average wage in Estonia, a pretty decent income. So I do have faith in the prefect, he's made very good decisions. I believe all these activities will contribute to solving the major concerns of the Eastern Prefecture. Add here the decision to establish the training base of the National Defence Academy, it will all lead to more law enforcement in Ida-Virumaa and their activities will give the Eastern virulans a clear assurance that the dwelling there is good and safe. Even if I was from Ida-Virumaa, I wouldn't be able to say that the situation is somehow bad. Ida-Virumaa is a very good place in Estonia to live. Public investment there will increase considerably in the coming years. Also from the measure to strengthen the competitiveness of the regions in the next programming period, we will direct an additional injection of funds to Ida-Viru County, which will highlight the whole region from other counties. So if I add up all the state's contributions to the Ida-Viru and police action, I believe that things are moving in the right direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U53	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much for your substantive answers. It was very interesting to hear your vision of a new reform. But I would also present my vision. You mentioned that 196 vacancies were made redundant. I would say that these were not vacant places, but vacant places, i.e. 196 policemen were missing in the Republic of Estonia at the beginning of the reform. You rightly said that the salaries of police officers must be raised from EUR 750 to at least EUR 950. I agree with you 100%. But this increase must be done in the light of the current circumstances and the current workload. At the moment, the workload of police officers is very high, one might say that at times it is extremely high. It is clear that, together with the salary increase, there will be more responsibilities for them. This is not just an increase in wages, because there is also an additional workload, and this must not be forgotten under any circumstances. It was said earlier that people were offered other jobs. Statistical figures are not large, 23 people gave up the offer. But I have a concrete example of one person who lives in Tallinn and also worked in Tallinn. He was offered a job in Ida-Virumaa and, of course, immediately asked how to organise his life. Do you want to go live in Ida-Virumaa and work there? What, then, should we do with the family? It's not like the raise he was promised, even though it wasn't a big one, because he was a little higher than a regular cop. When it is said that the salaries of police officers will be increased and the minimum wage first, the following question arises: what about middle-level managers? If middle management is offered lower seats, where's the logic? Some pay is increased and others, on the contrary, are reduced. This reform raises more questions than answers. Undoubtedly, the police are doing a very good job; they will certainly continue to do their maximum with the resources available. The Estonian police are currently the most reliable official body in the Republic of Estonia. But all that is going on right now is increasing the area, reducing the number of constables, makes the daily life of police real-time workers much more difficult. If the regions are getting bigger, how can we say that the response rate is increasing? Yeah, maybe the number of patrols is increasing. But if a police car has to travel from Mustamäe or Kristiine to Tabasalu, how much time does it take just to go through that road? I think that there are more questions than answers, and I am afraid that ultimately the result is still not what satisfies us all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U54	Thank you. I don't see any more calls, I'm closing the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U55	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U56	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! The aim of the reform is certainly to make very significant changes. One of the major goals of the changes is to bring the number of constables, let's say, to the average, so there's one constable on 10,000 people. About ten thousand people live on the island of Hiiumaa, for example. Don't you think one regional constable is a little short on 10,000 people?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U57	Thank you. You can't take it one-on-one like this. In that case, we should also unravel the actions that were previously carried out by the Constable and which, after the changes, will be undertaken by the district police officer. The main tasks of the police officer in the region, as far as I have understood the structural changes of the police, I hope that I have understood correctly, are to communicate with the people of my community, to know their concerns, to do prevention work and to be the first contact between the person and the police. In the past, traffic patrols were part of the constable's duties, including, where appropriate, the execution of criminal police duties. The division of tasks has now been clarified, which, yes, means that the range of activities of regional police officers has increased, but their tasks have also become more specific and they can focus specifically on promoting community-based police work.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U58	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U59	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. The subject is a little wider. It's just that the country is thin, there's no money, and internal security is suffering. I do not envy the Minister of the Interior or the head of the PBGB, who has to cope with limited resources. I'm asking how these two things fit together when the Road Administration announced about a week ago that over 6,000 drunk drivers were driving on our roads every day, but the next day, news came that we had a plan to bring together over 200 police officers. I would have expected news that the number of police officers would increase by 300 because it's the only way to tame drunk drivers. How do these two things work out?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U60	Thank you. Discretionary comparisons or assembly can certainly bring all sorts of things. What I'm looking at is that this police service we're offering would be as good as possible under the conditions we have. If you look at the time 20 years ago, there were 8500 people in the Estonian police and border guard system. Today, we can talk about some 4,000 to 4,500 people who serve people. So we serve the same number of people in the law enforcement system as we did 20 years ago, about twice the number of people in the law enforcement system. Agree that the number of inhabitants has also slightly decreased from 1.6 million to 1.3, but still. At the same time, I believe that the number of tourists may have increased by this percentage in tourist-rich areas, led by Harjumaa, is certainly higher. So we are doing our job with the resources we have to use in the Estonian police, and we will ensure the maximum possible number of patrols. The changes will also hopefully give us the possibility that we do not have to reduce the number of patrols. We have a hundred patrols a day outside, and with this amount we must ensure order on Estonian roads. But it all starts with people. Isn't that right? If we're gonna be happy to drive together as a drink, we're gonna put everyone else at risk. Those of you who are abstinence don't have a problem. Those who drive sober-headedly behave in a law-abiding manner. Those who drive drunk are already breaking the law while driving and must take into account that the handwriting of the police has become much harsher for drinkers. They're gonna take the car away.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U61	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U62	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Minister, thank you very much. Mr Tarmo, with his question, has already introduced the subject that I wanted to ask about, perhaps in traffic. If the number of road deaths in previous years has decreased every year, it is known and believed that this year, although it is not yet over, the road deaths, in contrast to what has happened before, will not be a fall, but a small leap up. This is very regrettable and bad. I also travel very often along the Tartu highway, several times every week, and I hardly see traffic patrols there. There are only traffic cameras, and we all know how they behave more slowly at the camera, but later the gas is pushed more. Do you see the connection between the small number of patrols and the increase in road deaths? If so, what should be done?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U63	Thank you. I have been looking very closely at the data on road deaths this year, as well as other accident deaths, both water and fire deaths. June this year was extraordinary, we didn't have any road deaths. One so-called questioning case was because it was not a classic accident, but an unfortunate case in Järvamaa, where the parent backed up the child. In other respects, this year's characterisation shows that January and February were very accident-rich. And there were very unfortunate accidents. Let us recall one of them, the Pibe on the highway just before Tartu, where a police bus ran into young students. The speed was very low, all the security requirements were met, the tires were fine, but still three dead. Another characteristic of this is that we had very little snow in January-February. In previous years, between January and February, there have been few deaths as a result of trips due to snow. If a snowfall was driven, it would be fine. Even when the car was damaged, people were cured inside. Accidents at the beginning of this year have shown that trips off the road, as the road has been slippery, have had tragic consequences. In addition, accidents with one driver still occur, i.e. either the misdirected speed and therefore the exit from the road, or the safety belts and the resulting death have not been used. Fortunately, we hope that the last two months will not bring anything tragic to the growth of such accidents. Last year, at the same time, I am now saying the 1st of October, which I have at hand, had 48 deaths, with 57 deaths in traffic this year. Fortunately, the difference is not very big; the greater difference came first and foremost from the spring months. Police patrols have not actually been reduced, traffic patrols are the same. Surely we are trying to be in dangerous places first and foremost. On the Tartu highway, where the road is better and there are also cameras, road safety as a whole is better than on some road sections where there must be more police officers. The police are also trying to assess the threat. I do not see a direct link between this reform and road deaths. Rather, I can see that we have reached the stage of improved supervision with road deaths, fire deaths and other accident deaths, but mostly it is the behaviour of the people themselves. The causes of death that occurred during the year have also been caused many times by a person's health problems while driving. In order for fewer accidents to occur, we need to achieve a general understanding among drivers to be aware of how the steering wheel is being driven, whether security equipment is being used and everything that comes with a good traffic culture is being done.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U64	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U65	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. When Mr Elmar Vaher, Director-General of the Police and Border Guard Board, went to our group to talk about these problems, he mentioned that it would take EUR 3.7 million to raise the minimum wage for police officers to at least EUR 900. But when we talk about the decision taken today by the Ministry of Defence, according to which 2.05% of GDP will go to defence costs, it is as if there is no problem. Does this mean that in our country, the Ministry of Defence is better insured with money than the Ministry of the Interior?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U66	Thank you. It was a national security decision that the Estonian state contributes 2% to national defence, plus the support of the host state for the Allied forces here. It was a decision of principle. I would certainly be very pleased if I could also say on internal security costs that the Estonian state is contributing 2% of its gross domestic product. As Minister of the Interior, I would be very happy about that, but that means it has to come at the expense of something or someone. And this decision can only be made here in the Chamber of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U67	Minister, thank you, there are no further questions. I'm opening negotiations. The speech chair of the Riigikogu, Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U68	Good fellows, there's a quick-fingered round of fingers now. Anyone who wants to sign up for an appearance in a free microphone, do it after the hammer hit! Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U69	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to touch one embarrassing and perhaps even painful incident in Stenbock's house today with a few sentences. In fact, as the media announced yesterday and all the channels spoke this morning, people with disabilities came back to Toompea to claim their rights and ask for the mercy of the state fathers. It was raining, the Prime Minister couldn't come out to the people, and he invited the Bureau of the Disabled to Stenbock's house to talk to them in his office or office. Then the bitter fact became clear that the disabled were not able to enter the house with wheelchairs. Since no real road was made there, temporary rails or rails were placed, and this created a struggle and an unpleasant moment. The incident is extremely symbolic. If this were to be taken apart, then this means that our government has never intended to turn face to face towards the people of this part of the people who are the sickest of us, I would say, the poorest, the poorest, and certainly the most unhappy. Those with no hands or no legs or crippled the whole body, our government doesn't want to meet. Today we talked in this hall that in 23 years the border has not been constructed. We have now seen that, for 23 years, there has also been no connection between the government and the invalids or, as is now fashionable, between people with disabilities. This is an extremely sad worrying fact and even embarrassing reputation of the Estonian state. Perhaps even the international news channels will reach that the Estonian Prime Minister will not be able to receive people with disabilities, as no suitable entrances have been built to Toompea Stenbock's house. As naive as this situation was the Prime Minister's response to the disabled. According to what has been in the media today, he was unable to answer them. People came with serious concerns, and they were accompanied by a conversion that had already been signed by 3,500 people. They came back to Toompea again because the Riigikogu would not accept or start working at all in the Hall of Toompea Castle with a new law. The petition has been signed by a large number, about 20 people. I quote: 'The turning point points out that the planned work capacity reform of the state is dangerous to society when it is launched in its current form (the word 'dangerous' is in it. H.L.) and that the necessary preparatory work must be carried out before the reform is launched when planning a reform of the social policy that is of fundamental importance. " The preliminary work has not been done. If we draw parallels, just as we are 23 years late in establishing a state border, we are too late in this work. I would remind you that the preliminary work should have been done by the former Minister for Social Affairs, the current Prime Minister of the country, Taavi Rõivas. Today, he apologized to the disabled and promised that something would be smoothed, i.e. some way he would try to correct the law, but said that it would still go into the process. It's actually criminal. The wishes and prayers of people with disabilities should not be met, because we do not have another one so weak. I will read out the number of organisations that ask for help from the state and say, "Wait a minute, we will talk through this law once and for all: the Association of Estonian Careers, the Association of Estonian Guide Dogs Users, the Estonian Kurtite Association, the Estonian Association of People with Impairments, etc. Once again, the worst of us are asking the state for help, but the country's ears are deaf. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U70	Thank you. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu, Karel Rüütel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U71	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to talk about an increase in the minimum wage to EUR 800 per month. I meet people from week to week and day, both in different parts of Estonia and between Helsinki and Tallinn. In addition to security, the main topic for discussion is often family management, people leaving Estonia, low wages, unemployment. There is no one to whom these concerns do not concern. Let us acknowledge that there has been no progress in the Estonian economy hoped for over a dozen years. Our competitiveness vis-à-vis other countries has not improved, export growth has stopped, prices have increased faster than wages and the number of people living abroad has doubled over the last five years. If we want the Estonian economy and competitiveness to grow faster than before, the state must also deliberately direct economic processes and take the role of an active leader instead of a passive observer. In most cases, Kalevipoegs are employed in Finland and Linda is not unemployed when living in Estonia either. They were family fathers and mothers of the best working age, who simply failed to cope with their family's livelihoods and expenses because of their low incomes. Stories are all kinds of things, but often there are new problems with working across borders. The price of better economic security is often the cost of children growing and neglecting without a mother or father, broken families and broken people. Estonia's competitiveness can be improved by improving the level of corporate governance and increasing productivity, export capacity and wages. In the coming years, EAS and KredEx will contribute more than EUR 350 million to achieving these goals. We should also aim to ensure that a large proportion of Estonian workers participate in at least one further training with the support of the state over the next few years, enabling them to develop and improve their skills. We can now talk about thousands of people who have moved across the bay with their entire family and whose connection with Estonia has remained modest. At a time when we are looking for a cure for the slow decline of our people, a considerable number of Estonian children are born either in Finland or abroad. In order to reduce emigration and help people, the Social Democrats proposed the idea of bringing the minimum wage to EUR 800 per month in the coming years. Yes, it is a remarkable increase, but an extremely necessary increase. It is a disgrace that at present, after tax, a person has a lower amount than the relative poverty threshold. Full - time work doesn't even guarantee coping, let alone well - being. The most valuable resource in Estonia is human assets and deserves recognition that employers also treat employees in their manifesto as the largest asset in the company. It is only with the help of people that it is possible to create more value in business, increase productivity and progress in the competitive chain. The Social Democrats agree fully with employers on this. In summary, the words 'wage' and 'poverty' do not match. A person working eight hours a day must not receive a minimum wage or be poor. It is not normal for a person working to have to turn to the state or local government for assistance after payday. The number of people who earn 355 euros per month in full-time employment in Estonia is approximately 40,000 to 60000. The salary of 355 euros per month means that the employee receives 300 euros. According to 2012 statistics, those with a net income of less than EUR 329 per month lived in relative poverty. There's something to think about. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U72	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu to speak to Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U73	Ladies and gentlemen, There was quite a lot of information about oil shale and its processing last week. I believe that we should discuss these issues more here, and I also think that turning to the kapo on this issue is perhaps not the best course of action. But the Riigikogu is going to have negotiations on what we have to discuss next year, and we have to think together with the government that we will soon have a development plan for the use of oil shale, the law on the ground, etc. When we are talking about the conversion of oil shale, we need to talk about three centres related to oil shale problems: Eesti Energia, Kiviõli Chemical Industry and Viru Chemistry Group. Since Viru Chemistry Group is closest to me and I have seen what is happening in this company, I say this, ladies and gentlemen and listeners, that Viru Chemistry Group AS has the best and most modern oil shale processing complex in Estonia as of 2014 and I believe in the world as well. This covers the entire oil shale processing value chain, from extraction of mineral resources to production of fuel, chemicals, heat and electricity for the final consumer. Ladies and gentlemen, Over the last ten years, the Viru Chemistry Group has invested nearly EUR 100 million to meet environmental requirements and EUR 700 million to expand and modernise production. Think how much trouble and money it's cost, but the job's done. Viru Chemistry Group employs 2,250 people directly and indirectly, through the purchase of services, there are four more times the same number of people, mainly from Ida-Viru county. In 2014, Ojamaa and Sompa extract the entire annual limit of 3 million tonnes of oil shale. The capacity to recycle oil shale at the Viru Chemistry Group oil plant has been 4.3 million tonnes per year since 2016. So the difference is 1.3 million tonnes. In 2009, the Viru Chemistry Group launched a new generation oil plant Petroter I, a second similar plant completed in summer 2014 and a third oil plant will be launched in 2015. The construction of one Petroter plant costs approximately €67 million depending on the configuration. One plant makes it possible to process 900 tonnes of oil shale per year and produce 110 tonnes of oil shale oil, in addition to gas and high-pressure steam for electricity production and heating water for cities. Compared to other oil shale companies' investments, forecasts and technological developments, the Viru Chemistry Group has been faster and more effective in expanding and modernising oil shale processing. Given the capital intensity of the construction of the oil plant, investments to achieve an adequate return and to bring production to full capacity as quickly as possible are essential. The Viru Chemistry Group has taken the optimal technical risk of building an oil plant and has been able to prove its capability to funders. According to the information available, the total investment of Petroter's plant for the reprocessing of one tonne of oil shale is more than twice as low as for the Enefit technology. At the same time, the energy efficiency of the two comparable technologies and the oil extraction are the same. The factory can be built faster, and based on the experience of Viru Chemistry Group, nominal capacity can be achieved by starting it within one month and reaching productivity within 12 months of completion. I understand I'm out of time right now, but we'll keep talking in the next briefing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U74	Thank you. Lembit Kaljuvee, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U75	Mr. Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, who are in this Chamber and who are listening in your rooms or watching our sitting in the Riigikogu via television! Indeed, here in the Riigikogu's board and also in the press, the most talk has been about the cohabitation law in October of this year. Of course, the oil shale sector that Valeri Korb was talking about has also had some serious events during October. One Valeri said it was the opening of the Petroter plant in Kohtla-Järve. But it was also a very big event that in October the flagship of our business became the new leader of Eesti Energia. It slipped through the media once, but this remote hasn't been discussed yet. The third very serious issue that chemists have raised is what is happening in Kohtla-Järve. After all, this is basically a mutiny. People come to the streets and they're chasing their rights. It is required that the State does not raise taxes. Indeed, the company has three major influences: first the state, then the most important, the market, then the owners. As a longtime head of the company, I can say that if these three attack at once, you have to get your hands up, because then the company will be finished. At the moment, there is a situation where the market does not support this sector and the state does not support it, and taxes are increased. This isn't how the company's gonna make it. So the cry for help from the company's employees must be taken seriously. The state must take this seriously. I know that the country is negotiating environmental taxes. But unfortunately, according to my information, it is now that both sides are joking and it is very difficult to reach an agreement. I want to address the politicians here. My message to politicians is this: in a situation where the oil market is really going down for a long time and there is no evidence that the market is not going to grow in the near future, even in the next few years, environmental taxes should not be increased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-20_U76	Thank you. Any more wishes to play in a free microphone? No, it's not. The free microphone's closed. Good fellows, thank you. Today's trial is over. I wish you strength in your work! Closure of the sitting at 4.49 p.m.
