ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U1	Hi! Power! Question Time. Requesting presence check! 38 members of the Riigikogu are present, 63 are absent. Minister of Defence Sven Mikser participates in Question Time in the duties of Prime Minister, Minister of Finance Maris Lauri and Minister of Agriculture Ivari Padar. Four members of the Riigikogu have registered as a questioner and it makes sense to submit two additional questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U2	The first questioner is Kadri Simson, and the question is to the Minister of Defence in charge of the Prime Minister Sven Mikser. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U3	Thank you. Dear Sven Mikser! My question concerns the tax system. As we know, most European Union countries have progressive income tax, the only exceptions are Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Bulgaria, Romania and Hungary. In Estonia, only the Centre Party has transferred the draft progressive income tax to the Riigikogu. We've started it several times. The Social Democrats haven't done that so far, but yesterday you introduced your plan. I would like to know more about how you see progressive income tax. Do you see this as an opportunity to collect a lower tax on people with lower incomes than before or vice versa, and you think that a higher level of income should be allocated to the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U4	Thank you, Honourable Asker. As a Social Democrat, I naturally support progressive taxation. However, this is a much broader concept than the mere graduation of personal income tax. Once again, as a social democrat, I do not view the objective of taxation very narrowly, i.e. either as a means of creating greater social justice and social security or as a means of obtaining revenue for the state budget. I think that the revenue side of the budget is extremely important for the functioning of one country. Nearly all countries around the world use taxation as a source of fiscal revenue, taxes on income, taxes on consumption, taxes on assets, taxes on vices. In addition to earning budget revenue, taxes also have other objectives, such as directing people to sustainably consume, not harming their health through the use of drugs, etc. Of course, we should not ignore the principle that, apart from the tax to be paid, account should also be taken of the amount of income that a person may have in his or her ability to pay taxes. As a Social Democrat, I also attach great importance to this principle. It is certainly important, on the one hand, to ease the tax burden on people who, because of their low income, have to apply for social benefits to support themselves and their families. On the other hand, it is reasonable to ask for a somewhat higher tax on those who earn significantly higher than the average.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U5	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U6	Thank you. Dear Sven Mikser! I fully agree with you that, at the moment, the tax burden on people is unequally distributed and that it is too high for people with lower incomes. But when you come back to progressive income tax, you have proposed that the share of income of a natural person exceeding EUR 1600 per month be taxed at 29%, i.e. at a higher tax rate. Please explain whether the higher rate is set for gross income exceeding EUR 1600 or taxable income.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U7	Thank you. Just as I know you have offered, the progressive tax models of social democrats are based on the principle that the share of income that exceeds a certain amount in one calendar month is taxed at the next level of taxation. By the way, in an interesting detail, the IRL has also included in its graduated income tax model a different taxation of income components, such as the share of income from zero to 500 euros, but the next share of income, up to 846 euros, is taxed at an unusually high rate of 40%. We have foreseen that in one calendar month, an amount of income exceeding EUR 1600 will, of course, be paid on an annual basis at a rate of 29%. It is certainly also justified to review this amount year after year and to adjust it to the increase in average wages as well as the cost of living.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U8	Kadri Simson, another question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U9	Thank you. In your first reply, you mentioned that people are also able to win by other taxes, and I noticed that you were no longer talking about VAT in the tax programme introduced yesterday. If, in the past, there have been proposals for a regressive reduction of VAT in your election programme, then there have now been no proposals. You have no longer talked about reducing VAT on previously authorised food products, medicines or cultural events. Have the Social Democrats, while in government, abandoned the reduction in VAT rates for such important groups of goods?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U10	Certainly, when drawing up the tax package, the tax programme must be very closely monitored in order to ensure that the promised is also responsible. The Socialist Tax Package is. Of course, different times require different solutions. A lot of attention has been drawn to the fact that labour taxes should be reduced in Estonia. The Social Democrats have taken this problem to the fullest extent and we have offered a number of social tax differentiations in our tax programme. On the one hand, for those whose competitiveness on the labour market is less than normal and for whom health insurance is guaranteed without an employment relationship, we foresee an exemption from the social tax from the health insurance component. On the other hand, since the employment register has now been successfully implemented, we suggest that if you work part-time, you could opt out of the so-called "minimum rate" for the pension insurance part of the social tax and collect the pension insurance tax according to the person's actual workload. In addition, we have also considered the specificity of regional social tax. These measures fulfil a number of very good objectives. Firstly, it encourages part-time work, because there are people for whom employers may not be looking very well at finding work in the first place if they are not able to work full-time. Secondly, it will help people with less competitiveness to enter the labour market. Third, it allows jobs to develop and stay outside larger centres, outside Tallinn and Harjumaa. So, of course, tax distinctions, tax reductions at different rates, serve a number of purposes. This is precisely what we consider to be extremely important at this time in terms of employment and job creation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U11	Thank you, Minister. Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U12	Thank you, esteemed performer. The progressive income tax is very important to us, and I am thinking above all of our country, purely based on the principles of social justice. Of course, disputes about taxes are equally important. However, it seems to me that instead of changing the tax system, we should talk more about bringing revenue to the Estonian state. In my opinion, EUR 8.4 billion for our incomes is not a very large amount. Figuratively speaking, the Republic of Estonia should earn more, then there would be more to share. How do you think we're gonna do that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U13	Thank you. Of course, making a profit is extremely important. I would point out that the success of countries today is not only measured by growth indicators, although it is also an important component. Economic growth is known to be often cyclical and a very rapid growth phase may be followed by a period of decline or long-term stagnation. If we measure the success of countries, the UN Human Development Index is one of the good indicators that, apart from economic growth, takes into account a number of other indicators, such as life expectancy, healthy life years, education, access to education, both formally and informally. In this index, Estonia became the world's top thirty even before the big crisis, in the boom years. Unfortunately, in times of crisis, but also in times of recovery from the crisis, we are in a state of stagnation. I think that the key now is to focus on those areas where we are far behind the European average, but also from the developed countries of the world. These are real quality of life indicators. There is certainly a need to pay attention to the creation of jobs in Estonia, especially'smart jobs', and to be able to invest in them. Jobs that generate high added value should be created so that the resulting services-goods can be exported and sold expensively. Then there will also be prosperity for the people of Estonia. So I agree that earning income is important and that the country's success is determined by a number of factors. We may seem very successful in certain areas, but at the same time we have areas that hinder development, which should not be overlooked in addition to enjoying overall success.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U14	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U15	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Minister of Defence in the role of Prime Minister! In most countries of the world, the country's tax revenue largely consists of direct taxes, i.e. taxes on assets and taxes on assets, with a smaller proportion of indirect taxes, i.e. excise duties and VAT. In Estonia, on the contrary, 60% of the state's tax revenue is indirect taxes, i.e. excise duties and VAT, and a smaller proportion is income tax. This means that since the poor are always considerably more than the rich, it is probably the law of nature, the poorer part of the Estonian population makes a greater contribution to the state's livelihood. Please explain to us why it is good for the people of Estonia that it is the poorer people who are making a greater contribution to sustaining their country.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U16	Thank you. I certainly don't think that's good. If we look at the so-called tax wedge, we can see that a person earning average income in Estonia has been taxed relatively similarly to the 'European average'. At the same time, for example, someone earning two thirds of the average income has been taxed somewhat above the European average. Yes, it confirms your statement that we pay relatively, let's say even unusually high taxes, precisely those people who make a small profit if we count all taxes together. It is clear that, for example, VAT with little distinctions means that people earning low incomes spend most of their income on purchasing essential goods and services, which are taxed at the full rate of VAT. Therefore, they contribute much more to their income through VAT than those who earn more and do not spend much of their income in Estonia for the purchase of goods and services subject to VAT. However, if we take away and analyse the issue raised by your colleague, Kadri Simson, from the lower rate of VAT on food, we will see that the winnings that we receive are part of the public revenues that people are given back or left in their hands, too, reach the pockets of those whose income is higher than the average. So in this option, it is worth analysing very seriously the feasibility of such an advantage before it is introduced. There are certainly ways to ease the relative tax burden on people with lower incomes. I think that general progressive taxation is one of the ways to do it in the most sensible and fair way.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U17	The number of additional questions allowed has been used. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U18	The next questioner is Sven Sester and the question is for Finance Minister Maris Lauri. Please, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister of Finance! The budget has now been adopted, but we must still look to the future, also in monetary policy. My question relates to the balance between our state budget and all our finances. Indeed, when we criticised this issue during the budgetary procedure and said that the budget was nominally negative, we were reassured by the information that there was at least a structural balance and even a structural positive surplus. It later turned out that the European Commission gave an indication that we were actually in a negative position. Then we began to be reassured by the fact that at least Eesti Pank estimates that everything is okay. On the basis of information from last week, it is now clear that Eesti Pank has spoken in its press release about the structural deficit and the resulting need for consolidation, which may require us to raise taxes or limit costs. Thus, Eesti Pank also considers that the situation is not so rosy. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U20	Thanks to the questioner! The assessments of the Estonian budget balance by the Ministry of Finance are in line with what some international institutions have done, including the IMF, OECD, as well as Eesti Pank. Therefore, the Commission's view that our budget balance is poor and weak is, as we know, that they value our economic cycle differently. I don't know how the questioner thinks, but I think that the unemployment rate of 10 to 11% is normal in Estonia's conditions. This is based on the Commission's assessment of the budgetary balance. It is strange to think that our unemployment could be much lower. Therefore, I trust more about the IMF, the OECD, the Ministry of Finance and Eesti Pank's assessment. I would remind you that Eesti Pank's budget balance assessments are nevertheless supported by the Ministry of Finance. The fact that Eesti Pank pointed out problems that may arise in changed economic circumstances is natural. We too see that the budget can suffer if economic conditions turn out to be worse than what we see ahead. At the same time, I would remind you that the Ministry of Finance's economic forecast is quite conservative and that all the facts have been taken into account in the risk scenario, too, that things can get worse.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U21	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U22	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary! Now we are back on the ground that you say, let us trust the Bank of Estonia. I also trust Eesti Pank. But they have said that we are already in a situation where we have a potential deficit. That's last week's information. I wonder why we need someone's third assessment, in this case, the European Commission's assessment, if we rely solely on the opinion of our national experts. Why is there even a need for six-pack and two-pack monitoring and independent assessment in Europe? In my opinion, we have agreed, according to the latest European rules of play, that we will follow the opinion of an independent expert and this will provide an opportunity to look much more conservatively at the countries that have faced the problems. Are you or are you no longer based on Europe? Would you be so kind as to comment?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U23	Thanks for asking. The structural balance of the budget is known to be based on an assessment of the cyclicality of GDP, i.e. what normal, or potential, growth is. Potential growth is not a specific size that can be measured. This will be assessed through different models. There is no unambiguously accepted model for assessing it. No one, no matter how big or highly valued economists, has a single understanding of what the most appropriate method is. Each method has its pros and cons, weaknesses and strengths. In this case, I would also argue that several Estonian people, as well as Eesti Pank, IMF and OECD, point to the fact that the European Commission's assessment or method, which it uses in the same way for all, is not the most correct in Estonia's circumstances. We take into account that they see things differently. We have also always informed the Commission and pointed to methodological uncertainties that must be taken into account. We hope that at some point these methods will be considered and that problems will be reviewed. We have also proposed that the Commission publish its methodology in the future so that we can take the same methodology and calculations into account when drawing up our budget. We are now using the method that we find to be the most reliable, useful and correct, but the Commission is using a different one. If we were to use the Commission's method, we would be able to draw up a more precise, correct budget. I hope that the Commission will take account of our proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U24	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U25	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary! Do not use what is more useful to you, but use what is more objective. I think it's going to do a lot better in life. I have one more question for you, it concerns potential economic growth and it is directly linked to monetary policy, because it gives us a future indication. Indeed, by looking at the forecasts for growth for the next year, we will see that the later the forecast, the more pessimistic it is. This trend has been shown by many forecasters in recent years, including the Ministry of Finance. It can now be seen that Eesti Pank's latest forecast has fallen again, and this is even lower than the one-time forecast of the Ministry of Finance on the basis of which the budget was put together at the time. That's why I'm asking you. At what moments will the head of the finance minister start to burn, and he says, "Wait a minute, let's go over the costs." I'm not saying that this should be the case right now, but I really am interested in your opinion as Minister of Finance. When do we say that the growth forecast or the reality is already such that we should start with some kind of cost-cutting programme? Please, please, give me an overview of this as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U26	First of all, as a remark, we certainly do not choose what is more favourable to us, but what we think is right. Coming to your question, I say that economic forecasts are forecasts. The word 'forecast' means conjecture. Assumptions about the future can never be accurate and it is natural that they pass. If we look at projections in the long term, there are times when forecasts are constantly below expectations and there are periods where expectations are systematically exceeded. Right now, we're in a situation where everyone's hoping things will get better. Unfortunately, this has not always been the case. We don't know when it's gonna be the moment when things are going to turn out as predicted or better. In order to assess this, our daily work is to monitor various indicators and attributes, different processes, such as analysing tax receipts. Tax receipts have so far been as expected, with some tax receipts even better. This shows that there is certainly no reason to worry now about whether or not budget revenue is full and whether there are problems with it. The Ministry of Finance makes regular economic forecasts twice a year. If necessary, additional assessments and calculations will be made if more serious problems are identified. One way is to monitor VAT receipts and I am pleased to say that they have so far been as expected and even better. So right now, I don't see why I'm dealing with cuts. But it's one place you should always watch. There are, of course, other indicators.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U27	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U28	Honourable Chairman! Dear Minister, Last week we adopted the state budget for next year. The new budgetary process in the European Union now requires the European Commission to evaluate the budgetary plans of the Member States. I know that the Commission's assessments of Member States' budgets, including the Estonian budget, were discussed by the Council of Finance Ministers, where you also participated. Could you describe what the finance ministers think about the budgetary plans of the Member States for next year? Did they say anything about Estonia's budget plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U29	Thanks for asking. As we know, the European Commission divided the countries into three groups: those where there were no problems; those where there were some doubts, i.e. 'border bounds'; those where there were problems. In addition, three countries were specifically introduced, namely France, Belgium and Italy, which are asked for further questions. It was the third group that came up with questions. They were discussed, and these countries long and wide explained what plans they had, where they were strong, in which they thought the Commission had been wrong and what they have already done. There were no questions about the first two groups, there were no disputes, and this also concerns Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U30	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U31	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Minister of Finance! The debt of the Estonian state sector is, as we know, rather small. At the same time, it is known that private sector debt is quite high, as far as I know, even slightly higher than GDP. You know the exact number, I don't. However, there are countries where the opposite is true of the public sector in large debt, but citizens and companies hardly have any debts. The brightest example is Greece, which we all helped. Please tell me whether, as your Minister of Finance, you think that the government whose responsibility you share will continue until March and perhaps continue to pursue this policy, that it is preferable to let the people in debt precisely in order to keep the state budget balanced at all costs, even though it cannot be committed or brought on by people.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U32	Thanks for asking. I must point out that the honourable member of the Riigikogu has very wrong data. First of all, the debt of the Estonian private sector has been constantly falling and has not increased at all; it is considerably smaller than our GDP. Secondly, it is true that there are countries where sovereign debt is higher than private debt. However, for problem countries (including Greece), the situation is such that both the private sector and the public sector are in debt. This is the greatest threat if both sectors are in trouble. Our public sector's debt is modest, which, by the way, allows Estonian companies to borrow in order to invest. Businesses always need to take out loans for investment because they never have enough own resources. The volume of one-off investments in the short term is always very large. It's very difficult to collect this amount in advance, you still have to make an investment with a loan and then go on. The fact that our level of credit in the private sector is'stable' and, as I said, very fast down in recent years, shows that we do not have any problems. If we compare our private debt with that of many other countries, it is very normal. As an economic analyst, I would even say that in our private sector the debt burden could be higher, i.e. companies in particular could invest more, as they create new jobs and new growth opportunities.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U33	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U34	The next questioner is Helir-Valdor Seeder and the question is for the Minister of Agriculture Ivari Padar. Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U35	Thank you. Dear Minister, As of 1 January 2015, the Government Coalition has decided to tax agricultural subsidies and even loss of income benefits for natural persons, such as the NATURA area. This places natural persons in an unequal position compared to self-employed persons and companies, as self-employed persons have the possibility to deduct costs of seed, fertiliser, fuel, etc. before paying taxes, but are no longer able to do so. Please tell me why the Ministry of Agriculture proposed this. I know, in my time, some of the target groups in the sector came up, not to mention pressure from the Ministry of Finance, several times with the same idea of collecting taxes for the country, which are very small, and creating an unequal situation. For what reasons did you finally decide that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U36	Thanks for asking. This is one of the tax changes decided upon when the coalition agreement was made in the spring of this year. So in this case, we cannot talk about the very bright initiative of the Ministry of Agriculture. But speaking of the amendment, in my understanding, the first half of this, which concerns the taxation of the single area payment as well as the taxation of a natural person, can be taken clearly and logically. It is clear that single area payment can be taken as a "income-free' income and this will bring greater clarity to the sector as a whole. However, I, too, am not satisfied with the other party to the amendment that, from 1 January, income called lost income will be taxed. I am certainly working to find a solution, even in the form of a law amendment, to remedy this situation. I admit that the current approach is not the best one.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U37	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U38	Thank you. After all, this is not only a direct grant and a loss of income benefit, but also a grant for grazing and other benefits received by natural persons. Besides, only active farmers with animals can actually get them. So, in my opinion, this problem is wider and more unfair. Did I understand correctly from your answer, Mr Minister, that you and the Social Democrats are prepared to abolish this tax, which brings EUR 1.5 million to the state budget, not more than a year, and affects more than half of the applicants for the grant? Are you ready to create a level playing field for all farmers in case you should be freed from the yoke of the Reform Party after the elections?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U39	Thank you, dear questioner. As regards one side of the taxable income, i.e. the income of agriculture, whether it is called the OPT or other income related to agriculture, I see no reason to change the law. There is a reason for a legislative amendment, particularly in the area of loss of income. For example, in the case of environmental subsidies, it is clear that this is not so-called philosophically correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U40	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U41	Thank you. The last question I have is about the sugar fine. As we know, the Estonian state has long debated with the European Commission about the fine and the sugar fine for other stocks. With regard to other stocks, we finally achieved the right and this money has been repaid to the Estonian state, but it represented a smaller part of the fine. The sugar fine was much higher and its disputes remained with the previous government. The previous cabinet decided that if the Commission did not have a clear positive response to our request for a refund of the sugar fine, which is to a large extent similar to that of other stocks, the court would be seised. Can you tell me how far this government has this business?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U42	Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U43	Thank you. Let me put it this way: more or less at the stage of the dispute, as it was when you left the government, it is now. We have not received a clear position from the Commission and we will continue to follow the same logic. If we find out how the sugar fine is treated, we'll take the next steps.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Austet Minister of Agriculture! Estonia received additional support from the European Union for milk producers due to problems in the eastern market. Is it now clear on what basis this aid is awarded, by litre or by number of animals? Is there a difference between larger and smaller producers?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U45	Thank you. The answer is, today we're going to make this information public. I can talk right here about how we foresee an additional allocation of nearly EUR 7 million. The distribution is based on the quota milk of August, September and October, on which we count it per kilogram. We are applying a differentiated approach to smaller milk producers, for whom we count the quota-based milk premium of 4.56 euro cents per kilogram. For anyone who goes more than 200000 kilograms over a three-month period, the rate of aid shall be 4,0 cents per kilo of milk. News about this is coming out today, the decision has been made. The payment is scheduled for January-February. It's not because of the election, it's just the logic that we can't pay it sooner. After that, we will, of course, continue to negotiate with the European Commission on all the crisis measures relating to milk production.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U46	Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U47	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear Minister, I will continue on the same issue of grants. Looking at the changes in the last few days, the changes in the financial market towards our eastern neighbour, we can see that we still have very large quantities going from us to Russia, albeit not directly, but through Lithuanian purchasers. How do you see, in the current market situation, that if we receive EUR 7 million of support, is enough? It must also be borne in mind that spring sowing is coming soon, although cheaper fuel is now slightly compensating for the situation of farmers. Is the €7 million grant sufficient or not for now?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U48	Thank you. As far as fuel is concerned, of course, we are in a golden age, there is nothing to complain about. However, as I said, EUR 7 million will compensate for part of the loss of income in 2014. Negotiations will certainly continue with the European Commission to implement emergency measures. On the other hand, I say that raising the aid in particular in the dairy sector looks sometimes like wearing a vicious water. This usually means that just as much as you increase support, prices are falling in some reprocessed industry. This is actually a bigger problem for Estonian agriculture. As far as the Russian market is concerned, of course, it is close and attractive. But even if the Russian market should open again and when it comes to deciding how much we are going back to this market, my deep recommendation to the entire agricultural sector in Estonia is this: nine times to measure and one time to cut. In any case, the current situation is positive in that it has pulled us out of the comfort position and made us look for new markets. That's what we do.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U49	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U50	The next questioner is Margus Tsahkna and the question is the Prime Minister's role for the Minister of Defence. Please, Margus Tsahkna!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U51	Thank you. I ask my question at the request of disabled people's organisations and this relates to an article published in the Eesti Päevaleht, entitled 'The organisations of disabled people received money from those who did not object to the reform'. The total number of people with disabilities organisations is 16 and they have received equal annual support. The article shows that social democrats have made changes according to which taxpayers' money from the state budget is divided into only a selected part of disability organisations. How do you justify, or according to which you have made such a choice, that it is precisely these organisations of the disabled that will receive additional state budget support and many others will not receive it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U52	Thank you, Honourable Asker. As far as I know, grants to various organisations were entered into the state budget between second and third readings, i.e. when the Government of the Republic no longer participated in the state budget processing process. If you ask for my opinion, of course, the more the Riigikogu finds during the budgetary procedure, the more money to support the organisations that do the work that is worthwhile, the better, be the association of homeowners or associations of people with disabilities. Grants must, of course, comply with the basic budget law. In different years, the Riigikogu has indeed found money for organisations, but not only for them. It is also very worthwhile to find an opportunity to support some local government investments and objects. But being here today as Minister of Defence in charge of Prime Minister duties, I would like to step out of my role very far if I were to evaluate which amendments the Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Riigikogu or the House considers necessary to support and which amendments do not.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U53	Margus Tsahkna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U54	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. You are also chairman of the Social Democratic Party, and that is why I am asking these questions so that you can explain. If you look at the proposals that were made by the Sociers, this article simply reveals to you that it is precisely those organisations who later supported the reform of the capacity to work that received additional support. Those who opposed the reform and expressed the views of their members did not receive support. That is why, as a member of the Riigikogu, I ask you whether there is any connection to this subject. Unfortunately, as a member of the Riigikogu, I have also had to explain that we do not buy votes or influence organisations with state budget allocations. What is your position on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U55	As far as I know, there's no such connection. I must honestly admit that I have not, of course, been very attentive to the debate on the reform of working capacity and the content of what organisations or individuals have been involved in debates or demonstrations, whether in favour or against the reform. I am fully aware that the reform has received a great deal of attention, including acute criticism from a number of organisations. But I cannot comment on the links between the state budget funding of organisations and their support or non-support.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U56	Ladies and gentlemen, you are free to ask what you want, but I would like to remind you that this is first and foremost a Question Time for Members of the Government. Margus Tsahkna, another question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U57	Thank you. Let me ask you a little bit more. There are 16 disability organisations, as I said, and they represent over 100,000 people. Among them, there is indeed a serious suspicion that the will of certain organisations is politically influenced. How do you feel about this as a member of the government, especially when it relates to the Social Democratic Party? As we know, politics must be fair, but it must also look fair. Was such a policy and such a step justified, or does it require more clarification?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U58	Thank you. I think that the process of processing the Riigikogu needs full clarity, and that has been the case for years. The clearer, the better. I'm sure there's more to it. On the issue of money in the press, which is considered to be 'roof money', I say this: according to the basic law, one of the drafts of the state budget is the exclusive right of the Government of the Republic to initiate. The amendments to be made in the Riigikogu are also subject to very strict rules. Changes to increase costs must also be accompanied by a proposal to increase revenue or to reduce any other expenditure. In my view, it is absolutely inevitable that the state budget as a whole is a political document which, in the form proposed by the government, reflects to a large extent the political priorities of the government. At the same time, the 'basic mass' of expenditure has already been prescribed by law. I think that Estonia should not take as an example countries such as the one found in the world, where the role of Parliament is limited to voting for or against the budget. The Riigikogu must also have the opportunity to make changes to the budget, including on small items of expenditure that Parliament considers necessary to support, be it a sports organisation, a non-profit organisation or an investment object. All such cost lines are justified, necessary and gratifying. Of course, there are always those who do not receive as much support as they hope. And there are certainly many who do not receive as much support as they need. So, for my part, the more Riigikogu finds these possibilities, the better it will be to provide additional funding for various organisations, including the organisations of people with disabilities who are undoubtedly doing a commendable job, in the course of the budgetary process.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U59	Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! I would like to comment to the viewers that the Minister has just enlightened the so-called 'roof money' system. The Social Democrats came up with their own electoral platform, and the economic people of the Reform Party were upset, and they claim that the Socialist economic platform is doing us a disservice because the economy is stopping and so on. I ask what is the political internal climate in the government right now. Can the Estonian people eat sauerkraut and blood sausage in peace of heart on Christmas Eve?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U61	Thank you. First of all, thank you for your commendable comments for the benefit of the viewers! I'm sure it's much clearer to watch the transmission now. However, it is probably not a great surprise to the people who follow the policy that the programmed view of the Socialists and Reform Party, such as tax policy, varies considerably in many aspects. This had already been known to us before and did not surprise us, either by negotiating the coalition or by working constructively together in the government. Our visions of how to revitalise the Estonian economy, how to create more jobs in Estonia, how to increase the income of Estonian people and how to improve the livelihood of Estonian families are sure to spread out in the electoral campaign that is about to take place before the voters. The Social Democrats have a comprehensive and, in my opinion, a very good, forward-looking and well-targeted programme. The aim, as I said, is to increase people's incomes and improve their livelihoods, reduce economic emigration, push the Estonian economy into a new momentum and raise it to the next level of global competitiveness. Undoubtedly, our vision differs significantly not only from the Programme of the Reform Party, but I dare say that the IRL and certainly the Centre Party plan, as well as the plans of non-parliamentary parties. But the competition is the truth. As far as the government's working climate is concerned, we will look back at the government's work plan tomorrow. I think we've done it pretty well, maybe not for a grade of 5+, but for a pretty good result anyway. Much of the important points that we discussed in the coalition agreement and agreed on in the spring have been implemented. There are other things still to work, some things before you in Parliament to discuss. So the coalition can do its job well.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U62	Ladies and gentlemen, Life has shown that it takes us 15 minutes to discuss one question in the middle. Because both the questioners and the respondents have been thrifty for that, thank them very much! You can ask further questions within nine minutes. The name of the minister must be mentioned and the question asked and the minister will answer. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U63	Mr President, thank you very much for the opportunity to ask. I will ask the Minister for Finance about the same subject that my fellow Members asked about earlier, which concerns the monetary platform of the Social Democratic Party. We have heard that Aivar Sõerd, former Minister of Finance of the Reform Party, who was then a member of the People's Union, has cursed this reform in the ground and finds that it is slowing Estonia's development. I would like to hear the view of the Reform Party on the monetary platform of the Social Democratic Party from the current Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U64	Thanks for asking. I have to admit, unfortunately, that the Minister of Finance's working day is extremely busy and I have not had the opportunity to get to know this material in depth. I have noticed a few keywords that have raised questions in me, in particular the introduction of corporate tax, the extension and creation of social tax differences, the introduction of graduated income tax, etc. I hope that I will have more time to go into this and I believe that the Social Democrats will also be able to explain their programme more widely.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U65	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U67	Who's the question? What minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U68	Good finance minister, Maris Lauri! In the news this morning, the front of many portals had a drastic fall on the ruble. How does this affect our public finances, and what can we do to make it less affected?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U69	Thanks for asking. At the moment, I cannot say specific figures or describe the exact impact, because the Ministry is still doing an in-depth analysis. I would remind you that the deep fall was just yesterday. However, as an analyst, I can refer to the processes through which we are affected. The impact is certainly positive on the one hand, and negative on the other. The weakening of Rubla is likely to recoup the spending of Russian tourists in Estonia, for example, and may therefore cause certain problems for tourism companies, tourist accommodation companies. At the same time, we can hope that at least part of the purchases have already been made and the guests will still arrive here. The wider impact is likely to be more modest, because Estonian companies no longer trade so much with Russia, especially after sanctions. I also recall that Estonian companies have exported mostly transit goods from here to Russia, moving east from the west to the east. So there are relatively few Estonian companies affected. But certainly the weakening of the ruble causes them certain problems. At the same time, as stated in the press, those people who travel from Estonia to Russia can make cheap purchases from there. Yes, we know that the political situation in Russia is risky, but so far things are more or less in order.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U70	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U71	Thank you, manager. I will ask the Minister for Agriculture. As Minister of Agriculture, you have approached the Minister of the Interior to consider facilitating the introduction of migrant labour. What agricultural sector needs migrant labour today?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U72	Thank you. All this correspondence and requests for views from different ministers are driven by a letter from the Estonian Heritage Association. Representatives of the gardening sector, in particular the Gardening Association, have been the main interested party who has approached the Ministry of Agriculture and asked what opportunities are. On the basis of this letter, we, in turn, have asked other ministries how they see it, whether it would be justified or not to make a distinction in a particular economic area.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U73	Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U74	Good Minister of Finance! You mentioned earlier that VAT receipts are even slightly better than forecast. We have raised excise duties on alcohol and tobacco year after year. What are the current receipts in this sector compared to last year, and what is the forecast?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U75	Thanks for asking. The receipts are satisfactory. More details are available on the Ministry of Finance website, but if you want, I'll send them to your e-mail.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U76	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U77	Thank you. My question to the Minister for Defence is the Prime Minister's role. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. The Eastern virumaans are quite concerned about what will happen to the oil shale chemical industry in the future. I believe you are aware of what is happening to the Viru Chemistry Group and Estonian Energia companies. How do you comment on this situation, and how do you see the development of the electricity and chemical industries in the near future?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U78	Thank you. The remaining one and a half minutes will certainly not be enough to answer this question exhaustively. But there are various concerns, problems in the oil shale and oil shale chemical sectors. For example, how the resource is divided between companies using oil shale as raw materials, be it the Estonian Energia owned by the state or the Viru Chemistry Group. I am sure you know that, in these days, there are also debates going on in Brussels, in the European Parliament, which also have a direct impact on the future of the oil shale sector. The aim of the current government is to solve problems in the energy sector in a way that takes account of the socio-economic interests of the region of Ida-Virumaa, as well as in a way that ensures the security of energy supply in Estonia, as well as in a way that has a minimal negative impact on Estonia's environmental status. So there are many aspects, but the complex problem the government is dealing with is complex.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U79	Question Time is over. Thank you to the ministers.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U80	Honourable Riigikogu! There is now an opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries who have a wish. Lauri Laasi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U81	Mr President! Honourable Riigikogu! I will present an inquiry to Mr Urve Palo, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. By 1 December of each year, Elering shall prepare and publish on its website an estimate of the amount of renewable energy support for the following calendar year, the volume of network services provided to consumers and the amount of electricity consumed through producer lines. On this basis, the renewable energy charge will be set for next year. Elering has announced that next year the renewable energy fee will increase to EUR 0.89 cent. This year's fee is 0.77 euro cents, which is 15.6%. In addition, the consumer's electricity bill reflects the network service fee of 5.4 euro cents, the electricity excise duty of 0.44 euro cents and VAT. Thus, next year the renewable energy charge will be 6.2%, the electricity excise 3.1%, the network service fee 37.7%, the VAT 16.7% and the electricity charge itself 36.3% of the total electricity bill. Compared to 2010 electricity bill, electricity prices have increased by 158%, network charges by 141%, renewable energy charges by 229% and electricity excise duties by 140%. We believe that electricity is not a luxury item in our climate zones, and in this connection we have three questions for Urve Palo.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U82	I have accepted an inquiry. If it complies with the Home and Working Procedures Act, it shall be forwarded to the Minister. Please, let's do the presence check! 83 members of the Riigikogu are present, 18 are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U83	Our work yesterday ended in a situation where the first reading of Bill 742 came to the conclusion that the rapporteur from the initiators of the draft had made a presentation, but the members of the Riigikogu could not ask him questions. I therefore ask Mikhail Stalnukhin to come back to the speaker's desk and the MPs can ask. Vladimir Velman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U84	Thank you very much, Mr President. Since there were hardly any people in this Chamber at the end of yesterday's working day and the honourable rapporteur did not have the substance of the draft to explain to anyone, may I ask you, honourable speaker, to refer once again what the content of this draft is and what is behind it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U85	Thank you for your question, that is very relevant. It's really nice to see so many people in the hall, and I'm happy to explain it to them. The faction of the Estonian Centre Party has introduced a draft amendment to the Act, the content of which is as follows. § 6 of the Citizenship Act lays down the conditions for obtaining Estonian citizenship. There are many and different types of residence, such as at least 15 years old, long-term residence permit or permanent residence permit, etc. These include section 3: must be able to speak Estonian in accordance with the requirements of § 8 of this Act. And point 4: must know the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and the Citizenship Act in accordance with the requirements of § 9 of this Act. Our proposal, behind which the tradition is, I would say, over 75 years long, is that we offer to include Section 6 (2) in the law, which reads: 'A foreigner who has been born in Estonia before 20.08.1991 or has moved to Estonia is exempt from the requirements of subsection 1 (3) and (4) of this section. ' I would not say that such a proposal contains something new, and in order to prove it, we will turn to the Citizenship Act of the Republic of Estonia. I'm going to show you how some of the provisions sounded in that law in 1938. Thus, in the Citizenship Act of 1938, Section 2 "Baseds and Order of Nationalization', in which a section, § 6, stipulated that an alien who wishes to enter Estonian citizenship under the naturalization procedure must meet the following conditions. Three conditions are listed: age, length of residence in Estonia and thirdly, you must know the Estonian language. Next, Section 7 states that the requirements of subsection 6 (2) and (3) concerning two years of living in Estonia and knowledge of the Estonian language may be omitted for certain persons. There are three categories of persons in the letter: of course, persons of Estonian origin; those who have special services in front of the Republic of Estonia and thirdly, stateless persons who have resided permanently in Estonia until the date of application for admission to Estonian citizenship. I mean, the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party is nothing new. This principle existed before the war in 1938. And that doesn't mean it hasn't been followed up. For example, in the late 1980s, in the early 1990s, hopefully you will remember this, the Estonian Congress used such things as the blue card and the green card. 20500 people received the citizenship of the Republic of Estonia on the basis of a green card. Later, the Estonian Congress and its successors, the Pro Patria Union, emerged and we have the former members of this former party, which no longer exists, now in this Chamber, and this principle should be close to them. Why the Estonian Congress was based on principles that were honest in 1938 but in the 1990s, the change in citizenship policy changed sharply, of course, can be justified. It was understood that privatisation would begin, privatisation would begin and the desire to leave a very large part of the population outside this process was, of course, a very convincing reason to change the citizenship law so that its principles would not be met by those in force in 1938. Somewhere in the late 1990s, according to my memory in 1999, the privatisation agency ceased its work, but by then there were other reasons to make it difficult for non-Estonians living in Estonia to acquire the citizenship of the Republic of Estonia. I would like to remind you, for example, of the 2003 Riigikogu elections. The then Isamaa party received 7% of the votes and even less moderate, 6%. Since the respective calculations were made by scientists, many at the time knew that if the naturalisation citizens had been 30,000 more than they had been then, one party of these two would certainly not have gotten into the Riigikogu. And if there had been more of these citizens by 60,000, neither party would most likely have gotten into Parliament. Imagine what our political landscape would have been like by now! But that doesn't mean that the great idea of giving citizenship a simplified procedure is forgotten. The first party to come back to this idea was Res Publica, which does not exist at the moment, but its former members are entirely present in this Chamber. Res Publica issued a newspaper Take the Power in Russian I'm not going to call it in just and make very intelligent decisions. For example, in October 2002 (No 3), half a page was dedicated to Juhan Parts: a beautiful picture, a finger up and a slogan 'Support a new policy! '. What was this new policy about? Here is the position of Res Publica on the issue of citizenship. It is clearly stated that it is necessary to change the scheme: this scheme, that first the language, then the mind and then the citizenship, is wrong. The scheme must look like this: first citizenship, then mind and language. I agree with that. This was accepted by our ancestors in the 1930's, why should we resist? And there are also specific proposals in this paper. By the way, three people have signed this part of the page, two of whom I would certainly like to mention: one is Rein Taagepera and the other is Urmas Reinsalu. It has been formulated here that persons who have resided permanently on the territory of Estonia before August 1991, who have a residence permit and who have not been punished in criminal proceedings, should become Estonian citizens when they apply for it. Of course, they must be loyal. Civic courses have also been mentioned here, and nothing can be said about them. We now have this situation that the Estonian Central Party has come up with the idea of giving citizenship to a simplified procedure and one of the political parties IRL, which consists of the former Fatherland Association and Res Publica, who have both used this idea in practice, giving 20500 people a simplified citizenship procedure, has offered it in their programming documents and discussed it in their councils and management. The question arises as to whether the score is two: 2. In fact, the situation is not 2:2 because we still have social democrats in the hall. The Social Democrats know very well that their top politicians, such as Urve Palo, have also supported this idea. In order not to be mistaken, I'm going to read you a quote. 'I support the call for a point,' says Urve Palo, on 20 February of this year, 'which requires that non-citizens born in Estonia be granted Estonian citizenship by a simplified procedure. In fact, the state could introduce such a regime for all "grey passport" holders who have lived in Estonia before 26 February 1992, as well as for their children. Of course, they themselves must express their wish to become an Estonian citizen. ' So, ladies and gentlemen, I'm just stating the fact. This is a draft whose initiators rely on the position of both the former components of the IRL and the current Social Democratic Party. You have said so and it would be interesting to know why you do not want to support it now. But it is up to us to bring this idea to this hall and to propose that we support this very good legislative amendment. Yes, the difference is that Res Publica and the Fatherland Alliance talked about August 1991, but SDE somehow offers February 1992, but I think we can solve this problem between two readings. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U86	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U87	Thank you. I will continue with my question on the last issue relating to the Fatherland and Res Publica Union and the Socialists, because, indeed, in our previous drafts, we were in favour. Before this debate was in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, have you spoken to the representatives of the political groups? One thing is the debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the other is your references.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U88	Thank you, very good question! I'm afraid my answer may be unpleasant for many in this hall. Maybe I've been here too long, and I've had a break in this job. I compare the previous and present times and, as far as I can see, currently there are mostly group management discussions. When they coordinate their views on a draft law, there is hardly any input from the line members. Things have just changed, now is a very different time. Sometime in the old days, I may have talked about this, but probably not in this hall, if something had to be done in the interests of the local government, I talked about the reform with Andres Taimla, who was then the chairman of the council. We found a common language on a number of issues, and he later spoke it to others. I talked to the patriots and moderates. The point is, then, we were united by the fact that we were in local governments, and now we are united by nothing. At present, we have no such involvement or interest in helping another member of the Riigikogu, thereby helping ourselves. We do have coffee break-level conversations, of course, but usually we don't solve any problems together. So I have to say with sadness that I haven't had any conversations in the factions. At the same time, I think that the argument that I have now brought should be enough. I have put forward all the positions that have been supported and are probably still supported by the IRL and SDE. This platform is still in place. Men don't eat their words, let's do it!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U89	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U90	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, The changes to the Citizenship Act are, of course, closely addressed in an area where there are many people who do not have Estonian citizenship. I believe these areas are Ida-Virumaa, Tallinn and all of Harjumaa. I do not know, of course, what political flows are in Tallinn and Harjumaa, but I do know exactly what is happening in Ida-Viru County. And I'm amazed at one thing. Colleagues from the Group of the Social Democratic Party are working pretty hard on people living in the region of Ida-Virumaa, I do not understand why they are opposed to the adoption of this draft. How do you comment on that from your position?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U91	That is a very good question, dear colleague. The fact that the Commission voted against may have been simply an accident at work. Actually, I don't think they've really considered this question. At the moment, it would be strange if we started talking about them in a critical way, we hope to receive their support. But the fact remains a fact. Some time ago, we said here that what has happened is that a year ago they did not support a tax reduction, but now, less than a year later, they are already supporting it. Everything happens. But I think there is another more important thing right now. I was ready for that first reading yesterday, but today, just in case, I was looking at some more material on this issue and I found out one of the results of the monitoring. By the way, it's official. It's off the Ministry page. The result of this monitoring tells us that more than half of Estonians are in favour of giving citizenship to non-Estonians born in Estonia on a simplified basis. In view of this study, the people do not think there should be such a sharing that we have Tallinn, Ida-Virumaa and the rest of Estonia. So everything should be all right. But let's live and see what and how. Some do not like to remember old times; for some it is a delightful activity. I am among the latter, and I am very interested in watching the Social Democratic Party vote today: either to support or to oppose this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U92	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! You spoke so convincingly that the draft you presented was based on the principles of the IRL of 1991 and the principles of 1992. Do you think that they support these principles of those who are in this hall and at that time they did or do not support them? If they're doing it one way or the other, why are they acting like this? Have you thought about that? This is actually a very important question for our Estonian state and especially for the region from which we have been elected.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U94	Thank you, Lembit! I must state, in the interests of the verbatim report, that there was no IRL in 1991; it was created in 2006. The patriotic alliance came into existence in 1995. These are the descendants of the Estonian Congress. As far as these fundamental views are concerned, everything happens in life. For example, on January 17, 2004, the Estonian Päevaleht wrote: "On Saturday, the council of the Estonian National League took the view that the foundations of the regime guaranteeing civil freedom have been put under a severe blow under Res Publica's leadership. ' And the council will also justify this argument, and very constructively, but it believes that democracy is in danger and is threatened by Res Publica. But two years later they joined, and that means that although two years before that there was one principled position, in two years things changed exactly enough to find common points, and on the basis of them there was a merger. And now when people ask me how the IRL was formed, what these two had in common, I can't talk about much else, such as the economy and social policy, but the Patriotic Union's position on the issue of simplified citizenship was the same as Res Publical. So in politics, there are no principles at all, there is a compulsion that our lives prescribe here. There are a lot of words behind which there is a big, big lie, but sometimes, thank God, we have been given the opportunity to be really fundamental. I hope the Sos do it. I want to believe they're showing their best side. But if I recall what Allik, Ossinovski and a few other people talked about in 2010 in Kohtla-Järve, when we arranged a round table with representatives of the Russian gymnasium there, and if I put it together with what the current Minister of Education and Science is doing, these things don't add up. There are certain changes, but it is always possible to be principled and to demonstrate to the people that you trust him. If monitoring shows that most Estonians support a simplified procedure for granting citizenship, please be in favour of the majority of the people, not as in the case of the cohabitation law, if you were in favour of the minority.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U95	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U96	Thank you, manager. Good colleague! Maybe you're hurting your colleagues from the IRL and the soccer party, because the vote has not yet taken place. What makes you think they're voting against? A member of the Riigikogu is free in his decisions, and I do not think today they will vote against.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U97	Thank you, Tarmo! I am very sorry that you have the impression that I think I know in advance how they vote. No way! I'm already here like some old-fashioned man, but I like to remember how it used to be. In the old days, when such a dilemma arose, where political interests and conscience faced each other, a break was made, and time was cut off. At the corner of the hall or at the door, the question was discussed. Very often, the debate was interrupted, returned to this issue. What's being discussed all the time? That there is a mind and a language or a language and a mind and where to stick citizenship. But in fact, everyone is just the victims of this beautiful slogan. It has never really been discussed in practice. I'm sorry again if it seemed like I was going in to IRL and SDE. But I really think they should remember their old principles and support this bill. If anyone is offended by what I say, I am truly sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U98	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U99	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Waitress! Here's the question. If you look at the statistics, in 2013 1453 people wanted citizenship of the Republic of Estonia. Of these, just over 1,000 were people of undefined nationality, 491 of whom were under 15 years old. Thus, in essence, only about 500 people over the age of 15 wanted Estonian citizenship. I recall that there are over 90,000 non-citizens in Estonia. This means that if this trend persists, it will take about 200 years before this category disappears in Estonia. How do you feel about people with undefined citizenship not very likely to apply for Estonian citizenship?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U100	At first, a little bit of that 200 years. The average life expectancy in Estonia is 71 years for men and 81 years for women, at least according to statistics. So 200 years will definitely not be needed. Secondly, I am very interested in how many people will apply for Estonian citizenship if this law is passed. I think one of the reasons why many of our colleagues do not support us in this Chamber is the knowledge that this could be one very embarrassing scandal that could turn out to be very few. At the moment, a situation has arisen where those people who wanted to define their nationality had the opportunity to take the citizenship of the Russian Federation, Ukraine, Belarus or any other republic of the Soviet Union and for them the process has ended. There are about 90,000 grey passports left, and speaking to them frankly, I do not feel that they have a great desire for citizenship. They are already like outcasts in political terms and many in social terms, in the labour market, and just accustomed to it. During the year-and-a-half, the Estonian Congress formalised over 20,000 people as Estonian citizens. If this law goes through, it will be very interesting how much more citizens will come because of it. I don't think it's a five-digit number at all. Life has put these things in place, people are used to the situation. This does not mean, however, that we should not try to increase the number of Estonian citizens, which is in the interests of our internal and external policies. At the same time, I do not think that there are many of those who want to own a grey passport. I don't know if I answered the question. If you didn't understand anything, ask for more.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U101	Vladimir Velman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U102	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, I am deeply sorry that the representatives of the Socialists do not take part in the debate in this Chamber, women, do not look at me, I am about to apologise to you. representatives of the IRL or of the IRL. Only women sit in the hall as their representatives. And I'm sorry, Mr. Aaviksoo, you're the only man in the party! But that's the kind of thing I wanted to ask. Do you not think that those political parties that have taken their list of non-Estonians, such as Ladynskaja and Rogalski Isamaa and Res Publica Union, Kiitam and Poverina, are not currently hitting those ambassador candidates when they vote against this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U103	Thank you. This answer requires a long philosophical debate, but to put it briefly, I think they don't care what happens to these candidates. They just spit on whether they get votes or they don't get votes. If they bring something, there's something extra to the party cashier, if you don't, you don't, and that's it. And what can be said about being hit when a non-Estonian joins the IRL? Then he has a very firm outlook on the world, and for him these ethical problems are simply not. I don't see any problem here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U104	Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U105	Thank you. Dear waitress, You have a very long experience here in the Riigikogu and you spoke before about how political parties have behaved before. Can you tell me how many people would be in the hall today who used to talk about it, that's how the law should be changed? It would suggest how many supporters there are.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U106	I don't know what to say. I had breaks in my parliamentary work, and so many things have happened and are happening now. By the way, the fact that we apologize all the time, once I, once Velman, who turned to the ladies, is a new experience for us. Today we discussed this code of ethics or morality in the Riigikogu. What's the name of this thing? The Ten Commandments, yes, the Ten Commandments of the Riigikogu. We're definitely smarter than the Old Testament. Not only does the Riigikogu change, but all the people who are here will also change. So your question, I'm sorry, I'm not gonna risk answering.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U107	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U108	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Thank you, I almost got an answer to my previous question. My next question is about the status of a gray passport holder. What function does this passport now have in society? If people do not have an interest in citizenship, if they do not want citizenship, then there are certainly reasons for it. Very many of them are decent taxpayers. Why does society not want to increase its membership by 100,000? Are they a threat to the state or what? Why do you think this category is even needed?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U109	Colleagues, you keep pushing me into a corner, and that's what your own men do. There is no way to answer that! It's just not possible, because there's something going on every day that we can't explain. A former Member of the European Parliament, Giulietto Chiesa, a perfectly law-abiding and decent person, comes to Estonia and is taken into custody and deported. This means that this is a country where not a weapon is feared, not a military threat, but an old man is feared, a man over 70 years old, who simply came here to talk. And he's so scared he's gonna be arrested. How can this be explained? What kind of society is this, where people are already afraid of loved ones, where they are afraid to express their political views, where most of the major media have only one point of view. What do you do with it? There's no way to explain that right now. But as far as the grey passports are concerned, I repeat: they actually have one very big plus. Their owners have free access both to the countries of the European Union and to the Russian Federation. Probably keeping a lot of people on that gray passport. I also know people who speak Estonian but do not want to take Estonian citizenship. Sad, of course. I think that if we adopt this law, our citizens will not increase by 100,000 people, at best by 10,000. We'll see. You have to try to find out what's coming out. You can't throw the bill in the corner.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U110	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U111	Dear waitress, Tell me, please, do you want to address this issue in a positive way in the draft, or is the aim of this action today solely for the benefit of the Socialists and also for the pre-election work of the IRL or the mockery of it? You know very well that there is a point in the current coalition agreement that the foundations of citizenship policy will not be changed within this coalition. And the Social Democrats have signed it. Does it not seem to you that raising this problem now is actually a waste of Parliament's time?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U112	Jaak, I don't understand you! You're an experienced man, you've survived three political parties, and now you're in fourth. You should know what democracy really is. Democracy, in my opinion, requires that I defend my principles and I do not make an agreement that is contrary to my principles. If you made such a coalition agreement, didn't you have any other options? You were. You had those opportunities and don't tell me you didn't! Once again, the truth is taken as a mockery. Jaak, if you ask any more questions or come to this remote control, please tell me what I've been lying about! Is there something wrong with the fact that the Congress of Estonia gave citizenship to 20,000 people who do not speak Estonian? Was there something wrong with what was published in Res Publica's Vozmi Vlast and where this simplified version was offered? Or do you mean the speech where your very High Representative announced the need for decisive steps to be taken and to move to a simplified procedure? If you think I'm trying to mock you, it's not like that! I'm trying to raise your conscience, and that's what I've been doing here for the fourth year, but it's not gonna wake up in any way. Either he's under anesthesia or I don't understand what's happened. What are you doing? What are you really doing? Today we have items 11 and 12 on the agenda to amend the law on restrictions on the acquisition of immovable property. You didn't pass our bill that gave greater rights to people living in Narva. You've come up with an idea that doesn't work at all. And today you're going to drown our bill and let your bill pass the first reading. I proposed in the Commission a compromise that we should do the first two readings and unite the draft so that both principles can be incorporated. Who's taunting who! So, Jaak, I'm not taking the blame. I never want to mock anyone in the remote. I only hope in the case of politicians it is, of course, strange to say that it wakes up their conscience, or at least their memory.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U113	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U114	Dear waitress, I never once blamed you for lying on my question, so this filipica was completely useless. But I think I also received the answer: you have taken up this subject today to raise your conscience.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U115	In fact, my answer contained a big question. We're talking about a 76-year tradition in our country. I remind you once again of the Citizenship Act of the Republic of Estonia of 1938. You are all saying that you are Estonian patriots. What makes you think this is a worse time than it was in 1938? It's very hard to imagine a worse time than it was in 1938. There was already a war in Europe, actually all over the world. The situation was very tense. And it was at that time that a law was passed that clearly stated that requirements regarding the knowledge of the Estonian language could be omitted in the case of stateless persons who have resided permanently in Estonia until the date on which the application for entry into Estonian citizenship was submitted. Why could they do that? Our predecessors thought it was possible, they decided it in this very building, in these very rooms, but you're afraid? How many of you have statesmanship? Or are you just thinking about how many voters will be created if you support it, who will not vote for you? How long will our country, our statehood, suffer such non-essential behavior that you do everything only to your own? I stand for the eternal values of our country. I think the first republic deserves us to use his experience. They say there was a silent era at the time. But why is this age less silent? At that time, I thought it was more honest than it is now. Let's live!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U116	No further questions. The Commission's rapporteur is Andres Herkel. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U117	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Commission discussed the law amending the Citizenship Act on 8 December and the Protocol confirms that this debate began at 12.33 p.m. and ended at 12.45 p.m. So the debate was much shorter than what has been happening here for two days. Mr Stalnukhin, who presented the draft law, also spoke at a shorter time. He recalled that the Congress of Estonia offered for a limited period of time an opportunity to gain Estonian citizenship for a declaration of loyalty, Mr Reinsalus, as a supporter of the null variant and no mention of social democrats. This reference to the Estonian Congress was also the only one that attracted the attention of the speaker. I asked Mr Stalnukhin whether the historical context was similar, whether it was comparable. The remaining arguments against this draft were put forward by Siiri Leskov, representative of the Government of the Republic, adviser to the Citizenship and Migration Policy Department of the Ministry of the Interior. In the longer term, all of this is included in the negative position of the Government of the Republic on this bill. It was noted that Estonian citizenship is a close link between the state and the person. In order to be granted citizenship, a person must demonstrate the desire to integrate into Estonian society and have the necessary level of knowledge of the Estonian language for everyday life, which is why the examination of both language and constitutional knowledge is necessary. It also referred to the Preamble of the Constitution, which states that the preservation of Estonian nation and culture must be ensured through the ages. True, as a marginal remark, I can say here that the principles of the Citizenship Act are older than the preamble of the Constitution, but this has been the case from time to time. Since citizenship is accompanied by political rights, an examination of both the Citizenship Act and the knowledge of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia is necessary. A good government official also said that he has tried to pass the exam himself and that it is very easy, a dictionary can be used, etc. That was more or less the discussion. Yes, Mr Stalnukhin also spoke at the hearing about how language and culture can be preserved through the ages, given that citizenship is also given for special services. The answer was that a maximum of 10 persons a year would be granted citizenship for special services. This regulation, which would make it possible to withdraw the examination of both language and constitutional knowledge, affects a much wider range of people. The Commission took its procedural decisions: to put this draft on today's plenary agenda and to appoint a rapporteur. These decisions were taken by consensus. It was also proposed to reject the draft law at first reading. There were 7 members in favour and 2 members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U118	Questions for the waitress. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U119	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I didn't want to ask the previous speaker, so I thought I'd better ask you about the discussion in the committee. Did it sound like there was a war in Europe in 1938? Did it sound like the situation here in 1938 was about the same as it is now, or did the Commission also mention that the Republic of Estonia was occupied in 1940 and then re-ocupied in 1944, which has changed the composition of our population since 1938? Was there any other such question, perhaps not very important, but what you have, I can imagine, is quite close to the heart? I don't know if it's the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U120	Thank you, Mr. Randpere. If these problems had been raised in the way that Mr Stalnukhin did just then, there would probably have been objections in the Commission. But it wasn't done. As I said, from the wide-ranging ampoua, which Mr Stalnukhin presented here in front of the Riigikogu yesterday, he referred only to the Congress of Estonia, not to the war in 1938 in Europe and everything else that was mentioned today. But it's not my job to op it here. I assume that the ambassadors will come to speak later.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U121	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U122	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! How do you assess the bill discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs? Is it fundamentally unacceptable, or could it be called into question in a modified or refined form?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U123	Honourable questioner! It is not up to me to make assessments here, in which way the draft could be acceptable. I would like to point out that another amendment to the Citizenship Act is also under discussion here, which the members of the Government Union obviously had agreed and some of the opposition were opposed. It's a bit of a matter of other questions. Some of the historical parallels that Mr. Stalnukhin brought here, I recognized. I've been poning them myself. This concerns, for example, the null variant of citizenship. However, in part, these parallels, as I pointed out in the Commission, are not quite appropriate. I am thinking about the time of the Estonian Congress and the historical context at that time. But how could a bill with the same content ever be considered by the future powers of the Riigikogu, which I cannot predict or comment on.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U124	Thank you, Andres Herkel! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the faction of the Mikhail Stalnukhin Central Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U125	Ladies and gentlemen, A few remarks to what has been said in this debate. For 12 minutes, this issue was discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for the simple reason that a meeting of the Commission would be held with a clear knowledge of how to vote. If you're gonna deny it, you're either cheating on the public or you're cheating on yourself. It is only worth talking and discussing here in this Chamber and seeing what comes out. That's point one. Point two. I would like to remind you once again: we are essentially offering exactly what was inside the Citizenship Act in 1938. This is a principle that was also used by the Estonian Congress in the early 1990s. This is the principle that Res Publica published in 2002 in the decision of its council and board, and this is the principle that the Social Democratic Party will also discuss this year. I think today's discussion circle is the basis for possible negotiations, I would say, a consensus search. Of course, I must ask you to support the completion of the first reading, even so that it can be discussed thoroughly both in the political groups and in the committees. Now that we have had independence for over twenty years, it is difficult to overestimate the negative effects of this law. Something negative has already happened and something needs to be done quickly and transparently with this army of non-citizens. Please support the completion of the first reading! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U126	There are no more requests to participate in the negotiations. The commission has proposed to reject draft 742 at first reading. That is what we need to vote on. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft proposal of the commission to reject 742 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There were 66 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the commission's proposal, 16 against, no abstentions. Bill 742 has been rejected at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U127	Our next item is the third reading of Bill 676 of the Rescue Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and amendments to other laws. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote on the draft Act on Salvation initiated by the Government of the Republic and on the amendment of other laws 676. Please take a stand and vote. There are 75 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft, and no one is against or impartial. The Law on Salvation and the Law on the Amendment of Other Laws has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U128	Our next item is the third reading of the draft law amending the law on law enforcement initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U129	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The opposition parties' head is the only means of protecting society from unreasonable political decisions is to prevent the adoption of certain drafts in certain cases. In such cases, those in power accuse the opposition of wasting taxpayers' money. But let us see how much it has cost taxpayers to make the stupid political decisions of those in power sound. On 1 July, the new Law Enforcement Act entered into force. At that time, there were almost no people who would say, "How good! I love that drinking is allowed in public now! " On the contrary, more and more people realized that it was a very wrong decision, both in the media and in communicating with people. Here is one thing I would like to clarify. The Centre Party has never been in favour of allowing drinking in public. The Centre Party has several times wished to amend the advertising law in order to reduce the promotion of drinking. We have proposed banning alcoholic beverages at petrol stations. Thus, it is not true that all the political groups agreed to allow alcohol consumption in public places. However, I come back to the draft text. After criticizing cities that were not allowed to drink publicly, the state decided to take the first step. They ordered a study to figure out what people were thinking. The results were unambiguously clear. The negative attitude of people to drinking in public was already known from previous years' studies, but these data were not wanted to be used. However, this data was used by the Centre Party, which handed over a draft on the first day of the meeting this autumn, which was once again intended to prohibit the use of alcohol in public places. We used the wording of the old law, which was laconical, simple and, most importantly, everyone knew how it worked. But the Government of the Republic decided to come up with its draft, which we are discussing here today, stressing that the Centre Party's does not fit, and the Government of the Republic is better. But I'll come back to the cost of correcting mistakes. Research centres, staff of health organisations, staff of at least two ministries, officials of different cities who prepared their letters and proposals, worked hard on this draft, here in the Riigikogu 101 members of the population and in addition to these many other officials here in three sessions. How much does that make? How much of the taxpayer's money was spent on this? Unfortunately, I don't know the exact amount when I'm on the remote, but the Government of the Republic should know that. The next time the Government of the Republic comes up with such a legislative amendment, it might be helpful to think carefully about whether it is worth practicing a road roll policy on people and spending their money unreasonablely. The Centre Party supports this bill, but we do not like its wording. There is no impact analysis, and we do not know what this could entail in conjunction with other laws. But the Centre Party is still in favour of banning drinking in public places.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U130	Neeme on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U131	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Today, a certain saga that started quite a while ago will end, and this saga will be called 'In the public place, alcohol consumption'. When this bill started quite several years ago, the aim was to make law enforcement a more human-centred, human-closer and more appropriate to the existing situation. We can't imagine exactly what the law of order should be followed, point by point, for example, when it comes to a happy gathering at the Christmas tree on New Year's Eve or in some similar situation. In that case, if we start following the law very closely, we could get to absurdity. Unfortunately, we saw that this more human-centred approach and the approach that takes into account people's natural behaviour gave us a pretty upside-down result. As soon as the Law on Law Enforcement had entered into force, large amounts of alcohol began to be consumed in public places. Was it a mistake? Probably not. Perhaps it was a premature expectation that society could control itself, that people could understand whether they were disturbing or not by their behaviour in public spaces. Sadly, many are accustomed to the rule of law. And here's the reversal to a situation where alcohol consumption in public is forbidden. A small difference is that local authorities can identify places where this may be allowed. If we come back to the Centre Party bill, we cannot talk about any political contradiction. Just to remind you that the Centre Party's draft gave the municipality an unlimited right either to ban or to allow alcohol consumption in public places, but our law enforcement representatives, such as the Police and Border Guard Board and other specialists, said that there should be a common approach to this issue in Estonia. This same approach was ensured with the draft initiated by the government. It states that alcohol consumption is forbidden in public places, and the local authorities were given clear rules on how to behave. However, it must be acknowledged that civil society was still put on hold. Maybe we'll come back to this in five, ten or 15 years. I am convinced that a situation where people understand their behaviour and try not to disturb the public without the law comes to light once in Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U132	Marko Pomerants, on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, please! I'll give you more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U133	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I'm going to have a few words in this debate. It has been said here that no restrictions and prohibitions can go on in Estonia, but you can see that there are situations where people have not been able to exercise their freedoms. The result is today's bill. But to anyone who now optimistically hopes that everything will change and that alcohol consumption will disappear in public space, I say that I will not go along with this optimism. I would point out that according to this draft § 55 (3) of the Act, the local government unit may determine public places where alcohol consumption is permitted by general arrangements. However, a local government unit may not allow alcohol to be consumed at a place where it is considered to be disturbing in accordance with subsection 1 (5) of this section. These are hobbies, vocational schools, primary schools, etc. The places designated by the general arrangement of the local government unit where the consumption of alcohol is permitted must be clearly and clearly marked. The work done in the city of Tallinn with these drinking glasses has come to the fore. These marks may be left up, in these same places you may be allowed to drink in public, then it is the vicinity of Toompea or Kadriorg Park. Power and determination! I don't think anyone here is going to vote against this bill right now, but don't be too optimistic about it. Thanks!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U134	There is no further wish for negotiation. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft 752. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the law on law enforcement initiated by the Government of the Republic 752. Please take a stand and vote. 69 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of adopting Bill 752, against 1 and with 7 abstentions. The law amending the Law Enforcement Act has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U135	Our next item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Citizenship Act and the State Fees Act 737 initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Indrek Saar, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U136	Ladies and gentlemen, The Government of the Republic initiated a draft of 737 this year on 6 October. The first reading took place on 12 November. The deadline for submitting amendments was 26 November and only the Central Party Group submitted the amendments within the deadline. There were three of them. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed the preparation of the second reading at its meeting on 8 December. The Minister of the Interior and another official of the Ministry of the Interior also took part in the meeting. The Commission discussed and voted on the three amendments tabled by the Centre Party Group. Following the introduction of the full text of the new State Fees Act, the Commission also decided to propose two amendments itself. A little of the content of the amendments. The first amendment of the Centre Party was to supplement the draft with a new clause 9 which states that the examination of the Constitution and Citizenship Act should not be carried out by a person who has completed primary or secondary education according to the Estonian national curriculum. The Commission considered that at present the provision of social education in comprehensive school was not organised in such a way that the acquisition of these knowledge would be controlled, as is the case with a language examination with clear categories. The Commission therefore did not support this amendment. Amendment 2 was also tabled by the Central Party Group. It proposed to amend the provisions of § 1 (16) of the draft law so that § 13 (4) of the Citizenship Act is worded as follows: 'A minor under 15 years of age, born in Estonia or moving permanently to Estonia immediately after birth with his or her parent or parents, shall receive Estonian citizenship by naturalisation from the moment of birth if one of his or her parents or parents raising a child alone, who is not considered by any state to be a citizen under the laws in force, has been legally resident in Estonia for at least 5 years at the time of birth. " Both parents are mentioned in the existing text. The first half of this amendment would, according to the Centre Party's explanation, ensure that a situation where a child is deprived of his or her citizenship is excluded because he or she has only one parent officially known. This proposal was considered in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The other half of this proposal, which would allow naturalisation to be granted Estonian citizenship to children who are raised alone by a person who is not considered by any state to be a citizen under the laws in force, was not supported in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. This was not supported by the initiator's representative in the form of the Minister of the Interior. The principle is that the purpose of giving Estonian citizenship to a child born in Estonia of parents of undefined nationality is to ensure that the child is able to acquire citizenship according to the country of residence, because no other country considers him or her to be its own citizen. However, in such a situation, only a child who does not acquire the citizenship of any country with the birth of a parent, i.e. a ius sanguini according to the principle. However, the first part of this amendment was supported by the Commission and was the subject of Amendment 3, which was reworded by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. It found support. Amendment 4 is tabled by the Centre Party Group. Its content is that a person of 65 years of age applying for Estonian citizenship can take an oral examination in Russian when applying for citizenship. The Commission did not support this proposal because the prerequisite for obtaining Estonian citizenship is that a person must speak the Estonian language at the required level for everyday life. Amendments 5 and 6 are technical in nature and result from the adoption on 10 December of the full text of the State Fees Act, which will already be in force on 1 January. Consequently, the amendments that were included in the original draft are no longer necessary. The decision of the Constitutional Committee was to put the draft on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu for a second reading today and to propose that the second reading be stopped.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U137	Questions for the waitress. Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U138	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I have a question concerning our first proposal. Can you tell us the difference between citizenship knowledge given in terms of volume and requirements in the context of social studies in schools and courses that people who want to apply for Estonian citizenship must go through?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U139	I don't know how to comment on that, but I don't know the subject in detail. I can say that, at its meeting, the Commission certainly supported the explanations of former Minister of Education Jaak Aaviksoo. He confirmed that at the moment the provision of social education in comprehensive school was not organised in such a way that the acquisition of its contents would also be controlled. For the Estonian language examination, the standard that must be achieved by the end of primary school, i.e. B1 or B2, is not fixed in terms of knowledge of the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U140	Jaak Aaviksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U141	Thank you. That's the question. This bill amends one important principle of family-based citizenship. It is replaced by the principle of citizenship at birth, albeit for a limited population group, but still. At the same time, it does not make sense why you call it naturalisation in this case. Naturalisation, however, is a procedure that requires will and certain censorships, but if a human birth fact in itself gives him citizenship, as foreseen in this bill, I do not think there is any naturalisation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U142	Thank you for bringing this debate to this Chamber from the walls of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. That is the kind of debate we had in the Commission. The same question you asked was answered by the Minister of the Interior there, and it sounded as if under the current rules, citizenship for children under naturalisation does not require any procedure. The only procedure is that parents apply if they want to. At the moment, they either make a statement or do not make a statement, and the result is different. Calling the application or not being presented as a naturalisation process and saying that there is now going to be a very big change in the principle of citizenship, it sounds a little spooky. But when we talk about this particular point, nothing changes in the procedure. The procedure remains exactly the same. The question is what will happen as a result of this procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U143	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U144	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! The second question concerns our fourth proposal relating to elderly people aged 65+. Our proposal was related to the fact that if the Estonian language exam is oral, as we offer in the draft, the citizenship and legal fields require quite good language skills and we found that this test could be done in Russian. However, it is this knowledge that is the basic need; the person who has already taken the language test in the form of an oral examination of the Estonian language.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U145	Thank you for your question. It is certainly one side of the matter, which are the obstacles, why a loyal person who wants to acquire the citizenship of the Republic of Estonia cannot do so or why he will not apply for it. It can be discussed where this reasonable limit runs and what are the mechanical obstacles that could be arranged differently. There is another nuance to this proposal, which must certainly be considered if you re-submit such a proposal in one form or another. This proposal clearly states that this applies only to those who speak Russian as their native language. But we know that we also have a remarkable Finnish community, we have a remarkable Ukrainian community. We have a number of people whose first foreign language is English and who might prefer to take this exam in English, because it is much easier for them than doing it in Estonian. This commitment, which we would take with it, would be relatively unfathomable if we wanted to treat all languages equally. This is an issue that should be very carefully thought out of where this border will run, which languages, when giving this opportunity to large ethnic minorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U146	Ken-Marti Vaher, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U147	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, This bill changes the foundations of Estonian citizenship policy in quite a number of respects, but my question is precisely that you want to waive the requirement of expressing will in one of the target groups of naturalisation. The general logic of naturalization in the Republic of Estonia has always been such that will is an unambiguous prerequisite, whether it is the will of the person himself or his legal representative. According to this draft, a fundamental amendment would now be made to the Estonian Code. I'm asking you very simply. You are one of the authors of this draft, which is the main reason why, in your opinion, one target group will no longer need to express its will in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U148	Thank you for your question. I can't find this place in this explanatory memorandum right now, but I think the explanatory memorandum said that this bill does not want to change the fundamentals of Estonian citizenship policy. There are simply different opinions as to whether they change or not. As regards whether the content of the application for stateless parents must be one way or the other, we can argue about this infinitely. I quote the Minister for the Interior who has taken office after you, who certainly does not agree with the statement that the naturalisation procedure is currently guaranteed by the parents writing a statement that the child will receive the citizenship of the country in which he or she was born if neither of them has nationality. In the new version, they agree that they will not write a statement that the child will be granted citizenship, but if they do not wish to have citizenship at the place of birth, they will write a statement and go through the relevant procedure so that the child does not become an Estonian citizen. The procedure is exactly the same, the effect or the effect is reversed. When we talk about the substance of the problem, I do not understand why the IRL is so persistently trying to keep us in a situation where we are constantly restoring citizenshiplessness, which is opposed to all the positions of human rights organisations. A large number of them have also pointed out this, but the principle opposes it by all human rights organisations that have dealt with citizenship issues at all levels. Regeneration of nationality should not be an objective of any country. I do not know why you have such an objective, why you consistently pursue it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U149	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U150	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I will read the explanatory statement on Amendment 1 which states that the Commission found that at present the provision of social education in basic school has not been organised in such a way that the acquisition of knowledge has also been verified. I have the question whether the Commission was also talking about the need to change this situation. Did anyone in the Commission meeting take part in the people responsible for controlling it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U151	No, unfortunately, the representative of the Ministry of Education had not been invited to the meeting of the Commission. In my own right, yes, as a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I admit that if we had thought ahead enough, the Ministry of Education could have asked that question. Indeed, a debate could have been held in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on what this would theoretically mean if our requirements had been clearly fixed. Perhaps in this context it should be discussed that this part of education should also be fixed in such a way that these hours can be taken into account. Unfortunately, we did not have such a debate. It would certainly be interesting to come back to this subject. In this case, however, we in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as I have already said, supported the expert who we have in the form of the former Minister of Education, Jaak Aaviksoo.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U152	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U153	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I have to ask now that it is interesting and interesting whether any human rights organisation has said that the principles applied in Estonian citizenship policy, including those you are going to change here, are contrary to the rule of law. In my understanding, first of all, writing a statement is perfectly normal. Secondly, these people, now at least 65 years old, who will be released from the written examination, were 20 years and more younger at the time of the application of the Citizenship Act. Moreover, when it comes to trying to ensure easier access to citizenship in any way, this affects relatively few people. In my opinion, all these excuses have been sought and can be argued against with complete success.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U154	I have no doubt, Andres, that you want to argue with them. I didn't understand the point of your question, but it was more about letting you know what your point of view is. You think you could continue to reproduce citizenship as it has now been and which has been brought to the attention of human rights organisations. I would like to remind you here that for many years you have been the head of the Estonian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The European Commissioner for Human Rights is working with this organisation, who has drawn attention to this. I do not recall that you and this Commissioner in Europe have openly waged major wars on this issue or said that he is on the wrong track. I respect this institution very much, and this draft law is also based on the opinion of this institution. But that is not the main issue. The main issue is that we have a number of children in Estonia who, because their parents have not written a statement for one reason or another, for example, sometimes they have not known or been able to write an application, are deprived of nationality. This is a problem that this bill will solve. I still don't understand your attack on the emotional level. And since the elections are about to be held, an apology, here I am now exceeding the mandate of the Commission rapporteur, it will be interesting to listen to your party's internal debates on citizenship issues. I mean, many of my fine former colleagues have given up their names as representatives of the Free Party. It is interesting to listen to your views on Estonian citizenship policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U155	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U156	Thank you. Honourable waitress! However, I had a very clear question: are there human rights organisations that have claimed that the principles of Estonian citizenship policy do not comply with the principles of the rule of law? I don't understand them. And in the Council of Europe, there is no point in arguing with the Commissioner for Human Rights about Estonia, because these are not issues of this level of detail. The fact that from time to time there will be some kind of proposals that are indicative and debatable is a matter of its own accord.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U157	Now, if you look to the left when you're born to look to the left, there's Mailis Reps, who, just like me, and much longer has worked with you in the Council of Europe. We know very well that the Commissioner for Human Rights believes that there is a major problem when one country restores citizenship. And if there is such a simple solution to this, as stated in this law, it is incomprehensible why the Estonian state has so far failed to do so. As for your question of whether it is stated anywhere that Estonia is violating human rights, I do not remember that it is written in documents somewhere. However, it has been referred to and a document with this wording certainly exists that if Estonia wants to better protect human rights, it should make changes to the legislation so that citizenship is not re-produced.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U158	Ken-Marti Vaher, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U159	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I understand from your answers that Estonian citizenship policy restores citizenship in such a way that the will is required to be expressed by those people who want citizenship by naturalisation. It's, I understand, your understanding. This requirement should be abolished for certain target groups. You referred vaguely to certain human rights organisations and their recommendations. Could you mention another principle or rule of Estonian citizenship policy that you also believe will restore citizenshiplessness and what should be changed?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U160	Good colleague Ken! This time I will not go beyond the role of the Commission rapporteur. I will no longer discuss our understanding as to whether the free will of a person can be manifested in such a way as to fail to make a statement, or whether his will must be expressed only in such a way that he or she makes a statement. I would not go into further discussion on this issue and would not dismantle the points of the Citizenship Act that this bill does not deal with.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U161	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U162	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Commission waitress! In your committee meeting, have you discussed, for example, the recommendations and opinions of the Committee against Racial Discrimination, or have you also discussed the recommendations he made to us when Mr Muižnieks visited Estonia, and what ideas have been discussed in the important committees of the Council of Europe?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U163	From the Commission's discussion, I recall Mr Herkel's statement that he had to defend the uniforms of his Estonian colleagues when he met someone on issues concerning human rights. But since I don't have a copy of the protocol, how it was, what it was said, what Andres said, and whose honor he still defended, and how, I'm not about to pass it on.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U164	No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Ken-Marti Vaher, please! I'll give you more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U165	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! We have before us today at second reading a draft which, in the opinion of the IRL Group and in the opinion of many experts, basically changes Estonian citizenship policy. In my opinion, this'regeneration of citizenshiplessness', which sounded several times in the recent debate, is not happening in Estonia. Our citizenship policy so far has been based on very clear rules for quite many years. They have been understandable even for those who have been calling for the so-called 'zero option' for years. In my opinion, such unjustified games, which have unfortunately fallen into the pre-election period, do not really deserve candles. They are short-sighted and certainly do not serve long-term interests in our society. There are three important pillars in this draft that are going to change. The first pillar, which has also been discussed at length here today, is the abolition of the requirement to express the will of a person or his representative in respect of the naturalisation of citizenship in a particular target group. This has been one of the most important principles of our citizenship policy. The expression of wishes is required of people who wish to acquire Estonian citizenship by naturalisation. The change automatically means imposing Estonian citizenship, which has so far been unthinkable. This solution does not make sense; it does not value the loyalty relationship that should arise between the Estonian state and a particular person. At a later stage, a person must, or must, perceive that it is not just a privilege that is added, but also a clear contractual relationship with unambiguous obligations. Let me remind you, for years now, the Estonian state has shown considerable hospitality to the children born here by stateless parents. No matter what some so-called human rights organisations and their reports say, these children receive Estonian citizenship as a result of a certain procedure, but basically without any conditions. To do so, however, a clear declaration of the parent's will is expected. For years, the Estonian state has also made efforts to raise people's awareness and inform them of the right their child has when it comes to two stateless parents. In my opinion, the abolition of the requirement to express will, the automatic imposition of citizenship, also means the devaluation of citizenship as a valuable privilege, which also opens the door to further dilutions, which, unfortunately, have been discussed in this Chamber even today. Secondly, our citizenship policy so far has been based on the clear principle that, at the same time, a person can have one citizenship and a loyalty relationship with one country. This means refusing to have multiple nationality at the same time. In particular, this concerns those who acquire naturalisation. This bill, however, secretly legitimizes double citizenship, creates an advantage for minors who have acquired Estonian or other national citizenship by naturalisation, and essentially encourages parents to take Estonian and Russian citizenship for their children, for example. Having such double citizenship before the age of 21 is permitted in the future. In my opinion, there is no reasonable justification for creating such an advantage. There are a few cases where a parent has justified his or her child's taking two citizenships with knowledge of the fact that he or she did not know about the double citizenship ban, but this should not cancel the objective of treating everyone equally. Nor can it outweigh the fundamental principle that law-abiding people should not be put at a disadvantage than those who ignore the double citizenship ban. This amendment gives the narrow target group a clear advantage, which the absolute majority of the Estonian population do not have. And thirdly, the requirements of the language examination for people aged 65 and over are also diluted, the written part is waived. This is, in my opinion, a regrettable signal, which gives other potential applicants the false hope that the language requirements will be further reduced and will certainly offend those good citizens who have acquired citizenship by fulfilling the requirements of the written examination. The fact is also that people who have now reached the age of 65 and have not yet acquired any ability to express themselves in writing in Estonian were about twenty years younger, or golden middle age, in the golden forties when this requirement was introduced. It is quite clear that most of them do not have a written examination but a clear will to apply for citizenship, but the existence of will is also an extremely important principle when we talk about the acquisition of citizenship by naturalisation. Ultimately, in my opinion, such a game is not sensible in terms of citizenship policy. This is certainly not justified for a long time, nor is it a considered angle of approach. I also think that this foreign-language population, for whom this draft is primarily intended as a signal before the elections, actually places a great deal of importance in its life, which does not have the frameworks or limits of language or citizenship, it is better to cope, better jobs, better education or so on. Clear rules in Estonia have been a big plus in my opinion so far. The fundamentals of citizenship policy have persisted and there is no point in walking around with them lightly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U166	Jaak Aaviksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U167	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, Civil society is the basis for the survival of every state, including Estonia, and according to our constitution, the supreme authority of state. This is why citizenship issues are understandable at the centre of any political debate and should be taken extremely seriously. There must be a well-known need to amend the Citizenship Act. However, we heard a few moments ago from this very talking board that this change was largely reflected in external pressure I do not know what the initiators of this draft mean by human rights violations or racial discrimination in the Republic of Estonia. As far as I know, the right to citizenship is not regarded as a human right by any international organisation. But let it be the responsibility of the initiators of the bill. We have gradually naturalised a considerable number of loyal citizens, both from other nations and from stateless persons, with the support of the Citizenship Act based on clear principles so far. I dare confirm that Estonia's citizenship policy has been successful and is based in the best way on the interests of the Estonian people. Among other things, it should be noted positively that the large number of stateless persons acquired as a legacy of the Soviet occupation is decreasing in Estonia. However, we have so far not given in to the pressure to introduce the so-called 'zero option' of citizenship and citizenship at birth, which is contrary to national interests. We have been guided by the so-called 'blood-based citizenship' principle, which is applied by most countries. In addition to other censorships, the ability of the Estonian language plays an important role in obtaining naturalisation from the perspective of Estonian ethnic self-consciousness. And whatever is rhetorically claimed, this bill will change these foundations of citizenship policy. First, the bill violates the fundamental principle of blood-based citizenship and allows Estonian citizens to become born-based and without a declaration of will. One could take a step further: we impose citizenship on people without asking for their will or despite it. How it serves the national interests of Estonia is difficult for me to understand. Secondly, by abandoning the requirement of a written national language examination for some applicants, we give in to the forces that want the general relaxation or even the abolition of language requirements. Again, it is difficult for me to understand how it serves the national interests of Estonia. It is true that the Citizenship Act is in some respects too inflexible and does not allow for decision-making in justified cases, including for humane reasons. This situation should be changed so as not to exploit individual cases where discretion could indeed be exercised when deciding whether to grant citizenship in the interests of propaganda that are incomprehensible. I repeat, this situation should be changed, but its price must not be to abandon the principles. On behalf of the IRL Group, I propose that we interrupt the second reading of draft law 737 so that we can remain true to our principles, maintain the positive experience of the current citizenship policy and eliminate the shortcomings that we see together with a greater consensus than has been the case so far. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U168	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U169	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Estonian Central Party submitted three proposals to amend the draft amendment to the Citizenship Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and I repeat them. According to the first, persons who have completed primary or secondary education according to the Estonian national curriculum would be exempt from the examination of the Constitution and Citizenship Act. The proposed change is justified, as the high-quality tests carried out in the school's classes of social and civic education prove enough that young people know the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. I asked one Member of the Commission what the difference is if you take this exam to apply for citizenship or answer questions in the tests prescribed by the school curriculum. It doesn't matter. The position taken by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was justified by the opinion of the Ministry of the Interior. Another suggestion is that the Estonian state should also grant naturalisation to children whose parents are not citizens of any country. Children born here must be given a clear signal that they have been treated equally in Estonia and that their future does not depend on the past of their parents. The third proposal provides that people aged 65 or over should be exempted from the written examination of the Constitution and Citizenship Act. They, like the language test, could answer questions orally and also in Russian. The idea was that if there is a wish, you can also answer in Russian, but it is not mandatory. And why Russian? Because most of these people have graduated from Russian. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U170	Please, an extra three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U171	These proposals have been put forward by the Centre Party Group in different wordings for years. Their content has been the same. One reason has been the reports of the UN and European Union institutions and the proposals to reduce the number of non-citizens to Estonia. However, it turns out that these recommendations are not mandatory for Estonia; they can be placed in the drawer and forgotten. The fact that the UN intends to solve the problem of non-citizens as one of the biggest legal problems within ten years is not important to the Estonian government coalition. This seems to be the problem of the United Nations, not Estonia. The Government of the Republic and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not support the proposals of the Central Party Group. If I understand correctly, the main argument was that the naturalization principle must not be changed. It is very strange that naturalisation has evolved into a sacred cow that must not be touched. The proposals of the Government of the Republic are like improving the facade, not shaping a new and modern position. It is also strange that, while in the opposition, the Soviets supported our proposals, now in the coalition, their position has changed. And finally. Last week we discussed the integration plan until 2020. Everything was beautiful, especially in terms of goals. But if we put on one side the coalition's proposed integration plan and on the other side the coalition's position on non-citizens, we will not find much harmony. These sides don't want to exist together in any way. It turns out, on the one hand, that we have a beautiful plan, on the other hand, a real practice and internal policy. I would like to hope that a good integration agenda will also become a real policy, also for non-citizens. I repeat, today citizenship is not only a sign on paper, such as a woman or a man, but a definition of who I am and where I belong. As stated in the executive edition of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia: 'The establishment of rules relating to citizenship policy, especially naturalisation, is largely a matter of political choice. 'The Government of the Republic and the Constitutional Commission made their choices, now it is time to make a choice in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, and this choice has a price In today's open society, I think it is high time to overcome the opposition to national relations and vote for honesty and trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U172	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U173	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Today's debate on citizenship policy with two different drafts is getting very interesting. First of all, the draft will be presented by Mr Stalnukhin, who recalls how Mr Reinsalu promised in his own time in the title Take the Power to everyone's nullity. Really, there was this episode, and I remember it being discussed here. It attracted attention. Then comes Mr Vaher, who states that not one step towards the null option, fiercely responding also to the much smaller-scale amendment of the Citizenship Act, which the current government has proposed. And this really is a much smaller change than what Mr Stalnukhin presented. I am left to accept the argument that principles here really do not pay very much; they may change in the meantime in the great amplitude. I will shed some light on something that Indrek Saare did not remember and which I referred to in the Commission. Indeed, some time ago there was a sub-organisation of the Council of Europe in Estonia called the "ECRI', which is the acronym "European Commission against Racism and Intolerance'. ECRI is quite well known for its highly critical positions on any country they visit. They find some problems everywhere, regardless of the country's overall level of democracy and freedoms. I met these people, indeed, and I learned during a brief conversation that they are not familiar with all the nuances of the Estonian Citizenship Act and what we have done. But they had two very clear concerns: firstly, older people from the age of 65 should be released from the written examination, and secondly, this problem of writing statements concerning minors. This is the same subject as the main subject of this draft. By pointing out that the government already had such a bill, they reacted positively. I did some skeptical things in the Commission that they reacted to and how they reacted to. That's the situation. I have to agree with Mr Aaviksoo that there is some external pressure involved, which is not very serious and can be debated. The main question I have in this regard is what will be raised next. In my opinion, ECRI is by its very nature an organisation which, once one problem has been solved, will look for the following problems. And I did not get a clear answer to this in the Commission, either from the Minister or from anyone who supported this draft. I personally believe that the impact of this draft is relatively marginal and does not affect a very broad range of people. Whether or not this is a change in the principles of citizenship can be argued. In any case, they are not changed to a very drastic extent. But while these changes are relatively insignificant, I think they are also completely unnecessary. I am voting against this draft, i.e. in this case, for interrupting second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U174	Thank you. Lembit Kaljuvee has the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U175	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Today we have an hour or two to discuss what will become of our citizenship law or our citizenship policy, which are new directions. And since I, as a member of the group, cannot speak at third reading, I thought that I would come and say that I would vote in favour of the draft that we are currently dealing with in this Chamber. And for a number of reasons. For one reason, the national reason is this: I would like our honourable President to be able to remove his second passport, the American passport, from the drawer. He's actually born in America, and I don't mind having that passport. But I have a lot more personal questions and reasons about this subject. One reason is that my dear son-in-law did very well on the citizenship exam, but unfortunately he did not take Estonian citizenship, even though he has worked successfully here for 17 years. He didn't take the citizenship of our country because his mother and father didn't want him to give up American citizenship. There are very few of us, Estonian citizens. We could have gotten to a citizen. In addition, I have another personal reason for us to sometimes get here on a personal matter as well. Two of my four grandchildren have double citizenship. One of these double-citizen children is already 16 years old. He's asked me several times, Grandpa, if I'm going to have to give up one citizenship or another. He doesn't want to give up either. He says how I'm gonna tell my dad that I'm giving up your citizenship, so-called paternal, he's got it in his mouth, and he doesn't want to tell my mom that either. So there is a pretty serious problem here, and I think I am not the only example, there are quite a lot of children like this in Estonia. We are few, and why can we not allow double citizenship in certain cases? The draft law under discussion proposes that this be possible, and that is why I will certainly vote in favour of it and against the interruption of the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U176	Thank you very much. Now Marko Pomerance, two minutes on the spot!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U177	Thank you. Herkel has a procedural question. Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U178	Thanks! Just for the sake of historical truth, I note that Andres Herkel was talking here about how he explained to the fighters against racism, how a great country Estonia is and how things really are here. I mean, he didn't do it alone. If this report is going to be very good, please congratulate me as well. But if we get not a very good assessment, then Herkel and I are both guilty.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U179	Yes, an absolutely procedural question. Marko Pomerants, my biggest compliments, we were really alone. But Indrek Saar mentioned my name in his speech. And the other thing I want to point out is that the draft law currently being discussed does not regulate double citizenship in the sense that Lembit Kaljuvee spoke about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U180	Thank you. Now the word will be given to Indrek Saar. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U181	Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I'd like to apologize to Andres Herkel if I remembered wrong. However, this is the way I remembered, at least he gave the impression that he had to defend the honour of the Estonian Parliament alone. But I'm sorry if I misinterpreted your words! For our own benefit, we saw the interpretation of the involuntaryness of listening to other people in this Chamber again in a very bright form. I guess this has happened before. Whether the desire not to listen or demagogue has certainly been demonstrated by the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance as a superexample here. Andres Herkel knows this party or at least part of that party very well. Just as their conduct has often been two-faced, so Jaak Aaviksoo, today's representative of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, spoke about demagogy and half-truths in this remote area, reflecting perhaps the desire not to listen to people. One of the clearest examples of this is that I said the name of an important institution, which I think is the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe, repeatedly asked questions in the Chamber. Mr Muizhnieks, who last came here, has always been our good partner. We always refer to him and his views are very rarely questioned when it comes to human rights, for example, in our eastern neighbour's country or Azerbaijan or in third or fourth countries. If he refers to us, some of us think that it is an abstract institution of some suspicious background with nothing to do with its views. But it doesn't matter. What matters is what this law does when the bill is adopted. This law gives the protection of the legal Estonian state to those children who will be born in the Republic of Estonia. Until now, some children do not enjoy this protection because their parents are both without nationality. This is called the reproduction of citizenshiplessness, where some children are left with the nationality of the country of birth because their parents either have not been sufficiently informed or simply have not understood how important this protection of the law is for the child and have not submitted the relevant statement. When I listened to Mr Aaviksoo's speech, a parallel came to my mind. I remembered one of the books I read, one of the movies I saw and a self-played show. This bright parallel came with the 'Reigi Teacher', where the clergyman read the word of God and wanted to make the world a better place, but he did not listen to people very much; he did not bother to observe what was happening carefully. And he was not happy and was not happy with the people around him. Socialists like Tammsaare very much. The same happened to Vargamäe Andres, who used to read too much of only one literary work and did not want to listen well to what people were saying around. He did not want to think about what it would be, which would make people a little happier, how to be a little happier themselves, and pushed on his truth consistently. But at least he realized that in everything he imposed on his children and neighbors, he was wrong. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U182	I very much hope that our ladies and gentlemen, who are on the same path, will begin to notice a little more that there are many more colours in society and will let go of their rigid position. I hope that they will not frighten us and the Estonian public with some abstract force that threatens us with gender and comorra, if we make very important changes to a small part of Estonian society for them to make their lives a little easier and they feel that this country cares a little bit more about them. It would lead us to something terrible because it was just the beginning. I hope there will be a time when we will act a little more responsibly. We can do no matter how much to increase our external defence capabilities, but if our own society is not sufficiently united, then we are easily under attack. History has proved this repeatedly both in the past and now. We are the weakest if our society is not united. This bill is a small, but still an important step in this direction to say to a part of society that, yes, we care about you, you are necessary here, it is your country. Especially in today's day, we need to think about it. So many different things have been said here, there have been many interesting statements. Let me remind you once again that this law basically deals with three issues. The first is what we have talked about most about here, i.e. automatic Estonian citizenship through naturalisation for children born into a family where neither parent has citizenship. The second is the modernisation of the law in the sense that, when the Republic of Estonia was created, there was one difference in the law: persons over 65 years of age need not take its written part in the language examination for citizenship, just an oral examination. Since it was defined by the number of years and this year has always moved forward, our proposal is to define it by the age of 65. And the third very important issue is the so-called Kohtla-Järve girl's case, i.e. the forced removal of her second nationality by minor means. For example, in 2013, 23 minors were thus deprived of their citizenship. This certainly concerns the grandchildren of Lembit Kaljuvee, but not the President of the Republic of Estonia. I think this bill is worth all the time to finish the second reading and carry out the third reading in this Chamber. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U183	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U184	Thank you very much. And please speak on the subject, Jaak Aaviksoo.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U185	Thank you! Since I was appointed here several times, I just want to express my satisfaction that the Board of the Riigikogu has approved our code of ethics. I think it's going to need more and more.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U186	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. There are six amendments to the draft law, we will review them. Amendment 1 is from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the proposal of the commission is to disregard it. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U187	Thank you. I would like to vote on the first amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U188	Let us move to the preparation of the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 1, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. This has not been taken into account by the Steering Committee. Please take a stand and vote. 16 votes to 59 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 2 is from the Estonian Central Party Group, which has been partially taken into account by the commission. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U189	I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U190	Let's vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 2, made by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, which has been partially taken into account by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. 20 MPs voted in favour, 51 against and 2 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 3 has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 4 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group; the proposal of the commission is to disregard it. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U191	I would like to ask for the fourth amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U192	Let us vote on the amendment. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 4, made by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. The Governing Commission's proposal is to disregard this. Please take a stand and vote. 16 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 60 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 5 is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the lead committee: take full account. Proposal No 6 is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the lead committee: take full account. The amendments have been examined. The Board of the Riigikogu has received a statement from the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union proposing to interrupt the second reading of the Bill 737 amending the Citizenship Act and the State Fees Act. We will vote on this proposal. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union to interrupt the second reading of Bill No 737 of the Act amending the Citizenship Act and the State Fees Act. Please take a stand and vote. 15 MPs voted in favour, 62 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U193	Our fifth item today is the second reading of the draft law amending the professional law initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like a speech chair with Mart Meri, member of the Committee on Culture. Sorry, waitress! Honourable hall, please keep it down a bit. Please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U194	Ladies and gentlemen, It is recalled that the main aim of the draft professional law, which reached its second reading today, is to establish a legal framework for the development of the education system and the cooperation capacity of the labour market. The draft will provide the basis for the establishment of a coordination body that will unite all parties involved in the development of labour force skills and the organisation of lifelong learning. In addition, the organisation of the activities of the educational institution as a professional is clarified and some other issues arising from the implementation of the professional law are also resolved. The first reading of the draft decision took place on 5 November. No proposals were received from members of the Riigikogu or from groups of delegates by the deadline of 19 November. However, specific proposals were received from the Ministry of Education and Research and through the Chamber of Professional Councils from the Assembly of Presidents. The Commission itself initiated legislative and regulatory changes, and as a result of the discussions, the Committee on Culture finalised 17 amendments, all of which received unanimous support from the Commission. The Committee on Culture discussed the preparation of the second reading on 11 November and 2, 8 and 15 December. Representatives of the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Chamber of Professionals and the Ministry of Education and Research participated in the discussion on 11 November. On 8 December the Committee on Culture decided to submit draft 743 for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 17 December with a proposal to terminate the second reading. Since the amendments did not give rise to any disagreements within the Commission and the second reading explanatory memorandum is sufficiently comprehensive, I would not be able to address the amendments in isolation here. But I'm willing to answer your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U195	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you, Mart Meri! Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. We will examine the amendments to the draft. There are 17 amendments, all made and taken fully into account by the Committee on Culture. Let's review them one at a time: Nos 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 and 17. The amendments have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft. Second reading of the bill is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U196	Today's sixth item is the second reading of the draft Act amending the VAT Act and the VAT Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The manager is taking a one-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U197	Let's get back to the hearing. The sixth item is the second reading of the draft Act amending the VAT Act and the VAT Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Rannar Vassilyev, Chairman of the Monetary Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U198	The draft law amending the VAT Act and the VAT Act was discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 9 and 15 December. The purpose of the draft is to amend and repeal the provisions of the VAT Act in force from 1 January 2015 applying the reverse charge scheme for precious stones. No proposals were received from members of the Riigikogu, political groups or committees by the deadline of 12 December at 15. No further issues or questions were raised in the Commission. The Commission took the following consensual decisions: to put the draft on the agenda on Wednesday 17 December and to conclude the second reading, to make the third reading on 18 December at the end of the second reading and to put it to a final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U199	Thank you. It's about Kadri Samson. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U200	Thank you! The draft law was initiated on 1 December. It was a time when the budget had not yet been adopted, but the draft had already passed two readings in the Riigikogu. The draft will remove the gems from the reverse charge bill and it should cost several million to the budget for next year. Is this possible loss of revenue accounted for in the budget and, if so, when was it to be taken into account in part?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U201	This is not the exact angle that the Committee on Monetary Affairs has found. But in general, you could expect, or let's say, the Ministry of Finance assumed by handing over the bill that this permission would come. However, I believe that the budget also took into account the risk that this authorisation could not come. As far as I am concerned, there is no sentence in the draft explanatory memorandum that there will be additional revenue from the application of the reverse charge of precious stones. If I'm wrong, I'm sorry. However, this issue has not been raised and I have not specifically examined it. As far as I can remember, it does not appear in the explanatory memorandum, so I assume that as far as the reverse charge of precious stones is concerned, there should be no problem with the estimated VAT receipts. The Ministry of Finance has not raised this issue because of the knowledge they have had since October. The Ministry of Finance has known since October that the European Commission will not allow reverse charge in this form. Yes, the budget had been submitted to us, but within that period, corrections could certainly have been made if, according to these forecasts, there was a risk that this amendment might call into question the VAT receipts.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U202	Thank you. Kadri Simson, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U203	We handled the budget on the basis of adopted laws. And this law, which we are changing, was assumed when it was still in force that the tax hole would decrease next year and that there would have to be an additional 7 to 8 million VAT. Now half of its impact will be erased and it will obviously have an impact on the state budget for next year. Is it correct to make changes after the adoption of the budget, in which case the planned VAT will be reduced to the budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U204	That's a good question. But as I replied, these forecasts are the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance, together with the Tax and Customs Board. As far as VAT receipts are concerned, there has been no proposal for cooperation between these authorities. And they have known since October that reverse charge cannot actually be applied. I assume that they have reviewed the VAT forecast and maybe in the intervening period the forecast has been slightly revised. Whether by reducing other tax holes or by increasing overall consumption, it is perhaps possible to cover this VAT deficit, which is due to the fact that the European Commission does not allow reverse charge in the case of gemstones.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U205	Thank you. No further questions. Thank you very much. Do you want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. No amendments to the draft were received. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 793. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U206	The seventh item is the second reading of Bill 794 of the Tax Exchange Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask Aivar Sõerdi, Member of the Monetary Commission, to present the speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U207	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee discussed the draft Tax Exchange Act in preparation for its second reading at its meeting on 15 and 16 December. Once again, I will give a brief overview of the substance of the draft. Its content is the exchange of information in tax matters. National law is intended to bring into line with the Agreement on the exchange of information in tax matters concluded with the United States and ratified in June. Secondly, the aim is to create the prerequisites for implementing the new EU and OECD tax exchange standards. The purpose of the exchange of information is to reduce the possibilities for taxable persons in the United States of America to hide income and evade taxes. This concerns us because if the financial institution does not provide the requested information to the United States of America, 30% of the payments made by that financial institution will be withheld in the United States of America. In essence, it is a sanctioning rate. In order to bring national law into line with the FATCA Agreement, the same new law, the Tax Exchange Act, will be created. The integration of international rules on automatic tax exchange into the new law makes them understandable for taxpayers, financial institutions and the Tax and Customs Board supervising the whole matter. There is also a presumption that the new EU and OECD tax exchange standards based on FATCA will be transposed next year. The law would still need to be adopted this year so that all financial institutions can meet the new reporting period starting on 1 January on a uniform and clear basis. I would also stress that this law does not create any new tax liability or increase the tax liability of persons complying with tax laws. The FATCA Agreement and, more generally, any exchange of tax information are intended only to reduce cross-border tax evasion. No amendments came from the Riigikogu by the deadline of 12 December. However, the Commission made four amendments. The Commission meetings, which took place on 15 and 16 December, were mainly interested in two issues. First, how it is established in the performance of the contract that the customer is resident for tax purposes in the United States. The answer was that the bank must exercise due diligence, including requiring written confirmations from the client. They require the bank to identify potential US tax residents and to transmit information about them to the tax authorities. In case of doubt, enquiries can be made, including to the tax authorities on the basis of tax agreements. The second issue was the question of what is the common part of tax residence and e-residency. The answer to this question was that tax residence is internationally agreed and defined, while e-residency, according to current knowledge, is the concept of using Estonian ID and IT opportunities by citizens of another country. There's just a verbal coincidence, basically, these things don't overlap. As I said, the Commission has tabled four amendments. Amendments 1 and 2 have been made in cooperation with the Estonian Banking Association, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice and concern that the persons on whom the data are collected and transmitted have the right to be informed. Amendment 3 brings the text of the draft more closely into line with the financial institutions' right to decide on the application of more favourable rules for a certain period of time and makes a reference clarification. Amendment 4 sets out the date of entry into force of the draft, which is 1 January 2015. I admit that the government initiated the draft a little late and did not take into account the normal pace of the procedure of the Riigikogu. At the same time, the Commission is convinced that a law is needed from the beginning of next year, and that has also been said by the market participants themselves, with whom we had the opportunity to meet. The consensual proposal of the Committee on Monetary Affairs is to conclude the second reading and, if the second reading is closed, to take the final vote on Thursday, i.e. tomorrow. This too was a consensual decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U208	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you, Aivar Sõerd! Do you want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. Let us examine the amendments. These have all been done by the commission, the Committee on Monetary Affairs, so there is a proposal to take them fully into account. So, Amendment 1, No 2, No 3, No 4. The amendments have been examined. The commission has proposed that the second reading of draft 794 be terminated. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U209	Our eighth item on the agenda is the second reading of the draft law amending the General Part of the Environmental Code Act 781. For a presentation, please address the Chair of the Environment Committee, Rainer Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U210	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We are indeed ahead of the draft law amending the law implementing the general part of the environmental code. It was launched by the Committee on the Environment on 17 November 2014. The first reading was closed on 2 December and the deadline for submitting amendments was 5 December. The members of the Riigikogu, political groups and other committees did not propose amendments to the draft, but the Committee on the Environment made one amendment. Its content is that the wording of the rule is amended and provides that Chapter 5 of the General Part of the Environmental Code Act enters into force by the law implementing it. This regulation does not necessarily require a separate implementation law, but allows the entry into force of Chapter 5 of one of the special laws governing the permit granting procedure, which first passes the procedure in the Riigikogu. I ask you, too, to support this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U211	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you, Rainer Vakra! Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. One amendment to the draft was received from the Committee on the Environment, and the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. The amendment has been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U212	Our ninth item on the agenda is the first reading of the draft law amending the Code of Enforcement Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 803. I would like to present the speech chair to Minister of Justice Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U213	Madam President! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I would like to introduce you to the draft law amending the law on enforcement proceedings initiated by the Government of the Republic and, in this connection, to the amendment of other laws, the so-called draft law on maintenance. With this draft, we are trying to take a major step towards ensuring that the money needed, first and foremost, for their children can be recovered from the evaders of the payment of a living. The aim of the draft is to provide for robust national enforcement measures for the evasion of child maintenance payments. The state must support children, but if parents fail to fulfil their obligations, some of them still live at risk of poverty. The draft includes changes that have a direct impact on people who owe a child's livelihood. The goal is to make people pay for their living more conscientiously. The nature of the problem is also illustrated by the fact that every year the courts make more than 1,000 decisions on how to make a living, some of which go into the hands of bailiffs because the parents do not pay for a living. The bailiffs are also unable to recover a very large amount of maintenance claims. As of the beginning of the year, for example, there are more than 12,000 maintenance claims in enforcement proceedings and the resulting debt of more than EUR 10 million. In order to improve this situation, we have provided leverage for the whole package, which should significantly improve the state of affairs. In the future, the court will be able to suspend the debtor's right to drive a motor vehicle, as well as a recreational craft, to withdraw his hunting certificate, weapons permit and fishing card in the event of his failure to pay without a valid reason for the maintenance. It is important to point out here that the suspension of these rights is decided by the court and the court will certainly consider whether or not the debtor of a child's livelihood needs a driving licence to work and earn a living. Certainly, the court will not suspend the validity of professional drivers' driving licences because they are needed to make money to pay for a living. From now on, the bailiff is obliged to contact the debtor every two months to find out why he or she is not fulfilling the child's maintenance obligation, the amount of his or her income and how he or she intends to liquidate the debt. In cases where it has not been possible to recover maintenance from the debtor, the bailiff shall, at least once a year, search the premises and land held by the debtor. This will give the bailiff a better overview of what the debtor really has. In the future, the debtor of a child's livelihood will not be able to receive support from a private forest owner and start-up support. The law includes the condition that the application for the allowance is rejected if the person is subject to enforcement proceedings in respect of the child's maintenance. The limitation period for a child's maintenance claim is extended from three to ten years, as the practice has shown that a maintenance claim cannot always be recovered within three years. An adult student in a higher education institution is entitled to claim a child's livelihood until he or she reaches the age of 21. Under current law, an adult youth has the right to claim maintenance from the parent until the age of 21 if he or she continues to complete primary or secondary education in primary, secondary or vocational schools. It must be acknowledged that there is no real reason to distinguish between these young people, both children who receive secondary education and children who receive university education need the same parental support. The bill clarifies the concept of the debtor's income to be seized and allows the income to be frozen by including the benefit in kind received in relation to the person's employment relationship. Some debtors are also granted benefits in kind by their employers, such as free use of a car or a place of residence. With the bill, the bailiff can count the benefits in kind from such an employment relationship as a person's remuneration. As a result, the debtor's considerable income increases and the bailiff is able to seize the cash payment to a large extent. In addition, bailiffs shall be given the right to seize the funds which the debtor is obliged to pay to third parties if the financial obligations paid to third parties in one month exceed the amount of the debtor's non-secured income provided for in one month. The amendment seeks to obtain hidden money from a bailiff paid to third parties for the performance of the debtor's obligations in cash or using other persons' accounts. When applying for state legal aid, children are exempted from explaining their financial position in the matter of maintenance. Removing this obligation will make it easier to apply for state legal aid in a maintenance case and will speed up the examination of applications. Finally, I note that the law is designed to enter into force in two parts. The provisions of the draft act concerning the restriction of the debtor's rights will enter into force on 1 March 2016 in order to allow sufficient time for the development of registers. The remaining provisions will enter into force on 1 July next year, leaving bailiffs a transitional period to adapt to the new regulation. I hope that the draft will receive great support in the Riigikogu! Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U214	Thank you very much. The question is Margus Tsahknal. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U215	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I would first like to acknowledge that such a bill has reached this Chamber of the Riigikogu. The problem of living allowance is very serious for parents raising children alone, as you have also noted in your report. But I don't think that's enough. In addition, there should also be a second party, a public maintenance fund, to guarantee monthly payments to children for whom the other parent does not fulfil his or her obligations. All the measures provided for in this draft will certainly help to call for a living allowance, but how do you feel about the idea of creating a public maintenance fund?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U216	Thank you. First of all, thank you for the credit! But I will certainly add that, in my opinion, this draft law is the first step towards ensuring that in the future, by adopting a decision to set up a maintenance fund, all the requirements that have arisen in this Chamber are met. Personally, I certainly support the idea of this livelihood fund, and I think that it is only with this attitude that it is possible to ensure equal treatment for all, say, children in different positions and their single parents. It is a fact that even with the ideal functioning of the future law being discussed today, some debtors may lose their child's livelihood.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U217	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U218	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. I also say my congratulations and I do not believe that there are any political parties in the Riigikogu that oppose this bill. In any case, it is a step in the right direction and strength for you! But when could this law come into force? And will the requirements be reviewed retroactively?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U219	Thank you. But the entry into force of the law depends on you. The government's draft is, as I mentioned, dated 1 March 2016. As regards the limitation of these rights, since they relate to different registers, we have worked seriously with other ministries precisely in order to decide the optimal time for all procedures relating to the registration of cars, the registration of weapons, the register of fishing permits to be carried out electronically. In this case, for example, a traffic police officer can check the driver's driving licence on the road in an operational manner, after all, today you do not have to carry a driver's licence, whether a particular person has been suspended for any reason. So this is a purely technical task. But everything else that concerns the work of bailiffs is valid from 1 July 2015. They also need to make certain adjustments in their daily work, as they are accompanied by a great deal of serious commitments.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U220	Thank you. Please, Liisa-Ly Pakosta!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U221	Thank you very much. I also welcome this bill and the fact that you see a whole, including a living fund. And as for the whole, I'm going to ask you outside the subject of this bill what the Ministry sees as prevention. What should be done to prevent the matter from going through a settlement court to collect, not to mention chasing that money?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U222	Let's just say that it is not easy to achieve an ideal situation in people-to-people communication by legal methods. Our ministry's various analyses also show that, for example, the organisation of the right of access also depends primarily on the parents getting along. But in itself, why is this bill on this table today too? I dare say that the fact that you may be deprived of any rights-benefits you have every day if you do not meet your child's obligations is certainly a preventive measure and will make a few parents pay their children a living.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U223	Thank you. Please, Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U224	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! In my opinion, this draft is a very serious step forward in order to demand from debtors the maintenance they owe to their children. However, if you were to dismantle this new idea, which has already been touched in this Chamber today, that is to say, that the next step could be to create a livelihood fund alongside it, then I had the feeling that this fund was actually demotivating the survivors from trying to make sure they weren't debtors. It's very easy for them to tell the other parent to turn to this fund, it'll pay you anyway. How's your initial assessment now, is that a smart idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U225	I would like to say that the idea of a living fund is still in the circle of discussions. It has been used by a number of our closest neighbours, for example, in Finland next door. Surely there are some individuals who are trying to take advantage of it somehow. But without relying on a deeper analysis right now, I can say that the idea of a living fund is that the difficulty of recovering money goes from one parent to the state. The burden he has placed on his shoulders will be on the country's shoulders. This bill triggers certain coercive measures, but, in summary, this whole legal and often social challenge must be carried out by this unfortunate single parent, who is certainly in a weaker position than the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U226	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U227	Thank you, manager. Good minister! The Act enters into force on 1 March 2016. But what about those who are now in debt and who are still living the same way until that period? Can they still feel secure, or must they meet this requirement retroactively?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U228	As I said in my report, the expiry date for a child's maintenance claim will be extended from three to ten years.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U229	Thank you. Please, Liisa-Ly Pakosta, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U230	Thank you. The second question is largely due to the misguidedness of a good colleague, Kalle. Therefore, I ask: is it true that both the draft and the maintenance fund mean that the economic rights of each child are protected regardless of their parents' relationship with each other? Is the objective of ensuring that all parents fulfil their obligations to support the child?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U231	Yes, I am largely of the same opinion. One goal is to force reckless parents to carry out their duties. But the second goal is that if this coercion has not been useful for the first time and there is a chance that in the future the money will still be recovered, then the children will be guaranteed an equal situation with those who are supported by their parents.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U232	Please, Kalle Laane, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U233	Thank you. In response to my good colleague Liisa, I understand what this bill and the livelihood fund are all about. But I dare say today, when we discuss this bill and bring in the idea of a fund, we are confusing two things. One is just an idea, the other one is waiting for an application, and when we discuss them together, there will be mush and cabbages. I agree that there must be no children in Estonia who are owed a living and who cannot therefore live a normal life. Therefore, the question to the Minister: perhaps it makes no sense to talk about the idea of a livelihood fund in this phase of the procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U234	I think the members of the Riigikogu are free to ask questions. My last memory of the Riigikogu a year ago was that when asked, the Minister was obliged to respond. And if asked for his personal opinion, he could say it. However, yes, you are right that today's draft is aimed specifically at enforcing coercive measures, which is certainly only the first but very important step.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U235	Thank you. Please, Peter Laurson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U236	Thank you. Good waitress! Let me get this straight. As a result of this bill, the parent raising the child is going to receive a living from the state, and then the state is trying to collect a living allowance from a parent who avoids paying it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U237	Absolutely not. The draft states that the court and bailiffs will be given additional opportunities to squeeze survivors in order to enforce their obligations on children. In general, a single parent who raises a child still has the right to collect a maintenance debt. We are talking about additional measures to force the debtor of a child's livelihood to fulfil his or her obligations.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U238	Thank you. Please, Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U239	Thank you. My question is also due to the questions of my good colleague Kalle. After all, a living fund is undoubtedly necessary in the interests of these same children, not in the interests of their parents, but in the interests of their children. Those who oppose the fund have said that it is very difficult for the state to recover money from debtors and that, as a result, the state and honest taxpayers face a heavy burden. But if this money is difficult for the country, then it will undoubtedly be very difficult for a distressed parent. He has to raise a child, and in the same area, you have to wonder how to get the money. The country is in a much stronger position here, and that is why a livelihood fund is needed. The country is a stronger demander and it is probably wise to share this burden in this way. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U240	In itself, this is the right direction. The figures show that 10 million euros of children's money is spread out in a field somewhere. We have 12,000 maintenance claims. And indeed, the fact is that it is very difficult for single parents to deal with it alongside their child's daily parenting. Today's draft law is certainly a step towards a more forceful intervention by the state in receiving the allowance. If we are to take the next steps, we need to analyse everything properly and look for parallels on how the system works in other countries. But everything will be for one purpose only: to ensure that children are protected to the maximum possible extent even if their parents have failed to fulfil their obligations.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U241	Thank you. Please, Peter Laurson, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U242	Thank you. Good waitress! Do you agree with me that the next step should be that a parent raising a child should not spend years demanding a living allowance, but that if there is a problem, the state will deal with it vigorously itself? A parent would receive money through a living fund, and the state would charge it to a shunning parent itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U243	After all, the principle is that if a parent who has failed to fulfil his obligations cannot really fulfil them, then the state must certainly come to the rescue. I would like to emphasise once again: today's draft proposes the first measures. If, in the future, such a thing as a maintenance fund should be implemented, these primary measures will be very strong support for moving forward and getting the money better.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U244	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much, Minister of Justice. For a co-report, I would like to ask Valdo Randpere, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U245	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, As the debate did indeed turn out to be that the mash and cabbages came in, I would like to say, as an introduction, that in the committee session, the issue of this fund also came up well. I also state my personal position: this fund itself is not a means of escape or a miracle. In fact, the solution is that parents should freely agree with each other, honestly fulfilling their responsibilities. If they do not do so, this bill will be a very good step towards the country implementing the coercive and the pressure for parents to do so. The title of the draft is currently the 'Law amending the Code of Enforcement Procedure and related amendments to other laws'. It could be peacefully renamed the Law of Raven Elders. After all, this is a serious step towards helping parents who find it difficult to get a living from the other side. But now I will go a little bit more directly to the Commission's debate. This draft was discussed by the Commission on Monday, 8 December. Igor Gräzin, Jüri Morozov, Kalle Jents, Kalle Laane, Mikhail Korb and Valdo Randpere, and Linnar Liivamägi and Raini Laid, took part. There was no Ken-Mart Vaher, Marko Pomerants and Peter Võsa. We were presented by Andres Anvelt, Minister of Justice, and by Kristen Kanarik, Minister of Justice. When discussing the draft, the Commission raised some questions. For example, the age limit for the payment of maintenance allowance rose, which this bill intends to change. At present, parents are obliged to pay a living for their children until they reach the age of 21 when they study in comprehensive school or upper secondary school. This bill also introduces studying at a higher education institution: it also gives the child the right to ask for a living. We also touched on the question of how we can identify the incomes that debtors are trying to hide. We were briefed on the rights and obligations of the executive officer to carry out searches against the debtor. Once again, on the other side, I would like to stress what the Minister said in this Chamber: the problem is that, if we compare the amount of money owed, this amount has increased tenfold from 2006 until this year. This is not only about EUR 10 million, but also about the fact that the amount has increased tenfold. The trend is very worrying, and that is why the Ministry of Justice is in front of us with such a bill. But what, in turn, have they relied on? They haven't invented it in a completely empty place. From the point of view of Estonian legislation, it is a "milestone" in foreign language, a kilometer post in Estonian. Similar practices are applied in quite a number of foreign countries, including the United States, Canada, the Czech Republic and Slovakia. By the way, in Australia, debtors of a child's livelihood are forbidden to leave the country. Looks like it's very effective. The findings of the studies are known specifically from the United States of America. Some states have put in place a procedure that allows the debtor of a child's livelihood to be temporarily deprived of the right to drive a motor vehicle, to withdraw professional and professional licences, and to withdraw recreational and sporting licences. The State of Washington compared the effectiveness of maintenance requirements six months before the suspension of the right to drive and six months after the implementation of this measure. The survey showed that three times more money could be recovered after the suspension of the right to drive. That could be a good tip for us. These measures are effective and maybe we don't have to think too much about this dream fund. This fund also means, unfortunately, that honest taxpayers will assume the duties of raven parents. Basically, that should not be the case. Based on my experience, I can tell all parents that, of course, this is a bitter moment when there is a divorce and you have to start paying for a living. But when you have gone through this period, believe me, you will find that you have paid too little, and you will be proud that you have never erred against this obligation. So pay your children a living, and don't get any shit out of it! That's what I want to say to everyone. At the same time, it is good to note that if Estonia goes this way, that the court decides to implement these measures, in certain cases it is still possible not to let them go. This is when the debtor identifies very compelling reasons why they should not be applied to him. As the Minister has already pointed out, the suspension of a professional driver's licence may deprive him of his ability to pay a living allowance. At the same time, there was a discussion in the Commission that, on the one hand, this sanction really would prevent him from paying a living allowance, but in fact, he has come into this situation precisely because he has not yet paid the child's money. There's a bit of a contradiction around here somewhere. The guy's got a driver's license, but he hasn't been volunteering without money, he's probably just hiding his income. It will be quite difficult to prove income in this situation. There's gonna be some kind of interruption somewhere. For example, the debtor can justify not paying by not having a job, being unemployed. Current practice shows that around 40% of those against whom a claim for maintenance is made do not pay, but only 4.5% of them have registered as unemployed. All I can say on behalf of the Commission is that I invite all the raven elders to come to their senses. You're not talking about taking money from you for some abstract purpose completely meaningless. This is money for your children, and if you wanted and were able to acquire these children in this world, you can take care of them too! That concludes my report.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U246	Would the Commission's rapporteur specify what is relevant to the amendments?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U247	Thank you. I forgot, I got carried away. The Commission made, of course, small procedural decisions: to take the same draft of the raven elders we are talking about here, on the agenda of the plenary on 17 December (this was a consensual decision), to propose that the first reading be closed (including a consensual decision) and to set the deadline for the amendments at 4 p.m. on 5 January 2015. So it is quite a long time to propose amendments. Valdo Randpere was appointed rapporteur. This decision also came about by consensus, although after a small competition.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U248	Thank you. And now the questions. Please, Margus Tsahkna, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U249	Thank you, good waitress. I still have a question about the maintenance fund, because at the same time the Riigikogu is also dealing with the draft maintenance fund. As the Minister of Justice said, we need to look at the whole picture. The draft law of the Roner Elders, which we are dealing with today, provides methods for better money for non-payers, but on the other hand, it still does not guarantee anything for those children who are still losing their livelihoods. The purpose of the fund is that these children receive monthly maintenance allowance at a minimum level, and the fund requires this money from their father and, in some cases, from their mother, using the same law. Would you not, however, start to support the idea of a livelihood fund, if you mean the whole picture, as elsewhere in Europe does?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U250	Well, I'd rather be in favour of the Minister of Justice then, and I'd say this could be the first step. But actually, I think this first step could be the last step. It is the pressure of the state, it is the force of the state that we are putting behind these requirements now. I don't have much faith that this force will make these parents pay better. And the other way around, when we talk about this fund, on the one hand, of course I understand the situation of these children, and I have a heart in it, but on the other hand, this principle cannot in itself be entirely right, that if we have some kind of henchmen in society who do not fulfil their obligations, then some decent people who are willing to do theirs and also theirs will immediately appear. This can't be the right idea. This is not a solution that will make our society better in the long run. Somehow, we still have to achieve that people themselves take care of their responsibilities. I think I'm the only one in this room or at least one of the very few who's ever worked as a bailiff. It was a long time ago, but basically the problem was the same. There are very few people who actually do not have any income and who do not pay child maintenance money as a result. Most of the time, it's some kind of conjugal: you write your income into a third party account, he gives you help. There's some kind of slippery and fuck-up going on. This bill also provides very good tools in order to determine a person's income. Even international cooperation may be needed to prevent him from hiding them.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U251	Thank you. Just one small mid-term review for the sake of the verbatim: this bill has its own fixed number and also its name. Rongage parents, according to nature scientists, are very caring parents of their birds for their children, so maybe that's not a very good name for this bill. But now Kaia Iva's second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U252	Thank you. Of course, I fully agree that the best thing is for parents to agree nicely on the payment of the allowance and that the problems have been solved. But I don't agree at all with your arguments against the livelihood fund. On the one hand, you stress that this bill is a very good instrument to force debtors to pay, and that is enough. On the other hand, you say that the fund cannot be created, because then the burden falls on the state and on honest taxpayers. There's a big logic problem in here. If these coercive methods are very good, then it is easier for a country that is always stronger than an individual to recover these debts. Do you agree that we should not, however, be guided by the cost of the state in question, but must still give priority to the child's interests?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U253	Good Kaia! You know how to ask, I can't tell you that I absolutely don't agree with you. I'd really make it look like a heartless, cold person. However, any study abroad where these funds exist has shown that they appear to be very ineffective. These are countries that do not have a similar toolbox prepared here to get the money. I have seen data showing that about 13% of the fund's claims are recovered from debtors. I believe that our toolkit in itself means that neither the state will be stronger nor weaker than it will be if it works through the mechanisms of today's draft or as a representative of this fund. Maybe the ravens are gonna be really mad at me now, so I guess they're good parents for their boys. But my conscience and my outlook tell me that caring for children is the responsibility of the parents themselves. They must understand it and fill it with joy, I repeat: with joy. Believe me, you will be delighted to have done so afterwards, and you will see that with your help your child has grown a good and good man!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U254	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much, Valdo Randpere. Let's open the negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, Margus Tsahkna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U255	Thank you very much. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U256	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U257	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! First of all, I am really glad that the issue of living allowance has reached this hall. I congratulate the Ministry of Justice of this remote control once again, who has prepared this draft. The part of the draft that is currently being discussed, which sets out concrete measures to make the life of debtors in child maintenance payments bitter, is very positive. But if we look at the practice in other countries, it is more likely that the way that a livelihood fund has been set up and the state itself requires the parent to pay off the maintenance allowance due. Estonia has gone a good way in this sense, that we have started with the same draft that is in the debate today. We are creating measures on how to demand a more efficient way to make life worse for debtors, but this is not the final solution. I do not agree with the previous speaker's suggestion that we take one step and let us not go further. In that case, we will not actually improve the situation of these children once and for all. We can really get more living money, but all the time that the argument is going on, during which alimony is demanded with the help of the law, there are some children without a living. There are 56000 children living with a single parent in Estonia, i.e. one in four boys or girls. We have summed up these requirements, which have already been issued over 12,000. These children are indebted to over EUR 10 million. It is, in fact, money that is owed to these children as of now, and this amount is increasing every day. If we take only one step, the system still leaves the entire process of collecting a living to the parent who raises a child or children alone and who is not paid a living allowance on the other side. That is why we in the IRL Group are still of the opinion that we are taking this one step, but we must also take the second step to achieve such a solution in the interests of children, so that they can receive a livelihood every month, even at the minimum. And the other way around, using this fund maybe this bill can make it a little more radical. I agree with Valdo Randpere that we must take away the driver's license if he needs it to earn money and pay alimony. Maybe there's something we can set up here. For example, a driving licence could be suspended until the man or woman liquidates the debt, after which he would be able to regain his right to drive. We will discuss this during the procedure. Valdo Randpere gave an example that in some countries the fund's activities have not been very effective. Our neighbouring Latvia is a good example: it is it that has failed to recover more than 13% or even below the total amount of claims. However, the example of Sweden is that the fund has recovered almost 90% of the required amount without a sanction system. So the question is, how do we build this system as a whole? It is clear that it is primarily in the interests of the children to be guaranteed every month a living allowance and, on the other hand, that we have instruments to make debtors' lives bitter. If we look at this figure of 10 million, it is indeed a very large sum for these children and for parents raising a single child. The objection of the Reform Party to the creation of a livelihood fund has been precisely why we have to pay for the failure of some people at the expense of others. But if we look at the other drafts that we have discussed here, even the system of child and family benefits and income support, their regulations are also built on solidarity. And what can be more important to our society than not to the children's coping. Specific statistical figures show that, in the most difficult economic situation, we have parents raising a child alone. From there come pensioners living alone and families with three or more children. I very much hope that this draft, which we are discussing now, will become even more precise in the course of the procedure, even more radical in order to really be able to obtain the livelihoods of these people. A bill already issued by the IRL to the Riigikogu proceedings and arriving at the large hall in January, which deals with maintenance allowance, comes next to this. If it is accepted, then the understanding of solidarity has reached all the political groups of the Riigikogu. I am pleased to note that the Social Democrats and the Centre Party have also announced that they support the principle of establishing a livelihood fund. Its need comes to everyone in this hall, and we're gonna make it happen. Valdo Randpere said that he cannot support a livelihood fund based on his conscience and outlook, and I actually understand that. Those are the world-viewed questions. But when we look at the activities of our current government for the last year, the increase in universal child support, which also goes against the world view of the Reform Party and perhaps also against conscience, was decided in this Chamber. And they will also have the opportunity to support the draft fund for maintenance at the beginning of next year. The IRL Group supports the draft that is currently being discussed. We will certainly propose amendments to make the measures proposed in this a little more precise and perhaps more radical. However, I hope that the full solution will reach a political decision in the Riigikogu next year before its composition disperses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U258	Thank you. Please, on behalf of the Group of the Valdo Randpere Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U259	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, Good Margus, you actually invited me back in front of you! It is fundamentally wrong to say that increasing child benefits is somehow contrary to the reform party's outlook. We have always felt that, under the conditions of our limited resources, we should, above all, contribute to those who really need this support. It could be needs-based. It's been that little world-viewed watermelon. But if you are already trying to take some of the weapons from you to make the bill even more radical, I will let you know that I myself have an idea that we have discussed in a smaller composition in the Commission. We have been sitting with the chairman of the committee and a few others to discuss the matter. Of course, we need to look at how data protection feels about this, but I think it would be very effective if we made public a register containing the names of those who are subject to these measures. It is not the names of those who are debtors, if the person is unemployed and has good reason to put him in a position of shame, but the names of those who have been deprived of a driving licence, of the right to drive a craft, of a weapons permit, or of any reason that they owe a living allowance. In my opinion, this list could be made public, and perhaps it would be the real motivation that would make these people move quickly. You can live without your gun, of course, but you can't live without your honor. And then I guess we won't be needing that fund. I really think that if we make a draft of 803 law and implement these measures, we can make them work, then we don't need that fund anymore. You might change your mind and let this bill become a law and work for a while before you rush on to the next one and call on us to do everything at once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U260	Thank you. Margus Tsahkna, line please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U261	My name was mentioned, and I would like to say to that by reply, that the names of these debtors have actually been made public for many years. The list of debtors for child maintenance is publicly available on the bailiffs' website, but it has not helped at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U262	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission's proposal was to conclude the first reading of draft 803. First reading is over. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft at 4 p.m. on 5 January 2015.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U263	Our tenth item on the agenda today is the first reading of the draft Adult Education Act 798 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Education and Science of the Chair, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U264	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! I will introduce you to the draft Adult Education Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The current Adult Education Act is one of the oldest comprehensive legislation in force since 1993. However, the training market and life have evolved so much that the current regulation has become obsolete and ineffective. For example, the law requires that most continuing education institutions apply for a training permit to carry out their activities. Applications for training permits shall be processed by the Ministry of Education or by the relevant Training Authorisation Commission. This is a rather voluminous procedure in terms of administrative burden, the positive impact of which is very difficult to assess as the country has no substantive capacity to effectively control the continuing training institutions. Consequently, we have proposed a new regulation to the legislator, where the current system of training licences has been replaced by a different system. In general, in the case of in-service training institutions wishing to provide further education based on the curriculum and to obtain certain benefits, in particular income tax refunds and, on the other hand, study leave for students, the requirement to register in the national education information system would apply. It would have been registered what training is offered, where it is offered, what curricula are, who are trainers and what the output is desired to achieve. It also requires that in-service training institutions have a website where all relevant information has been published. At present, the information on continuing training institutions and on the additional training they provide is extremely uneven. Very often, students face serious difficulties in understanding exactly what the institution offers and what the expected results of this training are. At the same time, the obligation to apply for a licence would remain for trainers providing training in areas of particular importance to the State or to a large extent regulated, for example, drivers' trainers, security staff, train drivers and some others. Regulation is designed in such a way that, in these specific cases, the Ministry of Education cooperates with the ministries in charge of the fields. For example, in the case of motor vehicle driver training, we cooperate with the Road Administration appointed by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications to supervise. Security personnel training is subject to a security law, and the Ministry of the Interior has imposed this supervision on the Police and Border Guard Board. The new registration and authorisation regime would enter into force on 1 July 2016. Thus, a certain transitional period would be possible for trainers to decide whether they will continue to carry out further training without complying with the requirements of the new law, i.e. not registered, meaning that their students will not receive income tax refunds and study leave, or whether they will bring their activities into line with the new law and register their curricula and activities. The draft aims to create the possibility of taking student loans in higher education even if they are part-time. This will make it easier for adult learners to obtain higher education at the appropriate pace with the workload. In addition, the age limit on receiving health insurance will be removed: the draft provides for health insurance for all holders of basic education and general secondary education, regardless of age. At present, the age limit is 21 years for primary education, 24 years for secondary education. For adults who are in education and training, the possibility of taking study leave from work will remain. So much for this bill in general. It's been working hard to develop for a long time. If you look at the draft coordination table, which is quite substantial, you will get an idea of how much work has been done. As part of this draft, we have also included activities arising from the programme of action of the Government of the Republic concerning the quality of Estonian language learning. In this context, the Language Act and the Citizenship Act are also amended: stricter requirements are imposed on providers of Estonian language training. In future, the organiser of the Estonian language refresher training will apply for a licence and the Language Inspectorate will be able to check the level of courses that are basically preparatory to the Estonian language proficiency test. Currently, the providers of Estonian language courses are not supervised on the private market, so learners do not know whether the training they choose actually helps to acquire the official language. We know cases where people have spent their time and money to attend Estonian language courses, but their language skills have not improved significantly since then. This has been the case in the language inspectorate's practice. They have found that a person attends courses, after a year he or she will be tested for language skills and remain the same. It has also been established that there are also Estonian language courses where trainers themselves do not speak Estonian at the C1 level. As a result, it is also planned to introduce a requirement for the Estonian language trainer, which seems elementary in itself, but in practice it has become clear that there is a need for it. After this change has been implemented, the trainer must also record the objective of his/her courses according to language proficiency levels, i.e. the trainer must state the expected level of language proficiency of the learners after the course has been completed. The reason why Estonian language courses go under a stricter procedure under this draft as one of the priority areas is, on the one hand, that improving Estonian language skills is certainly an important national priority. On the other hand, the training of the Estonian language is quite largely funded by the public sector. The language learning programme existed in the previous period of euro money and the new programme for the next period is already being prepared by the Ministry of Education. The law also provides for compensation for those who perform the citizenship sex. So it is also a question of the targeted use of public money. The state is currently compensating for coursework costs or ordering courses for which we cannot be sure that their quality is decent. The Language Inspectorate will have additional powers to carry out this verification and will also receive the necessary additional funding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U265	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U266	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Four years ago, in 2010, the National Audit Office said that the state lacks an overview of the money spent on further training. Has anything changed in four years, or is the question at the same level?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U267	The National Audit Office has indeed criticised the management of national continuing training. This criticism has certainly been taken into account in the drafting of this draft. We will take the requirement, even if appropriate, to publish information, which will be introduced so that this system is transparent, so that people can understand what kind of training is offered. It's on the one hand. On the other hand, the opinions of the National Audit Office are taken into account when preparing a new adult education programme. At the moment, this work in the Ministry of Education has reached the end of the line.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U268	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U269	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The Adult Education Act is certainly very much needed as a whole new package, because it contains a number of provisions that have long been expected. But I have a fundamental question about training licences, which you have also touched on in your speech. On the one hand, in the case of training licences, we will loosen the belt a bit, but on the other, we will follow the principle that there is a need to strengthen regulation in some areas. As a minister, how do you see how, and to what extent, we can make the market more systematic in continuing training for school teachers and kindergarten teachers, for example? How can we ensure that the teacher actually benefits from refresher courses in everyday school?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U270	Thank you. I would not say that regulations are being relaxed. Regulation will be made more reasonable. Getting a training licence meant a burden on both applicants and the ministry, and I would not say that this would have ensured a high level of quality. We can say that it was essentially a hugely pointless extra burden. However, in the future, if there is no authorisation obligation, i.e. the strictest form of registration, public control and the understanding of the state, which is still taking place, should improve. This is due to the obligation to register curricula, the obligation arises to reflect on their website what is done, who does and what objectives are being pursued. This will enable them to be dealt with on a more solid basis in specific cases where there are complaints. This is particularly necessary when training is provided with public resources, such as training for school teachers and kindergarten teachers. Of course, the relevant institutions of the Ministry of Education, when we talk about teachers, and the local authorities when we talk about kindergarten teachers as subscribers, must ensure that the courses are of the required quality. As far as teachers are concerned more specifically, as you know very well, we have taken the position in Estonia that the basic management of teacher training could be assumed primarily by the University of Tartu and the University of Tallinn, which are public universities and the proper quality of their work is guaranteed even without having a specific permit to carry out any training.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U271	Thank you. Please, Liisa-Ly Pakosta!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U272	Thank you. Thank you very much for this presentation. I have two questions about the impact analysis, which is in the draft on pages 42 and 43. In one case, it has been argued that since the length of further training is usually 40 to 50 academic hours, the impact of the draft on holidays is not extensive. At the same time, we are moving to an output-based evaluation of training, which is very correct. But do we really think that output-based evaluation will result in training being only 40 hours long and that, in order to achieve any change in learner's level and skills, the training will not be longer? I can ask you the second question. On page 43, the impact of the draft on the budget of the Health Insurance Fund has been assessed, bearing in mind that although we are cancelling the age line, which is very correct, the number of students in primary school and upper secondary school does not increase. Why do you expect us to make changes, but they have no effect?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U273	I'll start with the last one. Indeed, in the case of health insurance, it makes sense that a person should always have access to primary or secondary education, regardless of his or her age. The current regime, where the existence of health insurance depends on the age of the learner, has certainly reduced the motivation for learning, and this change could increase it. But on the other hand, when we look at who we learn in adult schools, we see that there are 300 people aged 21 and older in comprehensive school and 1400 in upper secondary school. Altogether, 1,700 students. If we compare it with the overall number of clients of the health insurance fund and the budget resources of the health insurance fund, it is clear that the impact on the health insurance fund's budget is really close to zero. So, in my opinion, this impact has been assessed quite correctly. This does not mean that the impact on students and their motivation in the educational sense is small. I think for them this impact is significant and positive. As far as the length of training is concerned, neither the output basis of the assessment automatically means that the courses will be longer. Outputs can be ambitious and less ambitious. Hopefully, the transition to an output-based curriculum will make their goals and content more adequate: they will not be allowed to achieve something that can actually be achieved within 300 to 400 hours. Whether this will lead to longer training or simply reduce the ambition of curricula and the degree of willingness of students to undergo longer refresher training, I cannot say that. The National Audit Office has pointed out that indeed a large number of further training courses will not last a week, and also expressed the opinion that no qualitative leap in skills will be achieved during this period, which is likely to be achieved. Whether the reason for the shortness of the courses is that there is a great deal to be achieved during this week, which is not actually achieved, or whether adult people who go to full-time work do not have more time to participate in further training, I do not know. Well, there are examples of one and the other. But I don't think that just because of this change in course length will change significantly.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U274	Thank you. Please, Jaak Aaviksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U275	Good minister! The education strategy adopted a little less than a year ago provided for the drafting of a new Education Code. The Education Act is perhaps the only law in the Republic of Estonia that has been passed before the Constitution becomes effective, i.e. even earlier than the Adult Education Act. This new educational code is conceptually different according to this strategy. I'll ask you two questions. First of all, how does the Adult Education Act, which in itself is education-centric rather than educational, relate to the concept of the new Education Code? Secondly, what is the state of development of the Education Code and how good is the prospect that the whole area of education will be moved from a pre-constitutional basis to a modern basis?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U276	As far as the Education Code is concerned, the intention to develop is, I do not exactly remember, sent out in May or June and also the comments returned. On this basis, the Education Code is being further developed. The next deadline should be in April or May then a more meaningful concept by specific drafts should exist. I agree with you that this is one of the most important changes in education law that have been made since regaining independence. In my opinion, this is one of the main milestones for the next Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu, towards which their working time will be fulfilled for quite several years. The Adult Education Act is not an adult education institution law and therefore it fits within the framework of the development of the Education Code. To what extent the specific provisions relate to the education code being developed, I cannot say at this point. But as a concept, it is certainly more in line with the Education Code than many other laws currently in force.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U277	Valeri Korb, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U278	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I come back to the money that the state spends to ensure that further training exists in the country. Are you ready to tell me how much money the country is channeling there?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U279	Unfortunately, I can't tell you by heart, but I'd be happy to specify these numbers later. However, expenditure for the previous period is available to everyone and can be found online on the website of the Ministry of Education. The previous adult education development plan ended in 2013, its final report has been approved by the government. The volume of training offered, the number of students involved and the amounts spent are quite accurate. And, as I said, there will be a new programme of adult education for the next period of the euro. I can't tell you the volume by heart, but I'd be happy to send you these figures in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U280	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U281	Thank you. I have a question about § 17. It says here that in certain cases the state may order the provision of further training. Are you talking about preventive training or the need to train someone to work in a particular workplace? If you look at the National Audit Office's assessments, for example, it has been pointed out as one of the complaints that we are responding to the consequences, but we could discuss the concept of continuing training from time to time. When preparing draft 798, was there a discussion in the ministry that, in some cases, for example, when a larger company is expected to fail in a region, people could be trained proactively?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U282	There is another draft, the draft professional law, which has just passed the second reading and which establishes a coordination system for skills development. To this is referred to in § 17 (1) of the draft, the State can decide on the presentation of a training order based on the surveys and forecasts of the labour demand. The reference is the same system of coordination for skills development. We really want to reach a mapping of training orders based on "preventive sectors," so that this can be an input to the planning of public spending and further training, on the one hand, but certainly also to the planning of graduate training in both universities and vocational schools on the other. This is precisely what is foreseen here that the state should, of course, react in advance, not afterwards. This responsible job is on the payroll of the unemployment fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U283	Thank you. Please, Liisa-Ly Pakosta, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U284	Thank you. § 18 refers to national and administrative supervision and the draft explanatory memorandum on page 21 presents the content of this provision. Here is such an interesting wording that the Ministry of Education and Research carries out national or administrative supervision in cases where further training is based on an increased or significant risk and other law enforcement or economic governance bodies are not competent to counter this threat. Perhaps you could explain a little more about the danger that one training may pose. Is this wording still the most successful?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U285	I'm not a lawyer, so maybe I'm misinterpreting it a little bit. But let's take kindergartens, for example. Kindergartens are all municipally owned and are basically the responsibility of the local government. On the other hand, if some requirements, such as health protection requirements or labour law requirements, or issues of non-compliance with the curriculum of activities, are violated in pre-school children's institutions, then the Ministry of Education and Research, Labour Inspectorate or other bodies will certainly intervene. For example, the Ministry of Education has supervised kindergartens, although kindergartens are not ours. Obviously, it is meant here that, although a continuing education institution is, as a rule, a private body in which the State does not have a direct obligation to monitor what is done there at exactly every moment, but the general requirements must be met. This control competence is meant for cases where we are addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U286	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much. I would like a co-presentation by Tiina Lokk-Tramberg, Member of the Cultural Committee of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U287	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very much. The Cultural Commission discussed the draft Adult Education Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 798 at its meeting on 8 December. The draft was presented by Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Education and Science, and Terje Haidak, Head of the Adult Education Department, who gave an overview of how to change the continuing training system. A distinction shall be made between training providers on the basis of authorisation and notification. A single system of regulation will be set up: regardless of the form of ownership of the training provider, it must meet certain conditions for the benefit of the State to be extended to its trainers, such as reimbursement of income tax on training costs. The rules for granting study leave shall be specified, the responsibility and supervision of the training institution shall be laid down. The impact of the proposal should be such that in the future the national education information system will have a more accurate overview of training providers. And if they are adequately monitored, the quality of training should also improve. Several changes concern requirements for providers of the Estonian language course and the right of the Language Inspectorate to supervise the quality of the Estonian language course. During the debate, it was clarified that the law applies to a large extent to continuing adult education. General provisions refer to the level of education for adults only in order to create a general framework for adult education. Basically, adult education is regulated in each relevant Level Education Act. The terms 'further training' and 'further training' were discussed. According to the explanations, the law regulates, in particular, the provision of training, so it is more appropriate to use the training-centred term 'additional training' rather than the learner-centred term 'additional training'. It was clarified that the requirement for a licence for trainers offering Estonian language courses will enter into force on 30 June 2016, the year after the entry into force of the Act. This is because the current range of persons offering language courses is very diverse and a sufficient transitional period is necessary for the harmonised requirement to enter into force. It was decided to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda by 17 December 2014 and that Tiina Lokk-Tramberg be appointed rapporteur, as well as to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 6 January 2015. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U288	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Do you want to open negotiations? I'm opening negotiations. Please contact Riigikogu speech chair Representative of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union Liisa-Ly Pakosta!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U289	Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U290	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U291	Ladies and gentlemen, We have before us a good and necessary law, a draft law on adult education. It's been done for a long time. As has already been said several times, for two years, even a separate group has been working together and has considered the issues of adult education more widely. In this sense, I was even slightly sorry that the Minister introduced this draft in the legal side, but missed the opportunity to explain why adult education in Estonia is a fundamental issue. I'll bring these concerns out myself, I believe they're common to all of us. According to the latest census, we have 40,000 people among the people aged 20 to 34 who have only basic education. I repeat: there are 40,000 young people in the 20 to 34 age group who have only basic education. A third of Estonians have no professional education at all, i.e. they have not studied any specialty in any educational institution. Among them are a third more men than women. This sad statistic reminds me of a statement from Mati Heidmetsa. Two years ago, he pointed out in the Estonian Human Development Report that the formation of the so-called educational Lumpen, i.e. the constant increase in the number of people who do not have any professional education, either with or without comprehensive school education, is the biggest obstacle to the progress of the Estonian labour market and the economy. Without any eulogy, one in five boys in essence will either be confined to basic education or will disappear from the basic education system. Each year, depending on the year, the figures are slightly different from the figures of 300-350 boys and girls who disappear from primary school and we do not really know what happens to them. Therefore, the whole Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance is of the opinion that much more attention must be paid to the issues that this law regulates, i.e. how to attract as many people as possible to further adult learning. But it's only one side of the medal. There is a very serious need to address the issue of motivation and interest in education even before such a coercive situation is reached. But in order not to get the wrong signal out of here, I stress that it is extremely important to stress the attitude of the state that we are not only talking about young people or older people who have only basic education or are not completing any other, higher-level education in adult education. We are also talking about higher education, master's degree, doctorate people who should train themselves further in the labour market. Learning is a lifelong process. And here we come to these questions, which were also discussed in the Committee on Culture. This draft law speaks of trainers with greater emphasis and therefore has such a title. However, a more serious solution would be a comprehensive education code based on the education strategy adopted, as well as on the views and interests of the learner. We now have all the laws governing education based on the form of the educational institution, and this law happens to be based on the age of the learner. If we look around, it doesn't really matter if there's a person who's passed 18 years of age or if he's one of the 400 or so minors we have at the unemployment fund on account of either falling out of primary school or graduate, but he hasn't continued his studies for the next level of education. Let us be honest, about 400 minors at the unemployment fund are not a mark of honour on the chest of the Republic of Estonia. If we look at what can be done better on the opposition side, we will probably not have a lot of proposals when we dissect this bill by individual sections. It's a relatively good bill and well prepared. Congratulations to the Ministry of Education and Research, who prepared the draft! However, we are not satisfied with the fact that the education strategy adopted and the creation of a more comprehensive education space foreseen in it are essentially being blocked. We very much hope that all the questions that will arise in future education laws will be looked at, first and foremost, from the learner's point of view as well as from how the whole educational space will be arranged in such a way that, without administrative coercion and also special flattery, people will be willing and willing to continue learning and, if necessary, to re-learn. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U292	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, I don't see any more calls, so we'll close the negotiations. The lead committee has proposed unambiguously to close the first reading of draft 798. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at 5.15 p.m. on 6 January 2015. The first reading is closed and the tenth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U293	We will move on to the 11th item, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act and the Private Schools Act, which was initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister of Education and Science Jevgeni Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U294	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! I will introduce you to the draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act and the Private School Act, which has been initiated by the Government of the Republic. The draft can be broadly divided into three parts. Firstly, there are some more technical points. For example, according to practice, the law provides that direct contracts are concluded between the Ministry of Education and private schools to cover the costs of the labour costs of private school teachers and some other component of the education allowance. The implementation of one point in the programme of action of the Government of the Republic can be called a more fundamental change. This will make the use of education support more flexible in local governments. In particular, it is proposed to allow a component of the investment component or education support which could be used for investment in school infrastructure, where possible and at the request of the local government and the school, to finance the support specialist service or to use these resources to cover other general education costs. Of course, this does not solve all the problems associated with the financing of support professionals. Support specialists are primarily schoolkeepers, in most cases to finance the local government; this service is for them to organise. The state has provided the necessary support so that schools can also order this service from the state Rajasidja centres that started operations in September of this year, but funding remains on the local government. It is also proposed to add two additional funding components in the framework of education support, one relating to the availability of regional upper secondary school education and the other to the learning of Estonian language. The first of these concerns municipalities where the Estonian and Russian upper secondary schools are joined. Due to the decrease in the number of students in so many cities, this issue has either risen or is rising, and it is generally reasonable for Estonian and Russian children to study together. According to feedback from such schools, they need additional support to provide Russian-speaking students with either additional courses or the necessary support for Estonian language learning. We have planned a 10% increase in the upper secondary school teacher component or coefficient in the municipalities where these upper secondary schools are combined. As there are few such municipalities, the overall impact is not very high, with memory estimated at around EUR 60000. The second additional component is intended for municipalities in whose territory one upper secondary school is located, one upper secondary school part. This means that the upper secondary school network in the municipality has been organised as much as it has been able to do, i.e. there is no more than one upper secondary school in the municipality, the next step would be to give up upper secondary school and the number of students will be between 50 and 200. It is understandable that the concentration of upper secondary school education in county centres is quite inevitable because of the decline in the number of students, especially upper secondary school students, and this process is taking place in itself. The role of the state in this process is reflected in the creation and creation of state secondary schools in the county centres. On the other hand, it will certainly take time to set up state secondary schools. The aim is to have a state secondary school in each county centre by 2020. At the same time, issues relating to the provision of upper secondary school education, the provision of quality education, including the issue of hiring teachers, are already topical and problematic in many smaller upper secondary schools. In this context, it is reasonable to offer smaller municipalities where the upper secondary school network has been organised as much as it has been managed, but where the number of students has not fallen below the absolute critical limit, i.e. less than 50 students, a little extra support so that they can provide upper secondary school education better, especially for as long as state secondary schools are established. Although I have to admit that many upper secondary schools outside county centres will probably continue after that, especially in those municipalities where there are more than 50 kilometres to the county centre. There are a few of these in Estonia, and they also want to receive upper secondary school education. That's all about the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U295	Thank you, Minister. You have a lot of questions, too. Liisa-Ly Pakosta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U296	Thank you very much. When you started as a minister, you said that one of the things you wish to bring to the Riigikogu is the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, I dare say, even the amendments to the notorious § 82. You've confirmed several more times that they're coming, and now they're in front of us. Let us be honest, there is only one substantive change here, it is § 82 (3). Paragraph 82 61 is such that the State may pay the subsidy. Here, the explanatory statement and the reality you described are already separated. The state can pay a lot of things. So where's the rest of it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U297	Thank you. In consultation with the various parties, including the associations of local governments and also the political forces represented in the Riigikogu, I became convinced that during the Riigikogu's composition it would be possible to spend another six months in order to process the full amount of § 82 of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, and in the end it would probably not have worked out. Therefore, we have brought a realistic draft to the Riigikogu, which can be processed during the parliamentary term, and the content of this infamous section will remain entirely at the discretion of the next Riigikogu. There is another substantive reason. Indeed, since the education grant for the following year has been essentially prepared in the Ministry and negotiated with local authorities as schoolteachers, the adoption of this law before the elections would not give anything to anyone. And on the other hand, as I said, I have come to believe that this is not possible right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U298	Margus Hanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U299	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! The Mayor of Tartu Urmas Klaas has expressed the view that paying salaries from investment support to support specialists will not solve this problem. For example, the city of Tartu has received investment support of EUR 230000 this year, but the budget for next year is already limited to EUR 700000 for the salaries of support specialists. He has sent a letter to the Ministry proposing that support specialists be equalized with teachers so that their salaries should be paid to municipalities through public support. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U300	As I said in my speech, this will certainly not solve the whole issue of funding support professionals. According to memory, do not exactly quote me that Estonian local governments spend a total of 20 million euros on the service of support specialists mentioned in subsection 37 (2) of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. In doing so, the salaries of most support professionals are close to around EUR 500. Support specialists are heavily underpaid and, in order to raise their salaries to the level of teachers' salaries, as the Pathfinder Centres do, the cost of publicly hired support specialists to the state budget would be in the order of EUR 40 million. During the current six months, it has not been found to be EUR 40 million for the state to pay off the support specialist service. It can no longer be said that the Riigikogu could find it in next year's budget, because the budget has been adopted. I think that whether the state could pay the support specialists as well as the teachers' salary is a fundamental issue that can certainly be discussed, but it must be borne in mind that the so-called price cap is in the order of EUR 40 million. We can argue whether it would be reasonable to put a few million in one way or the other in public funding for support specialists, but essentially this problem does not solve if we are to bear in mind the proportion that the investment component is EUR 2.6 million. If the city of Tartu alone spends on support specialists, I do not remember exactly how much, I think 700000, you will understand by its proportion that it does not actually save anything. So I say in response that, according to this draft, some municipalities with a certain degree of flexibility in the use of investment aid can, to some extent, help to pay for the service of support specialists. However, the ambition of this draft is certainly not fully resolved, as it cannot be done within the limits of the available financial resources. This will require a significantly higher amount of money, which the Ministry of Education does not currently have.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U301	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U302	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. You offer money, support to municipalities and cities who hold one upper secondary school in their administrative territory. I understand your point. But what is your message to the larger cities of Tallinn, Narva, Pärnu, Kohtla-Järve, which currently has more than one upper secondary school on its territory? We take Kohtla-Järve, in 2018 we can create a state secondary school and then start working with one upper secondary school. What to do three years before that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U303	Thank you. In larger cities, it is certainly possible to restructure the upper secondary school network or the school network at all much more widely, without reducing the quality or availability of education, often by improving it. There's no way in smaller places. If we take Vändra, for example, where there is one upper secondary school, their next option is to shut down the upper secondary school. The county centre in Pärnu is 60 km from there. The situation in Kohtla-Järve is very different. There are several upper secondary schools, the county centre is also quite close. So Kohtla-Järve can organise the school network, for example by combining upper secondary schools, even before the establishment of the state secondary school. I don't know the bill for Kohtla-Järve, but let's take Narva. If there are 700 gymnastics and seven gymnasiums in Narva, I think this is not the optimal way to provide upper secondary school education. Let's take Tallinn. There are upper secondary schools in Tallinn where there are 35 and more students in the class, and there are upper secondary schools where there are 100 students in total for the entire upper secondary school level. This is the message that small places have their limits in optimising the school network. At one point, they're gonna get to the border. As a result, we have also envisaged higher coefficients for paying teachers' salaries outside county centres, because the classes are inevitably smaller there than in larger cities. In larger cities, it is really possible to optimise activities with available resources. However, the calculated bounty rate for upper secondary school and basic school students will be equal in the following year, which means that the upper secondary school student's bounty rate has been increased. And in a situation where the calculated standard of performance of the class is different, this means that upper secondary school may begin to provide even better upper secondary school education.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U304	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U305	Thank you. Honourable waitress! The question is about Article 1 (4) of the same bill, which you have just talked about. In your report, you referred to the fact that additional support was provided until the state secondary school network was organised, and precisely for those counties where this has not yet been done, i.e. the state secondary school has not been set up. That's what the explanatory memorandum says, and that's what you said in the report, but if I read this point in this bill, there's no such limit. As we know, we already have a state secondary school in several counties. Shouldn't what you're talking about here be stated in this section? Otherwise, there will be a situation where you are moving towards two opposite goals at the same time, you want to create state secondary schools and organise a network, while at the same time encouraging that these small upper secondary schools are still being held near the state secondary school.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U306	Thank you. This proposal would in principle mean that we would switch to school-based funding, where it would be necessary to set out precisely which local authorities will receive support and which will not. However, in terms of law, we have described these criteria in such a way that the principle of equal treatment of local authorities has been respected. As regards this objection, which was also raised in the Committee on Culture, that, despite the existence of a state secondary school for example, it is still decided to keep the upper secondary school section, I would point out that the total amount of the additional component of this grant is around EUR 300000 of the total education allowance of several hundred million. If we look at the distribution of this support between municipalities, it essentially means a few thousand euros of extra money for the local governments where this upper secondary school is. So this is definitely not the kind of question that would be decisive. Take, for example, municipalities located 10 kilometres from the state gymnasium, such as West Nigula and Taebla. It is certainly not up to Taebla to maintain upper secondary school according to whether or not they have an additional allowance. It is still a matter of longer-term trends, the number of students and the existence of state secondary schools. The state gymnasium is, in this sense, advantageous to the students and local governments of the local government, so that they do not have to pay an operating grant or put anything with them, and the journey is also compensated. The creation of state secondary schools is certainly a much stronger incentive for the organisation of the school network than this additional support. However, this may be necessary in some smaller municipalities, where there is a really long way to the state gymnasium.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U307	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U308	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I ask about the amendment of § 22 (2) of the Private Schools Act. Can it be clearly and clearly stated that the local government no longer has anything to do with private schools due to the Supreme Court's ruling and that they do not have to finance private schools in one way or another? And if they do not have to do so, I ask which sources the private school will receive money from, for example, the next January 1st, 2015. How will they be financed, and what amounts will be allocated to private schools in the state budget next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U309	Thank you. This point does not concern the judgment of the Supreme Court and its effects on the financing of private schools. This concerns the support that the Ministry of Education already allocates to private schools for teacher's labour costs, further training, educational facilities, student home places, school lunches and investments. According to the current law, the municipality must add the other half to the operating grant. This provision of the law continues to apply. The Supreme Court has found that it is an unconstitutional situation where this provision has been introduced without allocating the necessary funds to the local government. The Supreme Court has not declared this provision unconstitutional. So this provision will continue to apply, which means that local governments will continue to be obliged to pay operating grants as long as the Riigikogu has not decided otherwise. It is understandable, however, that in the light of this decision, the State must ex post compensate the local authorities for the costs they have incurred. On the basis of the judgment, we have prepared and planned nearly EUR 7 million in the budget for next year to do so. In parallel, the Committee on Culture is actively discussing ways to reform the funding scheme or system of private schools. The Ministry of Education is prepared to participate actively in these discussions in order to find the necessary solution. This draft does not, however, concern the judgment of the Supreme Court or the result thereof.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U310	Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U311	Thank you. Good minister! On the one hand, I am very pleased that this bill has reached this hall. This will make it possible to make funding more flexible and to finance the support staff that we have long wanted to do. On the other hand, it also allows the small upper secondary schools that we have in rural areas to continue their activities. However, it is a little sad that the overall solution has still been pushed forward, waiting for its time. It is clear that during this membership we will no longer be able to deal with the whole solution. Can you predict what this time perspective could be, when we could see a new holistic concept of funding in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U312	If the next Riigikogu wishes to continue with the current financing model, which will be valid next year as decided by the government, then in order to legitimise the existing model, the Ministry of Education is prepared to submit the text of the necessary draft, even tomorrow. If the next Riigikogu decides that the current financing system needs to be reviewed, I expect it will take quite a while. So the perspective of time depends on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U313	Liisa-Ly Pakosta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U314	Thank you. However, this Article 82 is on our desk and gives some very clear signals about the vision of the current coalition. What is your message, for example, to the teachers of the city of Tartu, where the school network has been reorganized, or to the teachers of schools in Tallinn, for example, whose bounty share has been somewhat reduced due to the reform? And what is your message to the other municipalities? We have all received a letter from Priit Kärsna, a parish elder in Vigala, where he gives examples. For example, there are 62 students in the bellery sector instead of 61, and support has increased by 15% in 2014. At the same time, the number of students in Aegviidu has increased from 63 to 64, but the support has already increased by 29%, i.e. almost EUR 33000. There are huge changes within the financing model, the change we are discussing here is microscopic alongside them. What's your message?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U315	Thank you. What is the logic, justification and content of the changes that are taking place, I am prepared to explain to you on a case-by-case basis. I would also recommend that you address Jaak Aaviksoo, former Minister of Education, who is also kindly prepared to explain. The reason is very simple: next year the components of funding, which lasted only the last four months of the year, are valid for the whole year. It was the decision of the previous government to do this. That is why we are seeing quite large changes in the percentage of individual local authorities. Some really have an increase of 15%, 20% or 30%, because this year's so-called new aid rate for the last four months, the coefficient will apply for the whole of next year. It should also be noted that in the case of smaller municipalities, the number of pupils with special educational needs has a significant impact on the rate of funding. However, as the total number is small, the arrival or departure from the municipality of five or six children with special educational needs may affect this budget by 10 to 20%. If you want information about why this support increased by so many percent in one local government and so many percent in the other, in each particular case the officials of the Ministry of Education are kindly prepared to comment and explain why things have gone like this. As far as the message is concerned, the minimum wage of teachers will increase by 12.5% or 100 euros next year, while wages are projected to increase by 6% on average in Estonia. If we look at the salaries of other public sector workers, the rise in teachers' salaries is significant: next year the minimum rate will be EUR 900 and the estimated average will be EUR 1080. The volume of education support in Tallinn is growing quite strongly in Tartu. In addition to Tartu, four other cities can be mentioned: Tartu, Pärnu, Võru and Jõhvi. Their financial situation will be improved further because, from September, all of them will be employed by the state gymnasium. At the same time, the upper secondary school student bounty that has been allocated to them in the past remains. The situation of teachers' salaries certainly cannot satisfy us to the end. We have set the goal that the teacher's average salary could be 120% of the Estonian average, i.e. the salary of a highly educated specialist. We will not reach this next year, but we should finally get back to the fact that the teacher's salary is above the average salary in Estonia. I hope that this will be a result that can still be satisfied this year, looking at the general economic trends. Hopefully, next year, we will be able to increase the financial resources needed to make teachers' salaries even more competitive.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U316	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U317	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I got the feeling a little over a year ago that there was another minister here who sat quite close to me, and the story is exactly the same. The only question remains as to why the Social Democrats did some night sessions in the meantime, fought against the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, and talked about how the teachers' minimum wage would rise only because the higher grades would be distributed to the subjects, that the teachers' salary increase would not really come from the extra money, but from the fact that the teachers' methic money would be distributed to the teachers. You also had a financing model under very strong criticism. Today you're saying that what you're gonna do is you're gonna see that the previous government confirmed it. Let me remind you, there's been a new minister for quite some time now. In principle, it is not impossible to develop a new model either. My question is, what have you been doing these months?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U318	Thank you very much. It is certainly possible to develop a new model. But I'm going to repeat in the second key what I said. During these months, meeting with the various parties and trying to find a compromise, I became more convinced that it would not be possible to achieve this in the remainder of its membership. I wish the next Minister for Education every success in achieving this compromise. As far as teachers' salaries are concerned, the increase in the minimum wage for next year will exceed 889 euros for the current teacher-method, so it is certainly not possible to say that the salaries of the Methodists will be distributed downwards. If we look at the fact that education support does not really grow by 12.5% in all municipalities, for example, in some municipalities it is smaller, in others it is considerably higher, then there is a certain logic here. For example, we have larger cities where it is possible to optimize the school network, where it has not been done, but I have brought to Narva, for example, 700 upper secondary schools and seven upper secondary schools. After all, the extra burden of teachers' salaries resulting from this situation is the decision of the local government. If seven upper secondary schools are to be run, the municipality must pay an extra salary. It is understandable that the State operates a certain model of support. It can be argued whether this model is optimal, best, etc., but I believe that if local authorities wish to make different choices, they can do so if they find a financial cover for it. Now, if we looked at the other way around and didn't want to go completely absurd, but speaking of just as a principle, if some local government suddenly decided to make two more schools, just make two more schools, then we wouldn't think that the state would have to pay for these schools. It's an optimism somewhere. I am not saying that this optimism is finally found, certainly not, there are several components in this model that have failed to reach an agreement. For me, this is particularly true of the smallest schools in which the movement of a student to one place or another may mean a rather drastic change in educational support, which is not proportional. However, this six months have not been able to reach an agreement here. Given that we operated in the framework of the adopted state budget strategy, according to which no additional money was actually available for any change, this agreement could not be reached.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U319	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U320	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, My question relates to § 1 point 2: The municipalities have received a grant from the state budget to cover the costs of investments, which can be used for the labour costs of support specialists. There are a lot of questions. You are well aware that in order to receive investment money from the state budget, the municipality must make an application, state the reasons.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U321	No, you don't.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U322	What do you mean, you don't have to? There must also be a development plan. Otherwise you can't do one or the other, this formality must be fulfilled. That's another thing. If the municipality uses investment money in this way for labour costs, it will have a problem. First of all, for the second time, he can no longer claim money for this purpose. Secondly, if he doesn't get double money for the second period, where does he take money to support support specialists?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U323	Thank you. You've confused something. Investment support is a component of education support paid annually to all schoolchildren, by memory of 57 or 59 euros per student. It comes into the budget of each municipality and can then be used to cover the costs of general education investments in the school. Figuratively speaking, this money can paint a wall. Unfortunately, after the investment support component has been reduced compared to the initial one, there is little that can be done in very many local governments, apart from painting the wall with this money. So this is not the money that must be applied for separately according to some investment plans. That's a little different.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U324	Jaak Aaviksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U325	Thank you. Good minister! I don't know what to say, meat or fish. On the one hand, it is a pleasure that this reform is not quite turned upside down, but on the other, it is not possible to understand what these proposals under the label of increasing flexibility are doing well. I understand from this populist component that there is pressure and will be given in. But 360000 Russian-speaking schools and small upper secondary schools, and support staff, this increases responsibility and ambiguity and unprotected expectations of support specialists, prolongs the agony of schools and punishes those who have made reforms. Why did you really do something like that? If it's done, it's done!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U326	Thank you. As far as support specialists are concerned, I do not really agree that this is somehow spreading responsibility. As I said, when we look at these orders of magnitude, the principal responsibility remains with the schoolkeeper. On the other hand, I consider investment aid to be a component that has lost its substance in many municipalities. Therefore, since the provision under discussion states that this allowance may be used to cover the labour costs of support specialists and the other costs referred to in this paragraph, the investment aid could, in essence, be considered as a reserve for education support. It is possible to place some of it in educational facilities, if there is such a desire in one year, and if in the second year there is a lack of support services, this money can be put on them. So this increases the flexibility that local authorities have wanted to have in school. I don't see anything wrong with that. Investment grants, so-called physical maintenance of schools, as well as funding for support professionals are still the responsibility of the schoolkeeper. Indeed, the broader question is whether such a definition makes sense in terms of the 'educational objective'. If we are talking about inclusive education and that children with special needs can be more involved in conventional classes, in teaching with everyone else, it may also make sense for the state to think about taking greater responsibility for funding support professionals. But, as I said, it would mean a much greater financial resource than it is possible to put into it now. As far as smaller schools are concerned, I again do not want to accept that this amendment will prolong their agony. Schools are different. There are those that are very close to the county centres and other schools, and there has indeed been, or is becoming, an understanding that it is unreasonable to have a upper secondary school degree. On the other hand, I think it is important for me to try to understand the situation in the municipalities where there are 50, 60 or more kilometres to the next gymnasium, take Lihula for example, take Vändra, Avinurme or Orissaare. It is quite difficult for the country to say that what is there, let the children get on the bus every morning and drive 70 kilometres to school and then return again. In this context, I think that state support for upper secondary school education in these schools is reasonable and justified in every way. Of course, if there are a total of 30 students, i.e. less than 10 children in each class, I have not yet met a person who would say that this is a sustainable upper secondary school and it needs to be maintained. There's a line coming up somewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U327	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U328	In fact, you are currently cheating on local governments because this money was intended for them, they paid back the loan, for example, and, summing up, the municipality had a pretty large amount of money. Then we could continue to think about what could still be paid to support specialists. For me, however, the question is why you are adopting a deficit budget, which is 7 million private schools to fund at most half of the money. Do you have any accounting for how much money you really need a year? That money will be needed even after you've finished ruling.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U329	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. It is, of course, a separate story to allow support specialists to be paid for investments. If you claim that the investment money was some trivial money for which the wall could be taken, it was actually a specific money that the local government was counting on and on which, for example, it took a loan to pay back this component in the long term.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U330	It can still be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U331	Just a minute, Minister! Please, ask, stop the question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U332	Thank you. This change, which allows investment support to be used more flexibly to cover other costs, does not make anyone worse. Indeed, those specific municipalities that have so far used up their investment aid or planned to repay loans through it, for example, do not benefit from this provision. They don't have free money to use it for support professionals. True, that's true. On the other hand, those who have this opportunity will gain more flexibility. Once again, I would stress that this provision does not really solve the problem of financing support professionals. As far as the deficit budget is concerned, I didn't quite understand the figures you're operating on. You said the money was less than half of something. The State actually compensates local authorities for the costs they incur for private schools. Not within the limit, not at the maximum rate, but what local authorities have actually paid to private schools in accordance with the agreements, and this amount should be in the order of 6 million per year. When we say that we are compensating for the costs incurred on the basis of judgments, and indeed it turns out that the execution of the judgments that have entered into force next year will require a higher amount than EUR 7 million, the Ministry of Finance, in cooperation with the Ministry of Education, has taken this opportunity into account. As in this case, the government finds the necessary means to comply with these judgments, because the judgments are, of course, mandatory for the Government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U333	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U334	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! Since you mentioned the reorganisation of the school network in relation to Narva, I also have a question on this issue. Yeah, seven gymnasiums are a lot for Narva, should be three, maybe four. However, all the proposals made by the city of Narva receive a strong position in response: there must be a single upper secondary school and that is it. But we don't live in Chicago in the '30s, your name isn't Al Capone, and we're not your serfs. The question is, when will you and the Ministry of Education start discussing this network, our needs, our wishes reasonably with the city that is your partner in the field of education? When will it end in command like in Soviet times, to one high school and all?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U335	Thank you very much. You're misinformed. Just today, I sent my reply to the Chairman of the Narva City Council concerning the takeover of the Narva Estonian Gymnasium into the state's ownership. We expect the city of Narva to develop a comprehensive school network, which, I understand, is entering the final stage. For your information, in the first days of April, I met with the mayor of Narva and we talked about the possibility of creating two state secondary schools in Narva, in case the city could be agreed on a general reorganisation of the school network. So I have done everything in my power to enable the state to invest significantly in the reconstruction of general education schools in the city of Narva. Now it is really up to the Narva city authorities to decide on a general reorganisation plan for the school network so that we can move on from there.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U336	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U337	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, It is good that we have been able to clarify what a rational investment is, and that we are now talking about so-called 'carp money', which is like in general terms. However, this proposal is not good. Why? Because if the municipality goes this way, even once, to use the investment money to pay the salary, it actually means that it will not be able to go back in the future. My question, however, is different. What is your vision of how municipalities can manage in the field of support specialists and what and how will regional support specialists' centres deal with?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U338	Thank you. The centres already work from 1 September, there are 16 pieces of 15 counties plus the Narva centre. It offers the so-called 'first-level support service', the same as the one mentioned here. Smaller schools are offered it on preferential terms, all of them on a cost-based basis. Now, when it comes to how we manage in general, I have pointed out several times in my report that wages are indeed shamefully low. When you communicate with support specialists across Estonia, it is not much better than kindergarten teachers. And, of course, support specialists also feel like "second-class people" at school, because minimum rates for teachers' pay have been set and are considerably higher than the remuneration they receive. The other problem, however, is in smaller schools with fewer than 100 students. There must be a similar guarantee for this service, but it is not possible to give full-time mobility to support professionals, but there are not enough students to give full-time mobility. It is therefore difficult for these schools and municipalities to find support specialists. For example, if the municipality's school is located several decades away from the county centre and it is possible to give 0.2 loads to the support specialist, we can imagine what is paid for such a burden. Very many support professionals are not interested in such work, and it is difficult for the school to find such a specialist. In this case, it is possible to order this service on preferential terms from the Pathfinder Centre.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U339	Jaak Aaviksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U340	Thank you. In the case of financing municipal general education schools, I believe, and not only in my opinion, one central issue is that the proportion of teachers' pay in school costs is below 40%. He must have gotten a little up this year. I would ask more generally: could the proposed changes or the changes not introduced due to a lack of political support change this proportion? If not to the level in Finland, where this proportion is around 60%, at least 45% or 50%? Do you see the possibility of changing the cost structure in the changes to funding, because so much extra money just doesn't come from anywhere?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U341	Thank you. The fact that in Estonia too much general education money goes to heating houses and too little to what is really important from the point of view of education, that is to say, teachers' salaries, is true. We have more space for a student in many counties than people have at home. That's right. Given the decrease in the number of students, optimization of school space is, of course, an extremely important objective. As far as financing is concerned, let us say, the conditions for allocating education support, these alone, of course, do not make surface use optimal. In some places, they can do that, and it has a role to play, but it doesn't solve the problem alone. Let's take the simplest example. For example, the same Taebla that has already been mentioned today... Or we could take my own childhood school, Aseri High School, built for 700 students. There are now 100 students. It's a big house with three wings. The upper secondary school section was closed there, but it didn't reduce the heated area significantly, the house is still the same size. Therefore, in addition to the education support component, of course, we need to support schools or municipalities in their ability to rebuild their schools to make them optimal. And for that, as you well know, more than EUR 200 million of structural resources are also planned to build state secondary schools on the one hand and help local authorities to optimise the use of basic schools on the other. As a result of these changes, I would really like us to get to the point where at least half of this money will be paid by teachers.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U342	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U343	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! Thank God one question was solved in six months. I mean this Narva Estonian Gymnasium thing. But as far as everyone else is concerned... You're meeting with the mayor of Narva, while the City Council of Narva has formed a working group dealing with the reorganisation of the school network. There are councils, school representatives, public representatives. What a discussion there may be when people come back from the Ministry of Education with a message that only one upper secondary school can stay, i.e. the Estonian upper secondary school and another one on the whole city. There are those who think that there should be at least one upper secondary school in every part of town. Will you give such a message that you will only support if there are no more than two upper secondary schools, or will the city of Narva still have the right to think and defend its interests in the term?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U344	Thank you. In my meetings and contacts with the mayor, I have based myself on the assumption that in Narva city, it is the mayor who will decide. If that is not the case in Narva, then indeed, I am ready to meet other people as well, but so far I have not received an invitation. As regards the establishment of state secondary schools, as I answered the previous question, one of the logics of the creation of state secondary schools is that the use of space in the upper secondary school network becomes optimal. And if the city of Narva is able to secure the number of students needed for two state secondary schools and the optimal use of space, rather three upper secondary schools, because we have offered two upper secondary schools. If it can be shown that the three upper secondary schools can be completed in any way from the point of view of the use of space, which would mean about 1300 to 1400 upper secondary school students, then we are certainly prepared to discuss this. For example, in Tallinn we are also prepared to discuss the creation of several state secondary schools, because the number of students in Tallinn is sufficient. If there are not enough students, of course the opening of new schools is quite difficult. Well, optimization is inevitable. But I believe that when several representatives of Narva and representatives of other cities have studied examples of state secondary schools, for example in Viljandi, it is nice to see that it is actually possible to offer a very diverse education, a variety of educational choices, through different courses of study in a large secondary school, to create the uniqueness of study groups. So in unity it is possible to create diversity, just as there is the European Union's motto.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U345	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U346	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I was very excited by the repeated statement by Mr Stalnukhin about how the Ministry has been commanding the city of Narva during the year, that only one upper secondary school can stay there. The position of the Narva Department of the Social Democratic Party has, as we know, always been that there should be at least two pure state secondary schools in Narva and one full-cycle school in Narva Keeletelütseum. Narva certainly has the right to decide whether further municipal secondary schools can be created. Can you comment on who has given this high school command to the city of Narva during the year at the Ministry?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U347	Thank you. Yes, indeed, that is an important remark. After all, municipal upper secondary schools can be created and maintained. If you don't want to, you don't have to agree with the country, it's just an opportunity to get quite significant investment support. In our negotiations with Narva and Tallinn, we have based primarily on the need for a comprehensive school network plan to make these investments. So the question is not that you come and build a school and then we'll see what we do with the school network. Since there are clear efficiency criteria for optimising the use of euro money, we need to get a comprehensive picture of how the school network of a specific municipality will look after this investment, i.e. after the establishment of the state secondary school.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U348	Dear Mikhail Stalnukhin, do you have a procedural question or a reply? If there is a line, then we only have lines in the round of negotiations, not in the round of questions. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U349	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! The Minister has been repeatedly asked what message is being given. I have listened to you very carefully, and you have repeatedly highlighted the need to clean up the school network. You have talked about how the quality of education is better in a larger upper secondary school and said that in many cities such a proper reform has not been carried out. I therefore ask why, instead of § 82, paragraph 61, you did not offer, for example, that if there are 34 students in upper secondary school, there is an additional coefficient. In Finland, for example, it is 1.5. That's why the clearest message you can give to high school is to clean things up and make a beep, money comes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U350	Thank you. If you think it hasn't been considered, you're wrong. The problem is that the state grants support to the local government on the basis of the current model, based on the number of students in this municipality. The state cannot say in the distribution of education support that this money is now for this school and this money is for this school, and since the latter has better met the efficiency criteria, there are more students, they get more money. Indeed, in some municipalities, I am not going to name names, there are schools in which there are very many students in the class, and there are also schools in which there are very few students in the class. The directors of these so-called high school high schools say that their money has been taken away and given to support other schools. They should be doing very well because they have big classes, but they actually do just as well as all the rest of the city's schools, because their so-called accounting money is being used somewhere else. But this is the model that we support the schoolmaster, and the schoolkeeper decides how the money is distributed. The alternative is that since Estonia is not too big, we will make a straight budget for each school, we will nationalise all schools. It can be discussed if this is the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U351	Minister, thank you for your presentation and your answers. No further questions. I now ask for a presentation by Paul-Eerik Rummo, Member of the Cultural Commission of the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U352	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen! This draft was on the agenda of the Committee on Culture on 8 December. The Minister for Education and Science justified the need for the draft and explained its content and was assisted by ministerial advisor Piret Sapp. A rather lively debate followed, despite the fact that this is a rather small-scale draft. The questions, and what to deny there, also the reservations, were the same as those we have now heard in the questions and arguments submitted to the Minister. So when, during this debate, the honourable Minister for Education Jaak Aaviksoo said that this bill is neither meat nor fish, the general attitude of the Commission, which eventually developed, would be expressed in another proverb: the better half of the egg than the empty shell. The Commission concluded, however, that the steps envisaged in this draft are necessary in the current situation, as well as that which was clearly highlighted here, and which was also acknowledged by the Minister-General, that this draft will not, of course, be resolved in its entirety. A great deal of the same question is raised as many times today, namely when will the infamous or glorious § 82 come in a convincing and satisfying form of its entire society. The answer was also quite clear, as it sounded here, that he would not be able to complete it in this way and that the Ministry would not be able to submit it to the Riigikogu. So during the mandate of the current Riigikogu, it will not be discussed, but we hope that it will be here as soon as possible in the new formation. One might say that there is probably a great challenge here before the elections, which party dares to allow it to make the entire basic school and upper secondary school scheme unambiguously and convincingly clear and satisfying to society. I believe that this party would have a very significant competitive advantage over other parties in the elections. There weren't much more specific questions. However, the idea was that, as the private school law is also slightly amended, shouldn't everything that needs to be amended on the basis of the Supreme Court's judgment be changed in the Private School Act using this possibility. Here, too, there was a realistic view that it would not be possible to do so so quickly. If, for some reason, it is decided to take on this task and start doing it quickly, there is a risk that the solution will turn out that the Supreme Court will continue to need to return to this topic. Normal procedural decisions were taken in the Commission. It was somewhat unusual that the proposal to include this draft at all on the plenary agenda did not go through consensually: 5 members of the Commission were in favour and 2 were against. The rapporteur was appointed before you, and that was also the only consensual decision on this draft. The Commission proposed that the first reading should be completed by 4 votes against and 3 members of the Commission to be fixed at 5.15 p.m. on 6 January of the year starting on the deadline for the amendments. The last proposal was the same, in favour of 4 and against 3 members of the Commission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U353	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Do you want to open negotiations? They want me to open negotiations. Please ask for a speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Estonian Centre Party Group Mailis Repsi! Five or eight minutes? Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U354	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! We are now discussing the basic school and upper secondary school law again, this time also the private school law as an addition. When we open the bill, it seems at first glance that § 82, this long-awaited financing model, has come before us. Moreover, the keywords'support specialists' and 'additional support for upper secondary school students' may be added as a bonus even to the single funding of schools of Russian-speaking and Estonian-speaking students are quite positive signs. The fact that the funding of the Private Schools Act has been added is, at first glance, delightful in the light of the Supreme Court's judgment, after all, a quick reaction has been made. However, if we read the draft properly and follow the discussion, we understand that Bill 799 does not solve anything, that none of these issues are financed by private schools, that there is no under-funding for upper secondary school, that there is no additional support for a Russian-speaking student, be it in Estonian school or in the so-called 60:40 school, or the joint curriculum in school, and, unfortunately, that does not solve anything for support specialists. In principle, quite a number of people in the debate in the Committee on Culture were very clear that something could perhaps be done, but if this draft 799 is not adopted, then nothing will happen either. Let me introduce you to the bill. Support specialists have been identified as part of the first. We have been talking for several years about the decision of the previous government to stop funding support specialists within the education allowance provided by the state was a very serious mistake. This has led to a very heavy lay-off of support specialists in several municipalities, or their funding has remained so low, with a workload of either half or a quarter. It is clear that this has a very long educational policy effect. We have a lot of measures taken to make us notice. We are talking about early notice, we are talking about supporting the learning process, we are talking about regular learning of multilingual children, the need for additional support, not to mention the special educational needs in the broadest sense. We have learned to discover different forms of autism, we are talking more and more about hidden Asperger syndrome. We are talking about students with a wide range of special needs who come to a regular school who need additional support. The joint decision was that we must come back to funding support professionals in the new budget. Moreover, there were very high hopes, and that was also the reason, one of the greatest reasons why we sat at night, on very white nights, in the Riigikogu with the social democrats, a little more than a year ago. Now the government coalition has presented us with a draft, where the only measure proposed is that this money can be paid to the extent of the investment component. That won't solve the problem. This is a very small amount, and in most municipalities it is not even a very small amount close to what is actually being spent on support professionals. At least there would be so much flexibility that it could be spent on education support, but there was no such courage. Second topic: private schools. The Bill amends § 22 (2) of the Private Schools Act. The Supreme Court also said that this provision has to be reviewed in principle, because this amendment to the Private School Act and the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act a few years ago, that the so-called box cost has to be paid by the local government, is not justified. In terms of education, we have talked about this repeatedly, it is not justified in the long term. The local government's involvement in private education issues is currently non-existent. Nor can a local government plan a school network if it does not know what is going on in private education. We are certainly opposed to the fact that private education, which has already been born, is now not funded by this decision. The only model that has been proposed is that next year local authorities will continue to finance and that everyone will then go to the court on a compulsory basis and ask the Ministry of Education for their money back through the court. I am very convinced that the Supreme Court, when they suggested that this model should be changed, did not have such a vision in mind that all local authorities automatically go through the court and ask for the state's money back. Probably the Supreme Court still meant that the Riigikogu, which is the legislative power, will work out the model together with the executive power. And three of these models have been submitted to the Committee on Culture. It is certainly possible to propose a model here in the Riigikogu before 1 March or, let's say politely, before the anniversary of independence, a model that works and can be accepted, giving a clear signal to both local authorities and private schools. This model is very simple. This model is the same as that stated in § 22 (2): Private education contracts are concluded by the state with a private school holder. It will also have to pay the so-called box cost to the extent that it is agreed between the state and the local private school holder, and it will be possible to give him a mandate to specify in his regulations how it will be done. There is no need to invent a bicycle or discuss it for months. How exactly is going to proceed, for example, on the weighted average, which options will be available for controlling the quality of private education in the future, this is already the place of supervision procedure, and this will certainly be dealt with in more detail by the next Riigikogu. And last of high school education. It is very sad that the second government is taking steps backwards. Looking at the countries that set an example for us, even in Finland nearby, upper secondary school education, with electives, non-electives, which teach several foreign languages, is financed almost one and a half times more than basic education. We have very underfunded upper secondary school education. According to the last regulation of January last year, it is even more underfunded, sometimes 30% less than primary education. This isn't the right direction. These are the reasons why the Centre Party Group does not support the further processing of draft 799, proposing that the procedure be suspended and the draft be returned to the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U355	Thank you. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group Jaak Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U356	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Group of the Social Democratic Party supports the draft amendment to the PGS presented to us, seeing it as a first, albeit timid, step on the right track. To do this, we need to develop a model for funding the school network, where the state, i.e. the Ministry of Education, and local authorities go in the same way. One of the virtues of the draft we are currently discussing is that for more than several years the proposed solution has received the coordination of the local government associations. In the meantime, the whip and carrot method, which forced only a uniform school network with large and clean state gymnasiums, and hindered the development and financing of so-called full cycle schools in rural areas, has never been acceptable to social democrats. And it's not only that bending the entire school network into uniform force is pointless, but it's damaging. Rumours that only in a large and multi-choice upper secondary school will the student receive a high-quality education have not been confirmed in practice, whether by analysing the rankings of the state exams or by considering the long-standing international level of Estonian education. It is also a matter of taking life force from many Estonian rural settlements and small towns through the semi-punitive closure of rural secondary schools. Finally, it is also the case that the so-called "big and clean state gymnasium" is far from fit for everyone who wants to continue their education in high school. I will give an example of my country, Viljandi, where the maximum capacity of the state gymnasium is 180 students on the flight. They are now also filled, with only a dozen students studying there from outside Viljandi. At the same time, there are four more cycle schools in the county, in Suure-Jaani, Tartus, Abjas and Karksi-Nuia, where more than 80 students are studying in one flight. What right and basis would these students have to take up the possibility of upper secondary school education? It is therefore very commendable that the proposed legislative amendment provides for the possibility for the state to provide additional support for upper secondary schools, where the number of students in the secondary school is between 50 and 200. Of course, this support is still too small and does not guarantee that state secondary schools and municipal secondary schools are treated equally, as provided for by the Constitution. Additional funding is also required for secondary schools where children from Estonian and Russian-speaking comprehensive schools study together. A symbolic step will be taken in the draft by extending the national wage subsidy to support specialists. At least with this, we note at law level that it is also the duty of the state to take care of support specialists. In the meantime, this was done at the level of a government regulation that promised to pay them a salary on the account of education support. In the past few years, however, the Ministry of Education tried to ignore the problem. At the same time, while increasing the number of HEV students in regular schools and closing HEV1 schools, it has been completely illogical and irresponsible at national level to bypass the funding of support specialists, even though the law prescribes the existence of these services in schools. The current possibility that support specialists may be paid for the investment component is certainly not a sufficient solution, especially given that in larger centres, such as Tallinn, Tartu, Viljandi and elsewhere, the entire investment component is actually required to repay loans taken to repair school buildings. Of course, it is positive in itself that the investment component of the education grant remained at all, because a year ago, it was probably also under attack. The real solution to the problem is that within the overall education allowance, there is a clear amount of money that goes to hire support professionals or to buy the corresponding service from the Pathfinder centres. We hope to see that in next year's budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U357	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The Estonian Centre Party Group has proposed that the Bureau reject the draft at first reading 799. We need to vote on this proposal and we will start preparing the vote. Dear colleagues, the Estonian Central Party Group has proposed to reject the draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act and the Private School Act at first reading 799. Please take a stand and vote. There are 13 votes for and 47 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 799 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 6 January 2015. The first reading is closed and the 11th item is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U358	Let's move on to agenda item 12. The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending § 10 of the Law on the restriction of the acquisition of immovable property initiated by Etti Kagarov and Jaak Alliku, members of the Riigikogu. I ask for a presentation of Riigikogu speech chair Jaak Alliku, member of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U359	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The issue currently being discussed has probably been the most discussed topic during the working hours of the XII Riigikogu. In any case, today it should, in my opinion, be on the agenda for at least the ninth time, and there will be another tenth time immediately after this item has been closed. Three years ago, the House unanimously decided on this matter until the government withdrew its draft at third reading and began to talk about the security threat to be analysed. However, this analysis has not gone any further in three years. I don't want to waste your time because there's already been talk about it from this speaker board. I will just state clearly what we are asking for with the draft and we have also asked for in all previous debates on the same subject. For us, we are talking about allowing the resale of up to 0,2 hectares of gardening plots of persons residing in the so-called border zone and already privately owned, largely without Estonian nationality, but on the basis of a permanent residence permit, to other people living in Estonia on the basis of a permanent residence permit. In order to mitigate the potential risk of security talk, we will see quite clear arrangements in our draft this time. Such purchase and sale could only take place with the permission of the county governor, who is obliged to ask the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior for an opinion on each particular transaction. One to secure that this hut with the plot is not an object of national defence, and the other to look into the buyer's background. Why do we pursue it? Firstly, because this is a practical problem, as demonstrated by the frequent raising of this issue at meetings with the voters of Ida-Virumaa. The point is that there is no sufficient market for such immovable property among the citizens of the Republic of Estonia, but these houses should not fall apart and the land should be fertilely used. Secondly, there is no logical argument to explain why such a restriction is...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U360	Good waitress, I'm sorry! Good fellows! The waitress doesn't have the quietest voice, but there's still noisy over it. Please respect the waitress and the hundreds of members of the Riigikogu who wish to listen to the presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U361	There's no hundred here. Secondly, as I said, there is no logical argument for explaining why such a restriction or prohibition is imposed on an individual, while this person, by registering a business without any obstacle, can buy land in the same border zone without anyone's permission and without any restrictions, and no one is talking about security risks. Inevitably, people accept such a restriction as bullying by the petty state directed at them. And therefore, thirdly, we are proposing this precisely for internal security policy reasons, because we believe it is very important to let all people living permanently in the Republic of Estonia, regardless of their nationality, know that the Estonian state views them as loyal compatriots without prejudice. To understand that the state is on their side, which is the assumption that, if necessary, they will also be on their side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U362	Thank you very much, good waitress. You have at least one question. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U363	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Are you aware that practices such as those proposed in your bill have already been and are you familiar with its implementation?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U364	Mr Stalnukhin! Last time you went to this station, I briefed myself on your report. In fact, you said that this practice, I do not know when it was, I have not looked at it twice, but you did not say whether they were successful twice, whether the governor granted the permit. Secondly, I do not know why this opportunity has been used so little. I don't have an answer here either, and neither did you. Was this time too confusing for people at the time, or was that permission not granted? In itself, I do not believe that it is a bad thing for a person to submit a proposal to a county governor, not to the Government of the Republic, as it is now, nor to explain or prove that it is in the national interest that he wants to buy this 0.2 hectare. It's the way it is now. Now it's time to put this thing on the head of the country and wait a few months. I don't think it would pose any psychological or legal difficulties for a person. It must be more difficult to build a private limited company.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U365	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U366	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I'd like to ask you about the opinion of the Department of Defense and the Ministry of the Interior. Is it somehow limited, or is it unlimited? The opinion may be whatever, as we say, was four years ago when we discussed this bill in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U367	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U368	On the basis of my lack of legal knowledge, the opinion is not mandatory for a rural elder. If it were written 'coordination', then it should be mandatory. The mayor hears the opinion, he has to ask it, but according to this bill, he would have his own discretion.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U369	I have a question on the same subject. The mayor asks permission from both the Department of Defense and the Ministry of the Interior. The Department of Defense, as he has said a few times in the Commission, clearly does not see any danger. Says God to it, go ahead. The Ministry of the Interior responds directly on the contrary, as we have heard, that this poses a threat, etc. So you, being head of the county, think that the Ministry of the Interior, the same police and the police, say there's some kind of security threat here, and maybe I'll give you permission. Do you really think someone in this situation is gonna give permission?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U370	You see, Mr Stalnukhin, I see a difference here in the fact that in the current context, there is talk of a security threat as an abstraction. However, if there is a specific situation that Mr Stalnukhin, for example, wants Mr Efendiev to have a graphic example of selling his 0,2 hectares of land, then it must be shown why Mr Efendiev poses such a security risk that he cannot buy it. It all comes down to a very specific relationship. I don't think the mayor can just answer that it's a security threat. However, it also needs to identify, justify or explain this security threat to the applicant.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U371	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U372	Thank you. At the time, I wanted to ask whether the answer or decision of the mayor should be justified. Are there such criteria as to justify it? Or don't need to be justified at all, can only be answered yes or no?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U373	I think it's an administrative act issued by a county governor that can be sued.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U374	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Please present the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Rural Affairs Committee Kalvi Tõud!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U375	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, The Rural Commission discussed the draft law in 749 s. a at its meeting on 8 December 2005. As Jaak Allik, one of the initiators of the draft, has discussed this issue on several occasions, both in this Chamber and in the Commission. Etti Kagarov, one of the initiators of the draft law, was invited to the debate on the 749 draft law, and since, during the next item on the agenda, a similar draft law was discussed in the committee, Mikhail Stalnukhin, member of the Central Party Group. As a Commission waitress, I am not going to disown the substance of this law again. It must be acknowledged that since this matter has been discussed several times in the Commission, the Members of the Commission did not have many questions, one can say that they were not at all. The procedural decisions taken by the Commission were: to appoint the Chairman of the Committee Kalvi Ring as rapporteur for the Committee on Rural Affairs and to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the 749 plenary assembly on 16 December; to propose that the first reading of the draft 749 be completed by a consensus; to propose that it be 5; the 0 votes against 2; and to set 10 working days for amendments in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Home of the Riigikogu Act, i.e. 5 January 2015.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U376	Good waitress, there's at least one question for you. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U377	Thank you. Good colleague! Don't you think all these applications, appeals to the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of the Interior and the County Elder will extend the review of this application a great deal, and the person will still have to walk and wait? How long do you think this process will last?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U378	Thank you, my good colleague. Regardless of the length of this process, maybe the length of the proceedings stretches over a month or two, the draft law gives at least the opportunity to sell-buy it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U379	Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U380	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Does the draft law specify whether the Võru governor can also grant permission to buy land in Narva-Jõesuu, or can it be granted only by the county governor of the region concerned?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U381	Thank you. We can clarify this in the second reading, but as far as I can see from the content of this bill, it is still the rural government and the county governor in which the plot in question is located.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U382	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U383	Dear waitress, If I'm not mistaken, the bill says, "Who is in the territory of the county government?" Would Mr. Arrow read the bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U384	Thank you. If that's what it says, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U385	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Mikhail Stalnukhini, representative of the Estonian Central Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair of Speech!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U386	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, First, we correct the mistake: Stalnukhin and Efendiev are not going to write a statement to the governor. Not because they are so proud, but simply because Estonian citizenship exists. Well, at least that's something we should pay attention to while we're sitting in this hall. Secondly, don't you think there is some logical contradiction in this bill? We understand, after receiving support from you in the Committee on Rural Affairs over the years, that you realise that there is no threat to security from this 0.2 hectare, which is usually still six to ten centuries, even half of this 0.2. The fact that people are now going to write these appeals will create additional bureaucracy how will this help? How will it help to normalize our lives when, once again, everything begins to depend? Suppose there could be a free market and conditions where everyone is equal. They don't have much land. Or maybe there's conditions where the mayor will turn to the Ministry of Defense once, once to the Ministry of the Interior. Giulietto Chiesa, the European Parliament's ex-girlfriend, didn't know he was on a blacklist. Do you know what lists these people are going to turn, and what does it have to do with this 0.06 acre? Colleagues, when it came to the beginning that you were giving up the draft on this subject, I wondered if you would really take the idea that is in our draft, you would turn in on your own, and that is it. Right now, I'd be glad if you'd done it, even if it was for your own good. What you're offering is incomprehensible to people. Why does his neighbor just sell, but he has to apply for permission? How long will this situation last? After all, these are normal taxpayers. The colour of the passport is slightly different, and that's it. A fine Russian writer named Viktor Konetski has a story where he tells about how he returned from his ship in Arkhangelsk as a young man. Some local crooks jumped and tried to take his watch off. So he writes this way, I really like this sentence: "In order to maintain my dignity, I tried to keep the watch belt. ' Colleagues, my appeal is to try to maintain your dignity. We see the hole in your bill, but we are not going to vote against it. At the same time, we hope that you will support this draft, which you have already supported three times in this House, both in the Commission and in this Chamber. And then there's a real chance to solve the problem, two drafts to unite. On the basis of the scheme, that's what I was talking about in the Committee on Rural Affairs. Get some of that sense of man back, after all! I'm talking about the next bill. At least you don't vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U387	Thank you. There's no more calls. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 749 amendments at 5 January 2015 at 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the 12th item is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U388	Let's move on to agenda item 13. This is the first reading of the draft law amending the law on the restriction of the acquisition of immovable property initiated by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. I would like to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu to Mikhail Stalnukhin, member of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U389	Ladies and gentlemen, I am really here for the fourth time in the current Riigikogu with this bill. Now, if I'm going to tell you the contents of this at this hour, that would mean I'm just mocking you. You know perfectly well what you're talking about and who you're talking about. I therefore appeal to you: if one of the drafts on this issue has found your support, please also support this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U390	Good waitress, one question for you. Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U391	Mr Stalnukhin! You are, like me, a rather long-time Member in this Chamber. I have a question for you both in the framework of this bill and in the context of our more morning dispute. Please tell me what it takes to get one bill to go through the Riigikogu in Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U392	I'll tell you. Luckily, the rule here hasn't said anything about how much I can tell you. I can tell you what it takes. In order for the normal drafts to go through in this Chamber, those that are normally prepared, where there is no crack, we, my dear colleagues, need to go back to the time that ended in 2005. We need not only to bring the members of the Riigikogu back to local government councils, but also to give them all the opportunities that were before 2005. Strangely enough, about six hours ago, I spoke a little bit about this. There have been almost all members of the Riigikogu in this Chamber, for example 99 members of the Riigikogu in their ninth composition. They depended on their constituents and everyone wondered how I would go to the council and how I would talk to people, they would know how I voted on one thing or another. And this is where we could talk to everyone. I have negotiated with all the representatives of the political groups on one issue or another. In order for the normal laws to go through here, it is really necessary that we members of the Riigikogu depend on our elector, not on the bosses of our party. It's going to be really easy right now. I'm talking here, but the hall is empty, and there's probably no one among the missing to at least listen to what's going on in this hall. They're just waiting for the chair to ring the bell. They don't think, they don't need it, no one digs. When you were in opposition, Jaak, you understood that. It is necessary for those sitting here to be dependent on their constituents, not on the leadership of the party. By the way, there'd be a lot less runaways. I can give a number of examples of how the issues were resolved back then. The opposition made a proposal which clearly showed that the draft initiated by the Government of the Republic was a failure. No one was afraid of any political influence. Nobody wondered if it would lower the committee or the political group or even the Riigikogu. They took a break and discussed it normally instead of just passing the road roll. If necessary, the reading was interrupted, further discussed and the draft was brought back. It was impossible to see so much trouble here. But think about what happened yesterday. You're looking at any bill coming from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. Oh, my God, it's impossible to fill! But there's no fear of voters, there's fear of their superiors. The order is given and voted, no matter what happens next. That's what you need to break, Jack! The decision-making power needs to be brought back to this hall. This hall has become a temple, a rubber stamp, a seal. The President has once spoken of this quite rightly. If this situation changes, normal decisions will come, people will listen to what they say in the lightning. Then it is not the letters that come into our mailbox hundreds of times, but the question will be whether or not there is a real problem for people. Is Estonia on such a high level as to introduce the Cohabitation Act or to accept the juvenile justice that is in the Child Protection Act? Are we ready enough for 16-year-olds to choose? We should talk to the voters, and they would tell us that a 16-year-old doesn't understand politics yet, and he doesn't have any interest either. But we're not discussing it! We've been doing round tables, we've been conducting conferences just so some bill can be accurately considered. And one thing that should be the last thing to remember: we had a steady economic growth for several years, we had a positive development. About the beginning of the 90s until 2007, 2008 we had only positive changes in each sphere. It began to change when members of the Riigikogu from different political groups started coming to Narva Council who did not know what the average pension was, what the minimum wage was, what part of our salary is exempt from income tax. I don't care, I don't answer to the voter. With your question, Jaak, you probably wanted to say that you are under pressure, that this is the only way for you to go through something and say something in Ida-Virumaa, that it can only be done in the form you had it. But that is not the case. We need to change the principles of our lives. And most important is the voter, the majority of the voters. We don't understand that. If there's something I didn't tell you, you still have a second chance.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U393	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U394	Thank you. I don't want to comment on this long statement, I was just waiting for an answer. In order for something to go through in this Chamber, we need a majority and a majority of voters.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U395	We're in the middle of a round of questions right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U396	This is a round of questions and I have the opportunity to answer. Jaak, how do you explain that being in opposition in the IX Riigikogu, we did about 50 drafts under our own name, with Velman, Kreitzberg, Tõnisson and others? Velman's office hangs on the wall, who doesn't believe, let him go and watch 14 laws. We were in opposition, but 14 draft laws went through. We didn't have those voices. What I told you in answer to your first question is exactly connected. Most of it is necessary for the budget. With regard to the budget, the opposition can never, in principle, support the government coalition, that is the law. In everything else, we need to find a common language. Do your voters live in another country rather than in Estonia? Or do our voters live in another country, not in Estonia? Why can I not defend the rights of my constituents in this Parliament for four years? Who will take this right from me? Is that you? But what right do you have to do that? So the majority is not needed in this hall, this hall needs a conscience and responsibility to the Estonian and Estonian people!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U397	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U398	Thank you, manager. Good colleague! My colleague Jaak Allik actually said the truth that those drafts, which are coalitions, have a majority, are going through. Parliament's work will, after all, become meaningless. If this logic is to be taken into account, no opposition bill should have to go through.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U399	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Please present the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Rural Affairs Committee Kalvi Tõud!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U400	Thank you, Tarmo! You're thinking right. I think that our work on the rule can make a change, such as the one-minute rule. The people may sit quietly in the office, listen to nothing, take no part in anything, the shepherd will ring the bell in time, and then the animals will run together, it is the right time to do their job. This finger is the most important instrument, you don't need a head at all, but press the button. Tarmo, I think we have a common idea, a rule could make a correction, that if you get into opposition, you don't have to go to work. Why do we come here when they decide everything and absolutely don't want to listen to us? And it's called democracy. We're here for the picture.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U401	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Rural Affairs also discussed draft 769 at its meeting on 8 December. Mikhail Stalnukhin, member of the Estonian Central Party Group, had been invited to present the draft to the meeting. As this draft has also been well discussed several times in the previous Committee on Rural Affairs, a small overview was given and there were a few individual questions. The Commission then went to the decisive part. The following proposals were made: to put draft 769 on the agenda of the plenary session on 16 December (consensually), to appoint Mr Kalvi Tõvi (consensually) as rapporteur and to reject draft 769 at first reading (by 5, 2 against, 0 abstentions). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U402	Good waitress, one question for you. Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U403	Can you justify what was the main or most important argument for rejecting the bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U404	Since the members of the Commission are free in their decisions, these votes were divided.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U405	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U406	Thank you. The second question is that these two drafts are almost equal in substance. Only the bill proposed by the Sos are an additional bureaucracy scheme. Please tell me why it was necessary to allow and proceed with a draft of the same content, but with a bureaucratic burden, rather than to discuss the pure solution proposed by the Central Party Group? Why can't we combine these drafts, for example, and they're not at odds?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U407	Thank you. Three points. Firstly, this draft, which we have just voted on, was not tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, but by our colleagues Etti Kagarov and Jaak Allik. Second point. I can say my own position on why I was in favour or against one law or another: the previous draft contained points that, for me, contained nuances to reduce the potential security risk. The third point you referred to. Yes, the two drafts can be combined, but this can only be done after the first reading has been completed if both drafts remain in the process.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U408	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U409	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the Commission. Kalvi, you have been chairman of the committee for many years and you know your committee. Could you perhaps explain why, for the same text, with the same justification, some Members of the Commission will vote in favour, against once? What could this have to do with anything? Have you changed your way of thinking or what usually happens?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U410	Thank you. I can't tell you what happens in the minds of one person or another, but time is changing, and certainly many thoughts and decisions have changed in time because of the way time has made its corrections.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U411	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U412	Thank you, good manager. Good colleague! Can you briefly tell how a politically appointed mayor reduces the risk of security?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U413	Good Tarmo, this bill doesn't deal with it. But if you come back to the previous bill, the mayor will ask the Minister of Defense and the Minister of Home Affairs for an opinion when he makes his decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U414	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U415	Thank you. I learned from the explanation that times change and views change. How much time does it usually take? Is it possible to calculate that February 20 is one way of thinking, and then March 8 is another? This is quite interesting, both in terms of psychology and in terms of our practical work. After all, we must consider that people working with us in the future may be able to change their outlook in three days. That's very interesting. I will also look at another camp where people have not changed any of their views for 20 years. It's interesting to me.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U416	Thank you, my good colleague Mikhail. It must be said that we did not discuss this in our own meeting of the Committee on Rural Affairs when people's thoughts change.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U417	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject draft 769 at first reading. Let us begin with the preparation of the vote on this proposal. Dear colleagues, I would like to put to the vote draft proposal 769 from the lead committee to be rejected at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There are 38 members of the Riigikogu, 10 against and 0 abstentions. Draft Act 769 amending the Law on restrictions on the acquisition of immovable property initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the procedure. The 13th item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U418	We will move on to the 14th item, which is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Local Government Organisation Act and the Local Government Election Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Hanno Pevkuri, Minister of the Interior, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U419	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! This draft is certainly a technical draft on the one hand, but it is nevertheless a good draft. The main objective of the draft before you is to solve the problems raised in the elections of local government units and councils, as well as the problems raised in the everyday practice of the Riigikogu Election Committee and under the attention of the Supreme Court. Problems relate to the early termination of the council member's mandate, the appointment of an alternate council member and the performance of the functions of the city and rural municipality secretary. The draft also specifies the content of the operating limit for a council member and the language requirement for the mayor, mayor and a member of the government. The inconsistencies between the provisions in force so far and the resulting ambiguities will also be clarified. The following are details of the changes. Firstly, in the future, personal elections will not be subject to the operating restrictions laid down in the Anti-Corruption Act. Secondly, according to the practice of the Supreme Court, it is stated that a member of the local council, who is at the same time an official in the same municipality, is not subject to the premature termination of the mandate of a council member, but his powers stop until the person is a member of the city or rural municipality government. In the event of the termination of the suspension of the mandate of a member of the Council, the person shall have the right to choose whether he wishes to continue as an official or as a member of the council. Thirdly, an alternate shall be provided with the option of choosing whether he wishes to become a member of the Council or to continue his work until now if his former office cannot be reconciled with his status as a member of the Council. Until now, the alternate council member's mandate was terminated before the deadline and the alternate had no choice. Fourthly, a member of a council elected or appointed or appointed, in the same municipality or city, as an elder or mayor of the municipality mayor may no longer participate in the discussion or decision on an individual act conferring remuneration or compensation, even if the suspension of the mandate of his or her member of the council has not yet entered into force. The purpose of the provision is to make it clear that the economic interests of the relevant council member are in this case. Fifthly, it is stated that the results of the personal elections will not be voted on publicly. Sixthly, the language requirement for an elder, mayor or member of the government is specified. The language requirement is also specified for local government officials and employees. However, it must be acknowledged that this is not a new requirement at the level of the law, since it concerns those persons who were excluded from the scope of that law when the new Civil Service Act entered into force. Seventhly, it is specified that the president of the paid council, the mayor and the mayor who has been dismissed as a result of a change in the administrative-territorial organisation shall be compensated by a decision of the council. Eighthly, it is stipulated that, if a replacement has been appointed for the absence of a rural municipality or city secretary, the functions of chairman of the municipal and city electoral committees shall be performed by a replacement of a rural municipality or city secretary. This change is due to the observation of the Supreme Court. Ninthly, the Local Government Council Election Act provides for a deadline of five working days for a candidate who has been elected to the Council, who is at that time in a position incompatible with the membership of the Council, to report his or her choice to the Election Commission. The draft proposes to harmonise the notification period with the Local Government Organisation Act by setting out three working days. When the bill is adopted, Estonia's legal space will hopefully become clearer. The decisions of the Supreme Court are introduced into the Estonian legal order and the different interpretations of legislation are also reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U420	Minister, there are also questions for you. Etti Kagarov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U421	Thank you. Good waitress! I haven't read it, but I wanted to be more specific. The elders went outside the Civil Service Act and are not in employment on the basis of an employment contract. Is this bill now laying down the legal status of the parish elders?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U422	Thank you. No, the legal status of the parish elders has not been discussed here. A parish elder or mayor is appointed by a council or city council and nothing changes as regards its appointment. This bill deals with the language requirement that will be introduced into the Local Government Organisation Act, in particular § 482.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U423	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U424	Thank you, manager. Good minister! I'm asking about this inter-election merger. Is it really right that the state determines that these parish elders or mayors will receive an additional six months' pay? Perhaps some mayor would be motivated if he could get it for, for example, seven months. Why do you have to have six months in it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U425	Thank you. This is a discussion place. After all, the clarification in the draft is that it will be decided by a decision of the Council. But whether or not to set a cap in the parliamentary debate is a perfectly appropriate subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U426	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I would now like to ask a member of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu Chair, our good colleague, Väino Linde!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U427	Oh, thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. This happened on 9 December when we discussed this draft in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and spent exactly 18 minutes, no more and no less. And just as today, the minister first gave an overview of the working conditions of the draft. The Commission received a picture of the need for this draft. We found that, in fact, it would be possible to interpret most of the solutions that are the subject of this draft, to solve all these problems through interpretation. However, if there is such a need, the Commission decided unequivocally to support this draft. And, consensually, we also decided to propose ending the first reading of the draft. The deadline for amendments could be entirely normal, i.e. 10 working days, to be completed on the evening of 6 January next year at 4 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U428	Good waitress! Looks like the picture's clear, no questions asked. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I set the deadline of 6 January 2015 for the submission of 788 amendments at 4 p.m. The first reading is closed and the 14th item is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U429	The 15th item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Aliens Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and in this connection the amendment of other laws. It is a great honour and pleasure to welcome once again Hanno Pevkur, Minister of the Interior, in the Riigikogu Chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U430	Mr. Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! The vice-president of the Riigikogu has already read the title of the law to you, so I will go straight to the content. The draft is quite substantial, including amendments to a total of eight laws, so I can only discuss my report on the most important groups of amendments. Firstly, a transitional period of 90 days will be introduced after the end of the residence permit, during which an alien may stay in Estonia and apply for the permit on a new basis. Foreign students and researchers or academics who graduated from Estonian higher education institutions will have an even longer transition period, 183 days in particular. The purpose of the amendment is to create the possibility of a flexible transition from one temporary residence permit to another. The distinction between students, researchers and lecturers is also due to the draft directive on learning and research migration, which is being discussed in the Council of Europe working group, which provides for the retention of researchers and students for a maximum period of six months. It aims to contribute to human capital of high-skilled potential workers in Europe in order to foster research development and innovation. Secondly, a new basis for granting a residence permit is established for moving to Estonia permanently. And it is given to a person who has lived in Estonia for at least three years and has adapted here. The purpose of creating this type of residence permit is to enable foreigners who have or have had a residence permit for the last five years to stay in Estonia, regardless of whether the alien has in the meantime settled in another country or have stayed in Estonia. Thirdly, there is the possibility of mitigating structural labour shortages in a sector determined by the government, by paying the employee an average salary in at least the relevant sector. The amendment stipulates that the government may establish a list of areas where there is a high labour shortage and where there is no labour force in the Estonian labour market with the required skills, qualifications and work experience. Fourthly, it is stipulated that the unemployment fund may authorise the recruitment of several aliens to Estonia at the same time, instead of one former foreigner, if the corresponding skills and skilled workforce cannot be found in Estonia. At present, the unemployment fund grants permission to fill a job with a specific person. The amendment clarifies the regulation of the unemployment fund's authorisation requirement and states that the unemployment fund may authorise several jobs at the same time and does not relate to a specific alien, since it is not the responsibility of the unemployment fund to assess the specific situation of the foreigner but of the workforce in a particular area. Fifthly, it is stipulated that an alien temporarily or temporarily staying in Estonia on the basis of a temporary residence permit has the possibility to work as a temporary agency worker in Estonia. Sixthly, it is stipulated that an alien who has come to work in Estonia can work for several employers at the same time. The amendment removes the differences that require the permission of the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund or the payment of the salary provided for in the Act when starting work with another employer, as in reality working with an alien does not affect the situation of the Estonian labour market, but at the same time reduces the possibilities for an alien to contribute to Estonian society. In addition, a legislative amendment will help prevent unreasonable situations where, for example, an alien working as a scientist is prohibited from publishing an article in a scientific journal because it is working with another employer within the meaning of the Aliens Act. Seventhly, the regulation on digital ID issuance of e-resident is being supplemented, which, as we know, entered into force already on 1 December and has received wide-ranging attention in the world. The draft provides a legal basis for issuing digital IDs to an e-resident on the basis of a single customer contact and for applying for and issuing digital IDs through foreign agencies. The current regulation does not allow the e-resident to issue a document via foreign representations. In order to simplify the process of issuing digital IDs for e-resident and to create convenient conditions for applying, the corresponding additions to the Identity Documents Act are planned. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! As a member of the government, I certainly support the proposal of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to conclude the first reading of the draft and to adopt the draft as a law as soon as possible so that we can get on with these changes in life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U431	Minister, thank you. No questions. I would like Mr Andres Herkel, member of the Constitutional Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U432	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the law on foreigners and, in this connection, the amendment of other laws 809 was discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 8 December. The discussion also included the Minister of the Interior, Mr Pevkur, and the advisers of the Citizenship and Migration Policy Department of the Ministry of the Interior, Laura Sofia Annus, Ele Russak, Mariann Kirsipuu, and the legal adviser of the same department, Mariko Jõeorg. We had a relatively long and lively debate in which various issues arose, including the impact that the latest amendments to the Aliens Act have had in 2013 and the positive effect that this reduction in administrative constraints and red tape could have on us. But I think it is best to highlight one aspect here, which maybe came out most clearly in the Commission's discussions, and where there was also a difference between the Members of the Commission and the solution proposed in the draft. This concerns a draft amendment that would allow disciplinary proceedings to be imposed at the detention centre. In fact, so far there has been a practice that certain coercive measures can be applied to expelled persons in the detention centre, but only if the expelled person is threatened by other expelled or supervisory authorities. The Chancellor of Justice has also visited the Expulsion Centre of the Police and Border Guard Board and raised the question whether such security measures are always legitimate in practice. Sometimes it's too easy to apply. To be honest, we did not quite understand what it meant that the proposal to introduce such a standard had come from the Chancellor of Justice. It is now clear that the Chancellor of Justice has made comments on current practice and this is certainly a problem to which the Commission must come back at two subsequent readings. Of the Members of the Commission, Rein Lang had the most clear position, which pointed out that taking liberty from a person is a very harsh measure. Anyway, the person in the detention centre is subject to restrictions on movement because he is illegally in Estonia, and such a cafeteria logic should not be included in the 21st century. The Minister of the Interior also pointed out that this solution had come into the draft on the basis of a letter from the Chancellor of Justice, but that it could actually be done in the detention centre, i.e. without amending the law in such a way as to allow such disciplinary sanctions to be imposed by the cartel method. For the rest of the topics that the Minister of the Interior raised here, there were also questions, but they were not so important in terms of the overall picture and there were no differences here, rather explanations were asked. The Commission proposed that this draft be placed on the agenda of today's plenary session, that the first reading of the draft be closed and that the deadline for amendments be set at...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U433	January. I started looking at that December. So on 6 January, at 4 p.m., it was also proposed to appoint a rapporteur for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U434	... January.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U435	Good waitress, thank you. There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? I don't see any requests. The Governing Commission's firm position is that the first reading of draft 809 should be completed. I will set the deadline of 6 January 2015 at 4 p.m. for the submission of draft 809 amendments. The first reading is closed and the 15th item is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U436	We will move on to the 16th item, which is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Advertising Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask Urve Palo, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U437	Good evening, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! The draft law amending the Advertising Act is part of a package of measures to address the problems encountered in the credit market. In addition to the advertising restrictions imposed by this draft, the following measures are included in the wider package: A draft has been prepared at the Ministry of Finance which imposes an authorisation obligation on non-bank creditors and credit intermediaries and all creditors and credit intermediaries are subject to supervision by the Financial Supervision Authority. The Ministry of Justice's draft bans the resolution of disputes arising from consumer credit agreements in arbitration and sets a ceiling on the percentage of charge for consumer credit agreements. It also limits the collection costs charged to the consumer and clarifies the rules on late payment. All these drafts have now also reached the Riigikogu proceedings and I hope that they will move forward quickly. Limiting consumer credit advertising is an important part of the whole package of measures. Unfortunately, the promotion of consumer credit by businesses so far has given rise to a view in society that borrowing is a natural part of life, regardless of the person's ability to repay the loan at a later stage. The recognised fact is that advertising and its content significantly shape the information space in which people live. Consumer credit advertising constantly recalls the possibility of financing a loan as one of its daily needs and therefore normalises it as a solution. As of 28 July of this year, 35976 persons who have been registered in the Register of Disorders of Payments who have been in default on loans issued by companies specialising in the granting of consumer credit. It's more than people living in Pärnu. Of these, 56% had one loan up as a default, while the remaining 44%, or half, had two or three or even more loans. Unfortunately, according to debt advisors, the number of problem borrowers is increasing as time moves. This draft is designed with the aim of creating a healthier information environment where the consumption of products potentially dangerous to people's economic lives is not considered to be self-evident, thereby protecting the interests and rights of the weaker party in the contractual relationship. The main changes to meet this objective are as follows: Firstly, the information disclosed in the advertising of consumer credit, including after-tax, leasing, mortgage and consumer credit, is limited. According to the amendment, consumer credit advertising may in the future contain only essential information provided by law, such as the name and registration number of the service provider, site contact details, the example of the percentage rate of charge, the call for access to financial services conditions, the repayment period and similar information. Secondly, the advertising of consumer credit, namely the promotion of the loan of money in the television and radio programme, is prohibited. Advertising in print and outdoor media and on the Internet will remain acceptable, but with the restrictions I spoke about in advance, i.e. only the name of the service provider, the licence number, the contact details of the site, the example of the percentage rate of charge and the call for access to the conditions of financial services can be shown. Consumer credit promotion must be responsible, it must not give the impression that it is an opportunity to solve financial problems, and it must not tip off reckless borrowing. I would point out that the prohibition does not apply to advertising of housing loans, credit cards used as cross-border means of payment, hire-purchase or leasing. In the case of advertising broadcasts broadcast in television or radio programmes, the conditions of the promotional product cannot be sufficiently understood and deepened as contact is short-term. This period is not sufficient to allow consumers to make a fully considered decision on the consumption of services, and therefore advertising bans are particularly on TV and radio. A ban on advertising on television and radio does not mean a ban on the disclosure of a trade mark if it has been done on the principle of responsibility, i.e. the trade mark may be advertised but the product may not. Sponsor notifications shall also be accepted. The changes proposed by the draft will result in a reduction in the number of consumer credit borrowers who make the loan decision lightly, without adequately assessing the risks to their economic well-being. This will reduce both the number of people in default and the worsening of the defaults of persons already in debt and the transmission of the related social problems. I very much hope, good members of the Riigikogu, that next Christmas, we will no longer see such ads where we are called upon to take a quick loan in order to buy gifts or have a couch similar to that of a neighbor. Such emotional adverts will disappear from 1 March next year and the number of people in financial difficulties, which has increased due to SMS borrowing, will be significantly reduced. Once again, I stress that, of course, restricting advertising is not the only magic wand, but it is very important that all three ministries, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications have worked together and developed the whole package, which could be of great use to the people of Estonia, I think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U438	Thank you. Ambassador Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U439	Thank you, Ambassador Ratas! Minister, thank you very much. Does this draft entail certain risks to television channels? We have had concerns that, since this sector accounts for about 10% of the advertising revenue from private television channels, the disappearance of this part could have a significant impact on the quality and availability of their services. Have you been familiar with such consequences or possible negative effects?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U440	Thank you. I have also read articles of opinion on this subject and have listened to comments. The truth is that the proposed changes have a certain impact on the profitability of media companies. Market participants estimate that the share of all loan adverts in the advertising turnover of channels ranges from 4 to 5%. The highest known share reached 9%. I guess that's the maximum, but speaking to market participants, it's generally 41⁄2 percent on average, and it's 9% maximum. This assessment takes into account all loan promotions, but according to the draft, the ban on the channel does not apply to several loan forms, such as leasing, post-payments, housing loans and cross-border credit cards, which is likely to have a lower impact. In addition, I would like to stress here that we need to look at this picture much wider than the profits of some companies. In the same way, you might consider allowing smoke advertising for example on TV. I'm sure it'll give the TV channels extra revenue. But that is not what we are doing, because we understand that it is not responsible to allow cigarettes to be advertised. So we don't even consider it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U441	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I would like to ask Kristen Michal, member of the Economic Commission, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U442	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will also give a brief overview of the draft. Since the bill is the same as the executive, or government, has entrusted to the tender hands of the legislators, I apologise in advance for the repetition of the evening! I'm trying to be as brief as possible, but there's still a few things I have to turn down for the verbatim. What's this bill doing? The same draft, as the Minister has already said, briefly limits the advertising of fast-track loans. This bill is part of a larger plan and our spring coalition agreement. This coalition agreement sets out the principle that, in order to protect consumers, the activities of high-speed credit companies will be subject to stricter control, and among the measures that will carry out this verification, the introduction of a licence requirement, effective national supervision and advertising restrictions. So this is what this bill is about. The Minister has already introduced it, but I will once again list the drafts that are part of this larger plan. Firstly, the already mentioned draft law on creditors and intermediaries harmonises the requirements for market operators. The draft Law on Creditors and Credit Intermediaries complements precisely the activities of non-bank creditors and credit intermediaries, i.e. those who grant credit to private individuals, i.e. consumers. Moreover, as has been said, this principle also follows from the Coalition Agreement that it lays down the obligation for them to apply for authorisation, which essentially brings together all creditors and intermediaries under the supervision of the Financial Supervision Authority. Those who are familiar with previous debates on SMS loans know that it has actually been the subject of this debate for several years and is also part of the package. This is not the subject of this draft, but it is part of the package. The second part of the larger plan that the coalition has concerning SMS loans is linked to the Code of Civil Procedure, which prohibits the resolution of disputes arising from consumer credit agreements in arbitration. The Law of Obligations Act and the Law on the General Part of the Civil Code are also amended in order to set a cap on the percentage of charge for a consumer credit agreement. This is the three-fold cost rate of consumer loans published by Eesti Pank in the draft, which is in the calculated order of 100-110%. There is always a question of whether this could be a little more stringent, but the question remains with the Commission. The third part of this package is the draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act and the Tabitor Protection Act, which sets specific limits on the amount of collection costs charged to the consumer and, to some extent, also specifies the regulation of late payment. It also establishes certain differences during the duration of the contractual relationship and after the termination of the contract. Now specifically this draft, which we are talking about, is the draft law amending the advertising law. The law amending and implementing the Law on Law Enforcement, which entered into force in mid-2013, transposed into the Advertising Act a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down standard information to be included in any advertisement containing an interest rate or any other invoice relating to credit costs to the consumer. This draft is also based on this standard information as regards the information to be disclosed in advertising, but goes beyond the requirements of the Directive by limiting the information to be provided in advertising to the name, registration number and contact details of the service provider. To summarise briefly, it can be said that any adverts that indicate that a person may receive an amount of money or that someone is communicating such contracts are not covered by a mortgage, credit card, hire-purchase or lease-purchase are prohibited in the television and radio programme. Advertising informing that consumer credit is granted or the corresponding contracts are mediated may only provide the following information (predominantly mandatory information as mentioned): the name and registration number of the service provider, the contact details of the place of business, a typical example of credit terms with the information set out in the law, information on interest rates (whether fixed or fixed), fees included in the total cost of the credit, as well as information on whether it is necessary to conclude a side contract (which is then required) in order to obtain the credit or to obtain the credit, as well as an invitation to examine the terms and conditions of financial services and, where appropriate, to consult an expert. So generally, relatively technical advertising comes out and certainly has an impact on loan promotions. As the Minister has also mentioned, I do not think that the members of the Riigikogu, or many others, are pleased that one area must be restricted in the market. But it certainly isn't quite moral and reasonable if we have to listen on radio and TV just before Christmas to a commercial that says Dad, buy me a sled and take a SMS loan. However, to me, as a right-wing, market-believing liberal, this does not seem quite reasonable. So that is why we are in this draft today and that is the text in the coalition agreement. There was a relatively meaningful debate in the Commission. Ministers and experts were asked why the term "high-speed credit' is not defined. The representatives of the Ministry explained that they have cooperated with other ministries for this purpose, but have not been able to find a universal solution and therefore the package has already been chosen. Then it came about why the channels where loan ads are restricted were set up in this way, namely, why television and radio. As the explanatory memorandum to the bill and the Ministry say, the basis for the choice is the fact that the emotional nature of the advertisement can be removed. On television and on radio, loan ads are more emotional, and they are mostly channels where these ads are actually presented in this form. They then asked how such advertisements were regulated in neighbouring countries. And the answer was that the European Union Consumer Credit Directive, which obliges consumers to provide certain information when products are advertised, is, in general, mandatory information that must be included in advertising. And elsewhere, advertising has not been banned in any information channels; in this sense, Estonia is the first case. In addition, there was further discussion on what would happen if these conditions were violated. The liability for the infringement would lie with the advertiser, the carrier and the carrier. It was also pointed out that alcohol, for example, has not caused such problems. Last but not least, the idea of creating a register of persons subject to debt has been theorised. It was said that there is a private payment disruption register in Estonia, where everyone can search out the information of interest. So there is no register of persons as such, but there have been thoughts about it, and then everyone can wonder if they would like it or not. There was no decision on this in the Commission, and I personally think that we will not see such a register of persons with a loan obligation at least soon. Now for procedural decisions. There is a proposal from the Commission to put the draft on the agenda for today, which has also been put forward, and a proposal to close the first reading (the decision was consensual), as well as a proposal to set the deadline for amendments at 3 a.m. on 9 January 2015 (also a consensual decision). Thanks, everybody!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U443	Good waitress, there are some questions for you. Please, Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U444	Thank you. Honourable waitress! As a liberal, I too am concerned about any restrictions and regulations, especially those that restrict the freedom to conduct a business. And we know that these restrictions must be very well justified and proportionate. With regard to political advertising, we know that outdoor advertising is banned 40 days before the elections, but in reality it has not changed the big picture. Advertising is done earlier, advertising is done in other channels and, in fact, such a measure is relatively useless. What gives us the hope now that if we restrict credit ads in this area, television and radio, it will have an effect and this ad will not just move on the internet, on the street, or, I don't know, on direct sales?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U445	Thank you. If you start from the beginning, as you know very well as the Chair of the Economic Commission, having probably been there himself, the Committee on Economic Affairs has, in general, been on a liberal path. We have, in fact, promised advertising both in the area of justice and even in the area of medical services. If you come to political advertising now, there is indeed a paradox here. After all, there was talk of banning outdoor advertising, the decision was taken with a bulwark, but as a result, on the contrary, advertising campaigns were more expensive. To date, the police have also approached the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, saying that the valuable resources of the police should not be spent on chasing candidates and tents and measuring the size of the logo. That's what I agree with a hundred percent. I also find it absurd, especially when we say that the police already have little resources. However, no action has yet been taken in this regard, as no consensus has been found. As far as the effectiveness of a specific measure is concerned, we must certainly assess these analyses in the course of the procedure. On the other hand, in the case of alcohol advertising, we really do not see any irregularities. We can see that there has also been strong self-regulation in this sector. The Parties have discussed among themselves how they do what they do, how they advertise. So, on the basis of alcohol advertising, restrictions have had some effect. Whether it affects people's lending is, I find it very difficult to say. I think that public space may become more moral, a little more polite and cleaner, and people will hopefully make loan decisions less emotionally. Maybe this bill will have that effect. I certainly hope so, because otherwise I wouldn't be handling this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U446	Kalev Kallemets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U447	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, With regard to the same issue of consumer credit, I was a substitute yesterday in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, where the credit institutions' law and procedural changes had been introduced: how consumer loans were issued and what would make this process significantly more effective. Do you think that we should actually look at both draft laws regulating the sector or services in question as a whole, in a collection?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U448	Thank you. I can only see as a justification for this question that you were probably on your way to the hall when you saw the agenda where there was an interesting point in it. Both Minister Urve Palo and I considered all this as a comprehensive package. All these measures, including those discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, in the Committee on Legal Affairs and in the Committee on Economic Affairs, in particular this draft Advertising Act, are part of the comprehensive package of the Government Coalition. The aim is that all of these consumer credit or, let's say in a simplified way, fast-lending companies would be under the supervision of the Financial Supervision Authority, would have a ceiling on the cost of credit and, in the same way, would have an overview of advertising. This draft is actually part of a larger set that is simply divided between the four drafts.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U449	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions, no more liberals, no more conservatives, no more anyone else. The commission has also made an important decision on the draft so that the first reading should be completed. I'll prescribe a draft... But first I ask whether the representatives of the political groups want to open negotiations. No, I don't. I will set the deadline for the submission of 780 amendments on 9 January 2015 at 3 p.m. The first reading is closed and the 16th item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U450	Let's move on to item 17: First reading of the draft law amending traffic law and state fees law initiated by the Government of the Republic. Urve Palo, Minister of Economy and Infrastructure of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U451	Dear Vice-Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, The Government of the Republic has submitted to the Riigikogu for adoption a draft law amending the Traffic Act and the State Fees Act. Its main objectives are as follows: Firstly, to implement an action programme of the Government of the Republic to analyse the feasibility of allowing bicycles, mopeds and electric cars to a public transport lane. According to the draft, public transport lanes could also be allowed for electric vehicles in order to popularise their use. Since electric vehicles are only a marginal part, namely 0.12% of vehicles registered in Estonia, the change would not have a significant impact on public transport traffic. At the same time, the right to decide on the admission of bicycles and mopeds to public transport lanes is granted to the road owner. As bicycles and mopeds are slower than public transport, this leads to the need to pass them. It is therefore necessary to decide for each section of the road whether it is safe to allow bicycles and mopeds to a public roadway. This can only be done by the owner of the tea. The second objective is to implement the measures foreseen in the national road safety programme. The draft allows for the introduction of automatic traffic monitoring systems installed on urban roads. Examples include cameras at the intersection of Tallinn Kristiine, which allow to detect speeding, crossings with prohibited traffic lights, and unauthorised use of public transport lanes. In order to process the infringement data, the Road Administration has established the necessary database and the Police and Border Guard Board will handle the infringements. In particular, the costs of maintaining traffic surveillance systems must be borne by the installer. The third objective is to increase road safety for children. According to the current law, a group of children can move on the sidewalk and, in the absence thereof, on the road bed. Since most city streets have footpaths or bicycle and footpaths, children's groups need to move on the road bed. The amendment also allows a group of children to travel on a road or on a bicycle and a road where traffic is, of course, safer. The safety of young children in vehicles without safety belts shall also be enhanced. From now on, a child under 3 years of age may not be carried in a passenger car or truck in a seat without a seat belt. The requirement is necessary to ensure the safety of young children both in the event of an accident and in the case of sudden braking in daily traffic. The fourth draft aims at simplifying the requirements for carrying and applying for documents. An example can be given when driving licences are completed after examination or when driving licences are exchanged: at that time the vehicle can be driven without a driving licence, the entitlement to drive is certified on the basis of the data in the driving register. It will also be possible to prove the right to instruct a person who learns to drive a motor vehicle on the basis of traffic register data in the future and the right to drive a cyclist will not have to carry the document. It is therefore no longer mandatory to carry a driving licence issued to cyclists in Estonia. The use of driving licences issued abroad in Estonia is also facilitated. The requirement for an international driving licence shall be waived if the person's driving licence is accompanied by entries either in Latin or reproduced in that document. The driving licence must also contain information on the vehicles the person is entitled to drive. In addition, in cases where a driving licence does not comply with these requirements, a notarial translation as an alternative to an international driving licence shall be allowed. This allows for driving, for example, when a person has not applied for an international driving licence in his/her home country. The fifth objective is to improve the availability of public services. To this end, the current principle that a fee-paid operation may be performed by an authority only after receipt of the state fee is amended. The current requirement extends, for example, the time of the Road Administration's operations in the traffic register and may lead to misunderstandings in the verification of the receipt of the state fee. The current regime also causes fees that may vary several times when paying with a bank card. According to the bill, the holder of the state fee may perform the necessary act before the receipt of the state fee if the amount of the state fee is booked on the relevant account. It's just like when you pay at a store with a card, you don't have to get the money into the store's account first, and the buyer doesn't have to wait, the grocery basket is in his hand, he can go home. The amendment thus allows for a better public service. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U452	Minister, thank you very much. You have quite a few questions. Liisa-Ly Pakosta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U453	Thank you very much. While driving in public transportation as a parent, the questions raised by § 36 (6) and (7) are raised. I do not understand whether I am allowed to hold two children under the age of 7 only in the front seat of the bus or in the first row of seats and whether the drafters have really thought that if, for example, there is a child under the age of three and five, it would be safer if this five-year-old was standing by himself? Is it safer for him to sit on his mother or father's lap? Why such strange limitations?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U454	To be honest, I cannot answer that question in concrete terms right now. If you wish, I can send a reply in writing. That is a very specific question. But the experts have prepared this bill, but it should be safe, I suppose. Unfortunately, I don't know how to give a specific answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U455	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U456	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I listened to your report, and I had this idea. You mentioned that children under the age of 3 should not be driven on the back bench if there are no seat belts. I don't recall any car brands with no seat belts. Can you name one?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U457	To be quite honest, I was thinking the same thing when I read this point. Most cars today have seat belts. This requirement is in the event of a vehicle having no safety belts in the rear seat for any reason. I'm not gonna give you any better examples, and I'm gonna get lost in stamps, and then it's embarrassing. But let's just say that the existence of this point doesn't hurt anyone, it eliminates any chance. After all, the law now says that if there are no safety belts in the back seat, there is no obligation to use them. But most cars do, that's right. It is simply this amendment that states that if there really is a car that does not have safety belts, a child under 3 years of age should not be driven with it. That's for the safety of the child.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U458	Tõnis Kõiv, your turn, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U459	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary! I have listened carefully to your report. At the very beginning, you said that since the share of electric cars in the overall number of vehicles is small, allowing them to travel on the public transport route does not hinder the movement of public transport vehicles. What do you think the share of electric cars in the overall number of vehicles must increase to prevent public transport from happening because of their number?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U460	Today, 1143 electric vehicles are known in Estonia. By way of comparison, there are just over 3100 taxis in Tallinn and taxis are allowed to drive on the bus lane, yet there is no indication that they would obstruct traffic there. So even if the number of electric cars tripled, we still wouldn't understand that they're interfering with traffic.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U461	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U462	Thank you. Madam Minister! You were talking about the possibility of installing automatic traffic surveillance systems on the roads of settlements after this bill has been passed as a law. Right now, they're all on national highways, I get it. But here we are talking about local government being involved, and I have some related questions. Who installs these devices and is it done at the request of or at the request of the local government? And what are the consequences of the infringements? Where's the fine money going?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U463	Cameras are one of the measures that local authorities can use to carry out their core tasks, including the management of traffic within their territory. For example, preference for public transport can be ensured if desired. The state does not go to the municipal territory to install these cameras. The municipality itself is responsible for managing local traffic. In the past, Kristiine, for example, had a problem with the municipality installing the camera for European money, but there was no way to get information about the offenders. Nor does the municipality have the right to pass fines. It has now been resolved in such a way that the Road Administration has developed the necessary information systems and, of course, also ensures their annual maintenance, which is about EUR 20000 per year, so no small amount at all. The Police and Border Guard Board is prepared to cover the relevant costs of the proceedings, all of which will be passed on. This cost is also around EUR 20000 per year. At the same time, this fine is received by the State. As regards the intersection of Tallinn Kristiine and the need to maintain the cameras, this departure is considerably lower than the costs associated with the state information system as well as the processing costs. Here we are talking about EUR 7000. But in any case, it is the municipality's right to install these cameras; it is not an obligation, but a right. And if there was no regulation in the past, what to do next, when the camera is installed, then now people who violate traffic rules will really be punished. According to this draft, the situation will change. After traffic has been breached, the information reaches the Road Administration first and then to the Police and Border Guard Board, which issues the fine.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U464	Thank you. Please, Liisa-Ly Pakosta, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U465	Thank you. I am also grateful for the written answer if there is no oral here. However, I will continue to ask about the children, more specifically about the children on a bicycle. Undoubtedly, we are all interested in preventing accidents, but the issue of bicycle licences has now been made even more difficult than it is now. I understand that if primary schools and upper secondary schools want to issue bicycle licences, they have to apply for an examination permit, etc. Traffic education at school is pretty good according to the new curriculum. Didn't you consider this option that riding a bike is just like swimming instruction in a basic school syllabus? Almost nothing should be added to this and the question would have been resolved?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U466	Whether it's been discussed in a task force somewhere, I can't tell you that. But don't you know that the suggestions you could learn and teach at school are very many and varied. Everything would be taught, but the school day is too short. Teaching cycling as part of physical education requires that all children have a bicycle. Not everyone may be interested in cycling. Nor can it be demanded that the school buys the wheels, which should ultimately be paid by the taxpayer. So there are a lot of questions. I would not now assess whether there should be a bicycle education at school so that it can be automatically licensed. I'd rather talk to you now. I can't give you any answers. And I repeat: I am not sure that this has been discussed in some working group.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U467	Please, Igor Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U468	Honourable waitress! This is about the United States of America. As time goes on, the more Americans we'll have those boys who come to protect us, specialists, etc. In this regard, we have raised an extremely acute problem with US driving licences. The point is that, according to this amendment, an American can drive in Estonia if he has an internal licence or an international driving licence issued by a competent authority. There is no authority in America that issues international permits. Lube issues Triple A, or American Automobile Association, which is a community organization and does not belong to any kind of institution. So the boys are driving around with state permits. And now here's the thing, depending on the policeman on the street, whether he's gonna admit it or not. Shouldn't we fix this, all the more so as I believe and very much hope that the number of American people will not decrease, but increase?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U469	If you have reservations and suggestions, then it is precisely time to propose improvements after the first reading. Why not?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U470	Thank you. Please, Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U471	Thank you. Dear Minister, I also asked for it in the Commission, but since the answer was a little confusing, I will ask again here. Has an agreement been reached with the city of Tallinn on the admission of electric cars to the public transport lane? It seems that they were in favour of it at some stage, but now suddenly they are no longer in favour of it at the final stage. Public transport routes are primarily located in Tallinn, and this issue concerns our capital. If Tallinn is strongly opposed to this, it is likely that Superman will put up new road signs that will allow you to travel on these roads only on the basis of some special permit for urban transport, and any effect will disappear.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U472	I can't confirm anything for anyone here with 100% certainty. There is no written agreement and opinions may be amended. But the way I see it, if the law has been passed in the Riigikogu, that a public car lane can be driven by electric car, then you can. This law should be beyond the regulations established by the local government. But we'll see if there's any suggestions from the Centre Party to prevent electric cars from being allowed on the public road. After all, the Centre Party is in power in Tallinn.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U473	Thank you. Please, Igor Gräzin, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U474	I have a very practical question. I listened carefully, but I didn't understand one thing. We're talking about the intersection of Kristiine. In general, I and many Black Mountainers travel across Kristiine intersection with a relatively loose wrist. It's known these boxes are standing there, but nothing's gonna happen. Now there's a startling news that I think they're working. Now, do you have to start driving according to the lines that have been drawn down, or just as it has been so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U475	I understand they're gonna work the way they're supposed to. And if anyone has broken traffic, after the honourable Riigikogu has passed this law, the corresponding message will arrive at home.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U476	Thank you. Please, Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U477	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, My colleague, Tõnis Kõiv, was interested in the limit on which we could allow electric cars to travel to public transport lanes. How much is this number? I remember that the opposite was also the case in the Commission, and that was the case in Norway. Maybe you'll talk about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U478	Indeed, during the summer I was in Norway, where I met the Norwegian Minister for Transport, among other things. In Norway, electric cars are allowed to ride public transport lanes. For example, in Oslo, traffic is much more frequent than in Tallinn, and this permit has indeed been a very large source of motivation for people. Many families have several cars, an electric car that drives in the city, and a car that drives longer journeys. Rich people, rich country. The result is that there are so many electric cars on the public road that they are starting to wonder what to do now, whether they should change the law. This is the situation in Norway, but the wealth of Norway and the ability of its people to acquire cars are, of course, many times different from that of our people. There are still few electric cars in Estonia, that is a fact. At present, the state does not support their acquisition, and it is much harder for our people to buy them. There is even a risk that they will be much less acquired in the future, as the state will no longer subsidise. The fact that it is possible to use a public transport route could in some way be an additional incentive to acquire such a car. But let's be honest, Tallinn's congestion is far from as bad as in the major cities of the world. Should we ever catch up with Norway, new measures can be developed. There's nothing cut in stone in life.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U479	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister Urve Palo. Kristen Michal, member of the Economic Commission, has the floor as a co-report. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U480	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. So let's talk about the draft amendment of traffic law and state fees law 779. For the sake of the stenogram, I shall briefly summarise its content once again. As the Minister mentioned, there are a number of elements in the draft, which particularly attract attention. The bill is ambitious, with all sorts of changes. One important proposal is that public transport lanes can be used by electric vehicles. The aim is to popularise their use. The right to decide on the admission of bicycles and mopeds to public transport lanes shall be granted to the holder of the road. The owner of the road needs to determine whether bicycles and mopeds can travel on public transport lanes on a particular section, but their speed of movement is often different from that of public transport vehicles. As mentioned here, 1143 electric vehicles have been registered in Estonia, accounting for 0.12% of the total fleet. I repeat, everyone will understand that it is not a mass journey along public transport lanes. In addition, 611 electric vehicles have been registered in Harju County, as well as 1742 buses that can travel on these tracks, and 3100 taxis. So generally, the public transport lane cannot be overloaded. This is at least the near future forecast. What else is gonna change? The fact that the public transport lane is also allowed to be used on a special service vehicle, even if it is not a challenge but a ride. Perhaps the vehicle returns to get back faster and to be ready to travel on a new challenge, or it needs to be equipped, etc. As far as the mail Igor Gräzin sees at Kristiine intersection is concerned, many years ago the Transport Committee at the Economic Commission decided to set up this traffic camera in Tallinn. So far, it has stood there for beauty, for Igor Gräzin and for the pleasure of others, but now it should finally work when agreements are reached with Tallinn, who will manage which database. So this bill also recommends taking a step that way. One part of the draft is aimed at improving pedestrian safety. The Minister has already explained how an organized group of people will move in the future. The procedures for applying for and carrying on physical documents will be simplified. This is made possible by the introduction of new e-services. It will also facilitate the use of driving licences issued abroad in Estonia, which have already been asked about. And the last innovation that comes from life itself is that the payment of the state fee does not have to wait for the money to be received into the account of the recipient. The necessary steps can be taken immediately so that there is no unnecessary delay. The draft was discussed in depth in the Commission. For example, it was the same use of cameras inside the city that still received the fine. It also examined how to share the maintenance of the relevant database. We were told that the fine money would be paid into the state budget, and the Minister explained everything else here. Some questions were asked about the categories of vehicles and whether the municipality has the right to restrict the admission of electric cars to the public transport lane. The answer is no. The law will allow it, the car must be fully electric, not a hybrid car. There was also a question that the Ministry of the Interior had, in the past, questioned whether it could control what kind of drive the car is. The Ministry of the Interior has now given its consent and confirms that this verification is possible. Excellent decisions were taken: to put the draft on the agenda of the plenary session, to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments be set at 12 January. All the decisions were consensual. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U481	Let's get to the questions. Please, Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U482	Thank you. Good waitress! As a moped owner, I am pleased to be able to use public transport routes in the future. But I have this suspicion that since the consent of the owner of the road is a prerequisite, this good idea may not be realised. Compared to electric cars and mopeds, there was an argument that the speed of mopeds was not enough and that they could prevent buses from traveling. In fact, mopeds travel more or less as fast as electric cars. Does it not make sense to allow mopeds to use a public transport route without the consent of the road owner, as it will apply to electric cars?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U483	We can discuss this in theory, but since there is a certain difference between the right to drive and the right to drive a moped, and generally the moped is driven a little more freely than when driving a car, based on my personal brief experience, I think it should be thought through carefully. I suspect some people are riding their bikes even faster than some of the mopeds. We all remember the news that Andrus Ansip was riding a bike behind a car at a speed of 50 km/h or 70 km/h. I think a lot of people are moving slower in town with a moped and a car. So this has to be discussed in the course of the draft law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U484	Please, Kalle Laane, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U485	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I understand that alarm vehicles have the right to use public transport lanes, and as we know, ministers and the President and Deputy Speaker of the Riigikogu are also allowed to drive alarm vehicles. Can they use public transport lanes too?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U486	Thank you. The draft law mentions a special service vehicle. I believe that ministers will not be in a hurry to complement equipment, as is the case with fire trucks and other special services vehicles. But we remember from history that there are people who have driven a minister's car on a public transport track, despite the fact that it is not allowed. They'll be able to reprimand it from the public.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U487	Thank you. Please, Tõnis Kõiv, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U488	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, I have a matter of practical life. In the morning's rush hour, in the evening's time, I have noticed in Tallinn traffic that it often happens that the bus does not travel on the public transport lane. Does the bus driver have a duty to use the public transport route rather than to drive on the second track and to keep behind the number of cars?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U489	I don't know that there's an obligation like that somewhere. I assume that in general, public transport drivers are people with full sense and, at least in Tallinn, these tracks are still very empty. On some intersections, I think these tracks are really messed up. Examples include new traffic management at the intersection of Pärnu road and Liivalaia. Every morning I see what a great drawing has taken place in Tallinn: the public transport track has been crossed at the intersection with the car track. In the morning, a sleepy head will have to figure out how to get through the buses, and the bus driver will have to figure out how to get through these great sleepy drivers. And tonight, it's exactly the same story. So there's still a lot to do in traffic management.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U490	No further questions. Thank you, Kristen Michal! Do you want to open negotiations? Please, Liisa-Ly Pakosta!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U491	Ladies and gentlemen, My speech is more focused on the Committee on Economic Affairs, but also on the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. I was inspired by Rein Lang's speech right here on the remote when we discussed an extremely exciting subject, the permissible drink of the recreational craft drivers. I remember my colleague, Rein Lang, came here on the remote and described how a small ship was bought in America. When he asked what kind of permits, documents, and other things needed to buy there, he was surprised to be looked at and told to pay the money, take the ship, and start driving. With all this introduction, I wanted to get to school kids' bike licenses. We have written in more detail in this bill, or rather not us, but the Ministry has written it in more detail on how schoolchildren should obtain a bike driver's license. I do not know how many of the 101 members of the Riigikogu had a bike driver's license when they were 10 to 18 years old. If we look at what's going on these days, I'll pay tribute to the Ministry of Education and Science. The new curriculum and new teaching materials will include, from first class onwards, and will repeat the instructions for the entire basic school period on how to behave in traffic, which means one or the other traffic sign, how to observe different risks. In fact, the theory also includes a set of rules regarding cycling. In general, the burden on parents to raise a child has increased all the time. Getting a bike driver's license means that the parent has to look for a place where the licence is issued. This is if the school where the child is studying has not applied for a special permit to issue these permits. If the school has not done so, the parent must find a training centre to send the child. Of course, you have to pay for it, even though your child learns the same thing that has already been done in school. Of course, the question remains whether a child should learn to ride a bicycle in order to get a driver's license or whether he or she does not need that skill. I'd leave it on the parents' conscience. I have also not noticed that children are taught to ride bicycles in training institutions that issue bike driving licences. No, it teaches how to interpret traffic signs, give a hand-to-hand signal, and how to behave generally in traffic. I cannot make a direct proposal here, but I call on the people responsible for the curricula of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of Education to sit down and discuss whether something can be added to the school curriculum or whether it is completely full. I would like to stress once again that children already go through this whole school several times. The minister thought that in this case the school should buy bicycles for all students. The school does not build a swimming pool for itself when children need to be trained to swim. At the same time, we have realised that teaching swimming is crucial to saving life, and we have done quite well with this much more costly undertaking in the education system. Once again, no children are taught how to ride a bicycle in the institutions that issue bike licences. This whole process has been super-complicated. Perhaps, however, it is possible to think a little about parents and achieve a situation where children from all rural corners of Estonia can learn the basics of cycling at school. Once again, I stress that to a large extent they are already receiving this, but a witness is also needed. The decision whether to allow your child to really crank two pedals could be left to parents. This is already the case in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U492	Thank you very much. Any more calls? No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 779. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at 12 noon on 2 January 2015.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U493	We have already reached item 18. This is the first reading of the draft law amending the Rail Law, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 806. Mr Urve Palo, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, would you like a speech chair?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U494	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Hello again, ladies and gentlemen. The Railway Act proposes the following amendments on the basis of the draft. Firstly, the passenger rights and obligations imposed on rail passengers will be updated. The rights of rail passengers are governed by Regulation No 1371/2007 of the European Parliament and of the Council on rail passengers' rights and obligations, of which Article 2 (4) and (6) allow Member States to introduce temporary derogations. It allows derogations to be granted for a number of articles for a period of five years, which can be extended twice. Article 2 (3) of Regulation (EC) No 1371/2007 further lists the articles to which no derogations may be granted, the requirements of which were applicable in all Member States immediately after its entry into force on 3 December 2009. The amendment updates the existing list of derogations established in Estonia, which was adopted in Estonia five years ago. Firstly, I will talk about which exceptions we are now giving up, and then about which exceptions remain. The amendment waives the derogations concerning the provision of travel information to train passengers (Article 8); informing a disabled person when a train access restriction is applied (Article 20 (2)); ensuring access to the platform, railway station and rolling stock for persons with reduced mobility (Article 21); providing assistance to persons with reduced mobility on board and on board and on boarding and disembarking (Article 23); conditions for granting assistance, including the obligation for persons with reduced mobility to inform at least 48 hours in advance of their need to receive assistance on board the train (Article 24) and the payment of compensation for damage to or loss of assistance to persons with reduced mobility due to the railway undertaking (Article 25). These are the exceptions that we are giving up. The following derogations shall continue to apply to domestic passenger transport: First of all, in accordance with Article 10, I would like to mention the alignment of the travel information and booking system with the technical specifications of the European Union interoperability, as this will require major investments. Next, in accordance with Article 13 (2), an advance payment of EUR 21000 should be paid by the railway undertaking in the event of the death of the passenger, regardless of who was guilty. Article 15 provides that, irrespective of the existence of fault, the railway undertaking must always assume responsibility for the passenger, for example in the event of a delay or missed journey. Pursuant to Article 18 (2), (4) and (5), in the event of delay, free of charge food and drink shall be offered to passengers for up to 60 minutes and, where appropriate, a hotel place. Article 22 imposes an obligation to assist persons with disabilities at railway stations and may require additional staff to be employed. In the case of international passenger transport to third countries, derogations shall apply in respect of Articles 10, 13 (2) and 15, 16, 17 governing the arrangements for reimbursement of the ticket price in the event of delay of one hour or more. There have been delays of more than an hour due to delays in border control from time to time. In short, this complicated regulation. The list of railway workers responsible for railway safety and railway traffic management who are subject to separate health requirements and procedures for carrying out health surveillance shall be specified. The amendment concerns the health requirements of railway workers and concerns the updating and clarification of the wording in the light of the regulation of Commission Decision 2011/314/EU laying down common European Union health standards for some railway workers. One amendment concerns infringement proceedings by the European Commission No 2013/2040 concerning Directive 2004/49/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on safety on the Community's railways, amending Council Directive 95/18/EC on the licensing of railway undertakings and Directive 2001/14/EC on the allocation of railway infrastructure capacity and the levying of charges for the use of railway infrastructure and safety certification. The latter is the so-called Railway Safety Directive. The European Commission refers to the fact that the safety authority of one Member State cannot withdraw Part A of the safety certificate issued by another Member State. Estonia agrees with the Commission's complaint and this amendment brings the provision into line with Article 10 (5) (4) of Directive 2004/49/EC, which provides that the safety authority shall inform the safety authority which issued Part A of the safety certificate without delay if it withdraws Part B of the safety certificate. In addition, the European Commission refers to the fact that in certain cases, i.e. where the safety authority has become aware of this in the course of its supervision, the safety authority must inform the safety investigation authority of the accident. Estonia agrees with the Commission's complaint and the provision is now brought into line with Article 21 (3) of Directive 2004/49/EC. The last amendment is to establish the duration of the timetable period and the associated deadlines in accordance with Directive 2012/34/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a single European railway area. There is a problem with the dates of the timetable period, since § 54 (2) of the Railway Act provides for the beginning of the timetable period on the last Sunday of May and, finally, the Saturday preceding the last Sunday of May of the following year. In reality, however, the start of the timetable period depends on how CIS and Baltic infrastructure managers agree on the dates of the timetable period. For example, in 2014, the traffic schedule period started on 1 June. As the duration of the timetable period and the associated time limits are governed by Directive 2013/34/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a single European railway area, the wording of the railway law is aligned with the regulation set out in Annex VII to that Directive. This regulation allows infrastructure managers, where appropriate, to set their own dates for the start and end of the timetable period. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U495	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Minister Urve Palo. I would like to speak with Deniss Borodichi, Member of the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U496	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed this draft at its meeting on 8 December. The Commission was invited to present the draft by Minister Urve Palo and Indrek Laineveer, Head of the Railways and Roads Department of MKM. Both gave a very thorough overview of this draft, which mainly concerns the transposition of European Union legislation into the Estonian legal area. The content of the draft was understandable to the members of the Commission, but some practical questions arose during the debate. I'll get some of them here. The first question was the State's obligation to passengers in the event of a disruption. The Minister replied that, as a rule, passengers would be offered the opportunity to use other means of transport in the event of a train failure and that compensation would be paid in the event of a delay, regardless of whose fault it happened. According to the statistics provided by Elron, they have 800 exits per month and 99% of them are on time. Compared to Finland and Sweden, we have a significantly lower number of technical failures. The second and more practical question was raised by the Member of the Commission, Jaan Õunapuu, who asked about the monitoring of passenger rights and ticket sales. He gave an example of problems relating to the marking of seats for first-class wagons. As a result of this debate, the Commission supported Mr Õunapuu's proposal that in future the train driver should inform passengers about previously purchased tickets and ask not to occupy purchased seats. Elron will introduce MKM to the operation of the ticket system in January next year. Following this long and substantive debate, the Commission decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 17 December and that the first reading be closed. It was also important to decide to propose a deadline for amendments of 5 January 2015 at 12 noon. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U497	Any questions? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Deniss Borodich. Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. The commission's proposal was to conclude the first reading of draft 806. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at 12 noon on 5 January 2015.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U498	Our next item is the first reading of the Act amending the Emergency Act, the Public Transport Act and the State Fees Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Once again, I would like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U499	Dear Vice-Chairman, Good ambassadors! This draft amends three laws. First of all, I mention the Emergency Act, which lays down the functioning of shipping between the Estonian continent and the large islands as a vital service. Secondly, the draft concerns the Public Transport Act, which mainly introduces two types of changes. It adds regulation to allow direct award of contracts for the provision of public service obligations for the provision of passenger transport services in accordance with the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council. The law also complements the regulation of regular passenger transport licences, as is the case in bus and coach transport. Thirdly, the State Fees Act is amended, supplemented by provisions concerning the obligation to pay the State fee for the examination of path licence applications and changes to timetable applications. It is important to stress that the purpose of the amendment of the Emergency Act is to provide the State with possible emergency measures, i.e. emergency measures. Even then, people must be able to exercise their fundamental rights. The changes are merely 'back-up plans', which we do not consider likely to materialise. At the same time, the State must also be prepared for worst-case scenarios so that specific measures can be taken in the event of an emergency situation. Let me first talk about the main objectives of the amendment of the Emergency Act. Firstly, the operation of passenger ferry traffic between Saaremaa, Muhumaa and Hiiumaa is added to the list of vital services. Pursuant to § 38 (5) of the Emergency Act, § 2 (1) of Regulation No 16 of the Minister of the Interior of 8.06.2010 "Guidelines for the preparation of risk analysis on business continuity', a vital service is a service which is essential for the organisation of vital social activities, health, safety, security and the economic and social well-being of people. According to this definition, ferry connections between Estonia's large islands and the mainland must also be considered a vital service. It is the duty of the State to ensure a consistent, stable, safe, high-quality and economically efficient link between the islands and the continent. The ferry connection is the only way to bring goods both to the islands and to deliver local production to the mainland. Ferry connections are also almost the only way of transporting people, because they can also meet needs that alternative air connections cannot take into account. There are few people on scheduled flights between islands and the mainland, and it is not possible for aircraft to carry cars and larger quantities of goods. Therefore, ferry connections are vital for the preservation of people's freedom of movement as well as of the economic activities of the islands. This is why ferry connections with the islands must be included in the list of vital services, as there are rail transport, including the operation of public passenger transport. Until now, ferry connections were not included in the Emergency Act, while they include the operation of public transport within the municipality or city as a vital service. The operation of the country's main and supporting roads is also referred to as a vital service in the Emergency Act. In view of the logic, the same vital service is the operation of ferry connections between the mainland and the islands. In principle, ferry connections can be considered an extension of state roads and the link between the mainland and the islands is as vital as the main roads of any other country. In order to ensure that ferry connections function, it is important to keep in mind both waterways, ports and passenger ships which, as a whole, ensure ferry connections. Setting the operation of ferry connections between the mainland and the large islands as a vital service also gives public authorities the possibility to intervene in certain exceptional cases in the operation of ferry connections. The provision of ferry services must be continuous, only then will people have the opportunity to realise their fundamental rights. Secondly, I will present the main objectives of the amendment of the Public Transport Act. Firstly, the possibility to conclude direct contracts is established for the provision of services for the carriage of passengers by inland waterway and in the territorial waters of the Republic of Estonia in accordance with Regulation No 1370/2007 of the European Parliament and of the Council. Although the mandatory scope of the Regulation is road and rail traffic, it provides for the possibility that it may also be applied in water traffic and is optional for the country. The right to conclude direct contracts in ferry traffic, as stated in Article 5 of that regulation, is laid down. The direct award of a contract is the award of a public service contract under Article 1 of the Regulation to a particular public service provider without prior competitive tendering. Direct contracts allow passenger transport between the Estonian islands and the mainland to be organised in a more flexible and stable manner. As a result, keeping in touch does not depend solely on the success of the procurement procedure. However, it will be applied in exceptional cases where the procurement procedure fails for any reason or it is not reasonable to organise it in the light of market conditions. Direct contracts can be concluded with a legally separate entity over which the competent authority exercises control, i.e. with a controlled company of the State or local government. The "in-house" transactions have therefore been taken into account. Direct contracts can be awarded as an emergency measure in the event of interruption or imminent danger to the provision of a service and the duration of such contracts may not exceed two years. According to Article 5 (4) of the Regulation, it is possible to conclude a direct contract where it concerns the provision of public passenger transport services of less than 300000 km per year. Secondly, the Public Transport Act is complemented by the regulation of liner licences in water traffic, as it makes it possible to better regulate the operation of regular passenger transport on commercial grounds and to distinguish commercial journeys from public service journeys. According to the regulation, domestic regular services in water traffic can be operated either on the basis of a regular service permit or a public service contract. This ensures that the State has an overview of all persons operating the regular service. If the State considers it necessary, a public contract shall be awarded in order to find the carrier on a particular route and to award him a public service contract. If the State has not tendered or awarded a public service contract for the operation of a particular route, the person shall have the possibility to operate a regular service on the basis of a regular service licence. Exceptions shall be made when a path permit is not required. Where the carriage of passengers is carried out on an individual basis, the application for a line authorisation is not justified as it is not a regular route. It is also not appropriate to require that carriers operate a ship carrying up to 12 passengers at a time. In that case, it is not a passenger ship. The regulation of the operating licence is planned to enter into force on 1 January 2016. Regulation of line authorisations is necessary in order to ensure that, on publicly supported routes, carriers operating on a commercial basis without the knowledge of the State may arise alongside a carrier performing passenger transport under a public service contract. By offering a service under other conditions and uncontrolled conditions, this could significantly jeopardise the ticket revenues of an existing public regular service and could result in the need to increase public support unexpectedly. In particular, the risk of non-controlled commercial transport is more evident during the peak season if the number of passengers is the highest and all possible ticket revenues as well. In view of the budgetary planning process, such a situation could, on the one hand, undermine the balance of the state budget and make the entire long-term budgetary strategy inadequate. In summary, this situation may jeopardise the stable operation of ferry connections in the long term. In order to control commercial transport, the state currently does not have a mechanism to ensure regular service and freedom of movement for people. A commercial carrier can theoretically one day no longer travel and leave people in trouble. Thus, there may be a risk that people will not be able to get to the island or leave the island. According to line regulation, this option disappears and the carrier is obliged to operate the route on a fixed schedule. On the basis of the line authorisations, commercial shipping journeys would be carried out more systematically, prudently, taking into account all existing conditions and interactions. This is a preventive measure where the State takes the opportunity, not an obligation to intervene in the organisation of regular services, if necessary, in order to ensure that passenger needs and demand are taken into account. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U500	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U501	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Some time ago, there was an ad at the Port of Virtsu like "The vegetarians are the critters." By introducing a parallel to this bill, I would like to say that I think this bill is more than a scumbag. Why? I am thinking in particular of this aspect, which concerns compliance with the conditions of the Emergency Act and the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior in regulating the crisis. The Ministry of the Interior has not approved the draft. The Ministry of the Interior explained in a letter explaining the reasons for the non-coordination of the draft, that the forced use measure could not be applied already on the grounds that Väinameri Liin OÜ or other ship owners did not wish to organise passenger transport. Do you agree with the position that the Home Office had in its reply letter?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U502	Thank you. I understand that the main argument of the Ministry of the Interior was that they still believe that, if ferry traffic between the mainland and the large islands is interrupted for some reason, it is possible to issue an order to continue the provision of a service of general interest for a period of up to nine months or to expropriate real estate. However, the Ministry of Economic Affairs considers that this measure is insufficient. A similar claim can also be made, for example, on the basis of a public service contract and the performance of the contract. In addition, it is a measure which may not be realised. It's too soft and time-consuming. In the event of non-compliance, it would indeed be possible to expropriate real estate pursuant to § 35 of the MüüS. But we believe that expropriation is a disproportionately harsh measure because it is absolute and, if it is implemented, the person will ultimately lose his property. It is also a very long process, which may not ensure that the vital service is restored very quickly. There were differences of opinion. We found that if ferry traffic were on the list of vital services, such as rail traffic and maintenance of roads, this would be a more proportionate measure and also apply more quickly. In that case, no property will be expropriated, but will be used temporarily.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U503	Thank you. Please, Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U504	Thank you. I have two questions. I can probably ask you one at a time. The first concerns the definition of ferry traffic as a vital service, which in itself is perfectly understandable. The question is, in what form is the service to be provided. Is the state forcing the current carrier to do this for any reason? If so, does the carrier have to do so on the same barges that are new and are currently on the line, or may he do so on some other basis to still provide this vital service? The second question is what is the practical reason that forces us to change the regulation of commercial transport. I myself travel very often between Saaremaa, everything seems to work, and it is very flexible when in distress, the extra barges come on the line. Why should we necessarily ban it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U505	The first question concerned how this service should be provided, what ships should be, etc. The law does not explicitly state whether or not the same ferry is required, it states that the service must still be guaranteed. People must be able to move, goods must move. In what way is it ensured that the same ships or other ships are not covered by the law? Now the question of commercial lines. The fact is, if we take the connection between Saaremaa and the mainland for example in the summer, we are constantly monitoring the completion of the ships at the Ministry of Economic Affairs. According to the need, the Ministry has always updated the charts to meet demand and ordered additional trips. When we look at the summer period, especially Midsummer Day, it is feared that long queues of cars will be formed. In fact, during Midsummer Day, the ferry travels as often as possible, traveling back and forth all the time, it doesn't matter at all. By the way, new ferry ships are flying somewhat faster and so it can be expected that the situation will improve further in the future. But now physically no more ferries can dock and the country has always ordered a maximum number of trips. It's not like if there were commercial lines on the side, they'd be carrying, but the state wouldn't pay the money. Our log shows that in the summer, when an existing operator has set aside its commercial line, it is so that at those moments when no additional dishes have been ordered and there are no queues, the result is not to solve the problem of queues, but simply to tighten the schedule. This is a time when there are more passengers and the state could also make more money, because every passenger pays. If it comes next to a commercial line that picks up passengers before a'state ferry' comes, the country's ticket revenues will, unfortunately, decrease. Commercial lines will only work if they are profitable. They do not operate in winter, autumn and spring, but the state must ensure a consistent service at all times. At the same time, the State must be able to say that if it really makes sense to start commercial routes, it will give this opportunity. The state does not want to bully people, but it must provide a year-round service, to the extent that the state budget is planned. We want to insure ourselves that simply because commercial lines are interfering in a short period of time, the revenue of the state will be reduced. We don't want to ask for more money from the budget at the end of the year. It was a long and confusing explanation, but that's the reason. The State must have the opportunity to state whether or not commercial lines are needed. Another thing that is regulated is the problem that a commercial line, like a public service, sells tickets and people go somewhere. For example, there have been cases of people being transported to an island near Tallinn, but this ship does not bring them back. And because the tickets have not been sold enough to benefit the carrier. People get into trouble on the island. With this regulation, it is possible for the State to provide that, if an obligation is made to provide a particular service during a period, it must indeed always be done, not according to its wishes. The weather may, of course, be volatile and no one can oppose it, but it must be objective reasons why it is suddenly decided not to provide the service.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U506	The next questioner is Deniss Borodich.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U507	Thank you, good minister. I have this practical question. The explanatory memorandum to the draft law states that if there is a disaster in the provision of a vital service, i.e. a serious disruption of the service and a long-term disruption, the government can declare an emergency situation which gives the right to take the ship into forced use and to impose it for an indefinite period of time. The Emergency Act provides that a state of emergency is to be declared when there is an urgent need to do so, if it is possible that it is a violation of fundamental rights. Could you describe what the implementation of the forced order in practice looks like to ensure ferry connections? And what events could provide a legal basis for the compulsory use of ferries?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U508	We have a law stating when there is an emergency and when there is an emergency. It's a long list, I'll see. A disaster within the meaning of this Act shall, in particular, be defined as a major accident or accident or any other event having similar effect, in particular major chemical, biological or radioactive contamination of the environment, etc., as well as serious consequences and long-term disruption of the performance of a vital service. Any other event having a similar effect, which causes the continuity of a vital service with serious consequences and long-term disruption, may be any situation which causes such consequences. So far, nothing like this has happened in Estonia that it was necessary to declare an emergency situation in transport. I really hope that never happens. But you can't build a country for hope. It makes sense, just in case, to lay down by law that if it doesn't go as well as we want, what happens then. This bill is prepared just in case a situation arises that no one wants. It is very difficult to explain in detail how exactly action will be taken. I don't know exactly either. Then the law will be broken, and the law will be followed. The main thing is that the law gives the state the opportunity to say to the owners of the ferry that we have an emergency and, until this is resolved, the state is obliged to continue this service. Of course, this also entails obligations for the State to pay for the service. Everything will be reimbursed, and the law also provides for it very precisely.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U509	Thank you. Please, Liisa-Ly Pakosta!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U510	Thank you very much. From that last answer, I have a question, but I don't think I can ask the two at once. You said you didn't exactly know when a situation would happen where the ships would be taken away. I mean, that's a bit of a hesitation. Can you at least confirm that the ships ordered by the State will reach the route by 30 September 2016, will continue with the same level of service and that the draft before us has nothing to do with the possible suspicion that the country will not be ready?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U511	I can assure you that the draft has nothing to do with the termination of the ferry contract on 1 October 2016 and the construction of new ferry ships in Tallinn Port subsidiary. It is regrettable that ferry connections have not been included in the Emergency Act many years earlier, which should have been done a long time ago. But don't hesitate about it! Rail traffic is also covered by the Emergency Act as well as the continuation of public transport. I don't need to describe what this could be like. I really don't know in advance what kind of situation might occur just being a zillion possibilities. Life is unexpected and unpredictable. It is up to the state to recognise that there is now an emergency or an emergency, and then it must have the opportunity to take urgent action. If we're talking about ferry traffic, no one's taking the ferry from the owner. This would happen if we acted in accordance with a completely different law, which provides for the possibility of expropriation. There is an obligation to continue this service until the emergency is over. The State will not take over the service and will, of course, pay the provider a fee.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U512	Please, Arto Aas, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U513	Thank you. For the sake of the verbatim, I would like to make it clear that more than one ferry travels between Saaremaa and the mainland: in normal circumstances two and, if necessary, three. In fact, both Virtus and Kui meet the edge of the quay with them on both sides. It is certainly not a problem that they cannot physically travel there any more. And actually, from the point of view of consumers, it is very good that from time to time, if the order is very long for some reason, there will be an additional ferry on the line. And it doesn't really matter to a private customer whether it's a commercial or a regular transport. I wouldn't want that kind of flexibility to disappear from the market.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U514	Thank you. Of course, if it is technically possible that ferry ships can fit more into the port, then they can be granted additional licences. I agree with that. My point was that the state has ordered, for such times as long queues, the maximum traffic schedule available to the individual ships in operation. And we have also promised more commercial routes. The principle is precisely that commercial lines should not be created if there are no really long queues, but it is simply a temptation to serve on a commercial line, as the people will continue. People can set their time in about an hour, but a commercial line offers one ferry in half an hour. In fact, it would fit all the barges leaving in an hour. That's the idea. If the commercial line takes away half of the passengers and the country's ticket revenue decreases by that, then as a taxpayer, you should also worry about it. After all, the state guarantees the service not only during the summer months, when it is possible to live with the ticket revenue, but also during the whole year, at other times, by subsidising ferry traffic. In general, the state subsidises ferry traffic in such a way that one third of the money allocated comes from ticket revenue, two thirds are paid by the taxpayer. If commercial lines are unreasonablely added, in fact, the schedule is simply tightened, so that the ferry does not go one hour apart but more often, then the taxpayer will have to pay even more to ensure that the service is guaranteed throughout the year. It would then no longer be the case that two thirds of the required amount is paid by the State, it is already paying more as the revenue from the ticket decreases. All of this must be taken into account by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and, of course, reasonableness is a key word here. Not at all because of the tantrum, the state will not allow more commercial routes to come.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U515	Thank you. Please, Liisa-Ly Pakosta, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U516	Thank you. I'll go back to the same thing. I read pages 4 and 17 of the explanatory memorandum and discovered an interesting construction, which you briefly touched, but the explanatory memorandum opens the subject from a slightly different angle. On page 4, it states that when a private carrier provides a service on a ship with cheaper or more frequent timetables or more comfortable services or on a ship with additional services, it is dangerous. I quote: '... the impact of conveniences and incentives on long-term and stable ferry connections can be unpredictable, including significantly negative effects. " Normally people would think that everything said here would have a positive effect, especially in a situation where the carrier does not receive public support. On page 17, you have analysed the impact of this same restriction on private business and said that this effect is small. Why, then, do we put such an inefficient carrier on the line, everything that's listed above, it's like he's about to blow up?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U517	I thought I answered it, maybe you wouldn't listen, or I spoke vaguely. But I'll answer you one more time. It is the task of the State to ensure the link between the mainland and the large islands as well as the small islands throughout the year. We know that the average number of passengers per year is low, high seasons are summers. As a result, the State is paying a great deal more for shipping as a subsidy. As I said, in the ferry connections between the mainland and the islands, the state pays two thirds of the cost, one third of the passengers as ticket money. If the state allows private routes to operate in high seasons, if there are more passengers, for no significant reason, even though it does not win very much in terms of comfort and speed, it is not right. Anyone can plan their time a little bit. We're not talking about long queues. It is not right that a subsidised ferry in 15 minutes will have much less passengers because a private ferry 15 minutes earlier picked them up. This is what the state needs to increase its subsidy so that the ferry ships can travel all year round. As your taxpayer and as a member of the Riigikogu, you are certainly interested in planning the state's activities. We're making a budget here, and we're confirming it. If, during the high season, there are private suppliers who take passengers off the subsidised ship of the state without any special need, this budget, which you have confirmed here in the Riigikogu, is not correct. This must be increased and an additional budget must be made so that, even in winter, when there are few passengers, the state can pay for their transport. That's the point. But if there is a Midsummer Day or other major event, for example in Saaremaa, racing is very popular in the autumn, and there are a lot of people going to and coming from Saaremaa at the same time, then the state will put its ferries to maximum work and never prohibit commercial ships. It is normal in every way and will remain so in the future. At present, such a law also applies to bus and coach transport: alongside those regional routes subsidised by the State, commercial routes can only be opened if authorised by the State. Supported bus traffic throughout the year must not suffer as a result of passengers being taken away during the peak season. We haven't had that chance in the ferry industry so far. We want it to be. It doesn't have to be used unless it makes sense, but sometimes it makes sense and it's necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U518	Thank you. Please, Kalle Laane, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U519	Madam Minister, when you answered the previous questions, you argued that there was no risk that on 1 October 2016 ferry traffic would not continue at the same level as new ships. It's like it's okay. Consequently, I have a question that perhaps we could proceed with this draft more calmly. We would ensure that everything makes sense inside it, and the law would apply, for example, on 1 January 2017. Then it would seem on the outside that everything is okay. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U520	As I have already noted, we are listening to each other here today a little superficially. I said before that this law should have been passed a long time ago, years ago. I don't see any reason why we should stall today.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U521	Thank you. Please, Rein Lang!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U522	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Good Urve, this whole thing you're talking about today has nothing to do with the market economy. When I look at the title of this bill, the law on the amendment of the Emergency Aid Act, the objective of creating a regulation that recognises ferry connections as a vital service is logical and reasonable. Now you are proposing a new chapter in the same law concerning the regular passenger transport licence for water traffic. From this I read such an interesting scheme that if anything really happens to this public service, the one with whom the state has entered into a long-term contract will suddenly no longer provide this service. Anything can happen in life, and then it's in the interests of society that someone come quickly and start providing vital services. You actually want to propose, at the moment, such restrictions that no private operator can provide these services on a commercial basis, because three months is the deadline for the relevant permit procedure. Where does that make sense?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U523	Three months is the usual time limit for processing. I believe that if there is a crisis situation, the permits will also be processed more quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U524	Let's keep going. Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U525	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! You're building models like Tivoli's tour somewhere in the Lasnamäe car park. It has its own prices, and the carousels are set up where more people go. For some reason, I don't think that somewhere in the garage, the barges wait 11 months, the teams are ready, and when they come to the Saaremaa Rally, they go on the line. In my personal opinion, this is not quite an adequate construction. But right now, a private operator is also receiving grants. Why is the state so nervous that such laws need to be made?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U526	I said that this has long been the case in bus and coach traffic, and businesses consider it to be a normal regulation. The law works very well. If there is a national subsidised bus route, the commercial route must apply for authorisation to operate alongside it and, if justified, it will be granted by the State. If the State considers that it is not justified to simply take passengers off its subsidised route, the State will receive less money and this will put at risk the provision of bus services at other times of the year, the State will not grant any authorisation. We want this to be possible in shipping. On the other hand, it also protects consumers. The Ministry of Economic Affairs has received very specific complaints that people have sailed on larger commercial tickets to Vilsandi or other small islands, for example, and were allowed to pick them up, but they did not come at the time they were promised. On the mainland, enough people did not want to travel to the island, and the owner of the ship decided, for commercial reasons, that he would not go there. He didn't care that these people stayed on the island, and he thought that the country should come to the rescue now. This draft provides an opportunity to require that when a carrier receives a line authorisation, he is obliged to provide this service at all times. He gets that chance, but there's an obligation to people.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U527	Please, Deniss Borodich, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U528	Good minister! Here's the question. You rightly said that years ago the Emergency Act should have been adopted in this wording. I understand that when this draft was prepared, it was not clear what would happen after 2016, because the public procurement had not yet been carried out and there was no indication of what would happen to the ferry connection from 2016. But now this procurement has been carried out and, according to you, there is no risk that the ships of the Port of Tallinn will not travel after that date. You have brought a parallel to bus and coach traffic, but there are no public companies in bus and coach transport that provide the service. Are you really afraid that, even in the case of a state company, there might be a situation in which a forced order should be imposed? Maybe I've misunderstood and there's another reason.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U529	Rail traffic is also covered by the Emergency Act and most railways belong to the Republic of Estonia, it is not in the hands of the private sector. There's no direct connection. And until October 1st, 2016, when we do a little bit together, it's almost two years.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U530	Erki Arrow, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U531	I still stick to my conviction that the bus and the shipping line cannot be compared. We can buy a bus from any sales site, even tomorrow. The ships, as you said, are now being designed and, in two years' time, hopefully ready. In this sense, there is a difference, in any case, and there is no real direct parallel. You have mentioned on several occasions the risk that the carrier company, or in the future, would reduce the revenue of the state. But how does the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications work when there is thick ice and the iced tea moves across the sea to Saaremaa and Hiiumaa? Is iced tea also a competitor in ferry traffic who cuts his income?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U532	You know, ladies and gentlemen, it is surprising to me that you are so fiercely defending the commercial routes. Honestly! My personal understanding is that the members of the Riigikogu should primarily worry about the rational use of state money. Public money is taxpayers' money, and these services, whether a bus or a ferry, are vital services for people, which must be guaranteed throughout the year. However, private operators generally only operate during periods when profits can be made, so they only want to make trips in peak times. These are, however, times when national subsidised journeys would also be able to generate ticket revenues that could increase the schedule in periods of lower demand. An example of this is the activity of the Väinameriline. There, commercial trips have been made at precisely the times when the costs of making the trip have been covered by ticket money. However, there would not have been a lot of delays in failing to make these commercial trips. However, the State lost a significant part of the ticket revenue that could have been used to order additional travel in another period. It is important to note that indeed in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, ships are constantly monitored on the basis of ship logs, and, if necessary, the Ministry has always ordered additional trips to meet demand. In view of the budgetary planning process, the opposite situation could disrupt the balance of the state budget and make the entire long-term budgetary strategy inadequate. You're the one who's taking the budget here. Such a situation may jeopardise the stable operation of ferry connections in the long term. That's not what anybody wants in this hall. If there is such a situation that it really makes sense to set aside a commercial line, then that is what the country will do. But if the goal is simply a temporary withdrawal of ticket revenue, which would put ferry traffic all year round at risk, then we will not allow it. Because the revenue side of the state would not be what was taken into account, and it is certainly not in the interests of the taxpayer.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U533	Please, Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U534	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, First of all, in the interests of the protocol, I would like to clarify what Mr Aasa said and to state that there are no ferry-going ships between Saaremaa and the mainland. But my colleagues' questions show that we could use a little memory update. I therefore ask whether the provision of ferry connections as a vital service is some sort of whim over the last six months, or whether it was also a plan of earlier governments that simply could not or could not be realised.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U535	Thank you, my good colleague, for reminding me. I'd forgotten all about it in today's debate. I will now turn to the honourable IRL representatives and assure you that your party associate minister also had a plan to switch ferry traffic into the Emergency Act. For some reason, you didn't do it, but it was a wish. It is regrettable that we are only talking about this today, which should have been done many years ago. There's nothing here. Sorry for the expression. For the people who live on the island, this service is vital.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U536	Thank you. Please, Kalle Palling!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U537	Thank you. Dear Minister, I agree with you that, in fact, it is extremely regrettable that we have to deal with this issue here today and that the minister, who was in office for seven years, only condemns your actions. But I have a question that concerns the establishment of the same commercial lines. Couldn't the current routes work on commercial vessels, and the subsidy we pay would only be for those who live on the island because they need it the most? I say from the bottom of my heart that I come to Saaremaa once or twice a year and I could pay twice as much for a ferry ticket. Do we really need to subsidise ferry trips to and from the islands of all Estonians?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U538	Interesting question. Yes, in fact, two thirds of the cost is paid by the state and one third by the person himself. Islanders pay even less, they have a 50% ticket discount, if I remember correctly. So the human being on the mainland pays proportionally more anyway. But that's a wider question. It's about regional policy. If we look at the train traffic, the proportion is interestingly the same. One third of the cost is borne by passengers, and two thirds come from the subsidy so that we can take Elron's trains to Narva, Tartu or Orava or Pärnu. One might suggest that a person who lives in Squirrel could get a ticket with a discount or free of charge, and that the person who goes to that village would pay the full price. But then you might wonder if he's going to that village or if he's going to work. It's the same with ferry traffic. There are many tourists who travel to Saaremaa to spa or to enjoy nature or to tourist farms, and if the price of the ticket is very high, they may not go there. Then there will be fewer jobs in Saaremaa because there are no tourists. All these things are connected. But the question is interesting and this discussion can continue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U539	Thank you. Please, Rein Lang, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U540	Thank you, Mr President. It is perfectly understandable, understandable and very necessary that the ferry link between the islands and the mainland is recognised as a vital service. What is not understandable is that you are trying to include line licensing in the same draft. And I am horrified to see that there hasn't even been a development plan. And the reason is that it is incredibly urgent, that some crisis situation is, like, about to come. Now I ask directly what the Ministry of Justice thinks of the regulation, such as the proposed amendment of the Public Transport Act and its addition to Chapter 81 'Line Passenger Transport Permit for Water Traffic'.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U541	This bill has been approved by the Government of the Republic, and the only special remark was made by the Minister of the Interior. This concerned the provision of this vital service because he felt that it could also be organised under other law. Otherwise, the government was united.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U542	Thank you. Please, Kalle Palling, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U543	Thank you. I really think that this idea, which I had in my previous question, would deserve to be considered in future discussions. It is likely that both the foreign tourist you were talking about and the person enjoying domestic tourism will be able to buy a third or a half of the most expensive tickets a couple of times a year. Train traffic is a bit wider and difficult to measure. But that's it. My question is the same one that I put to you in the Committee on Economic Affairs, where I did not get a very clear answer. The issue is the emergency situation and the provision of services, in the case of islands, the connection to the mainland. What's it gonna look like in an emergency? Do the same ships have to continue on the same schedule? Or is it enough for the barges to walk, people to be transported, but the order of the ferry can be as long on a perfectly normal winter day as on Midsummer Day?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U544	Ladies and gentlemen, please let us meet this one-minute requirement. We'll have to deal with it in a minute at the most.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U545	The emergency is that when the trouble comes, the normal rules don't apply. There is no precise indication of how to operate, for example, when a busy schedule has to be on the train or when the roads have to be cleared, etc. The main thing is that the service must be guaranteed. That's my answer. If there is an emergency, there are special solutions depending on the specific situation. But the service must be guaranteed, i.e. people must get from the mainland to the island and vice versa, and the goods must move. Which ferry exactly and at what interval, it is not stipulated anywhere. We have to take action according to the situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U546	No further questions. Thank you very much to the Minister. I would like to speak with Jaan Õunapuu, member of the Committee on Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U547	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the draft at its regular meeting on Monday, 8 December. Minister Urve Palo, Director of the Maritime Service of the Aviation and Maritime Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, Merily Must, and Head of the Legal Department, Eva Vanamb, had been invited to the meeting and gave an overview of the objectives and content of the draft and answered the questions. This debate, which has been going on for almost an hour, highlighted in many respects all that we discussed in the Commission on 8 December, but since I, as rapporteur for the Commission, have to mark the topics which the Commission discussed, I will do so. I assure you that there was a lively debate in the Commission, where a number of questions and opinions were put. Let's start over. Attention was drawn to the fact that emergency regulation falls within the remit of the Ministry of the Interior. It was asked whether the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications had taken into account the comments made by the Ministry of Interior in the preparation of the draft. The answer was that the Ministry of the Interior disagreed with the coordination round, noting that the existing law, i.e. the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities, would suffice. The main distinction in the understanding of the two ministries is that the TÜS requires expropriation in the event of a disruption of the service of general interest, but under the Emergency Act expropriation is not necessary as there is a right to impose an obligation for a certain period. It must be said that rail traffic and the maintenance of the country's main and supporting roads are currently also regulated by the Emergency Act, but ferry traffic is unfortunately not. There was an interest in the provision of financial arrangements in the event of forced use. It was said that the rules of the standard service of general interest would apply first. The compensation for compulsory use is the same as for any public service compensation, i.e. the cost-based remuneration plus a reasonable profit. Who will pay for the breach of the contract if the carrier has another contract for the provision of the service in another country? The answer was that a certified cost would have to be paid according to the law and that it would also be possible to claim loss of income, but that they would have to be viewed separately depending on the circumstances. At international level, there are certain criteria applying to monopolies that take into account which profits are reasonable. The Competition Authority will not set a single reasonable profit rate, based on the practice of the Competition Authority and other countries to assess which profit is reasonable in a given situation. Now perhaps the most passionate subject, the subject of commercial transport. It was pointed out that the regulation of line authorisations was to be added that, if the carrier has entered into an obligation to carry out a commercial transport operation, he must in any case make planned journeys. Of course, it sounded like the inhabitants of the islands must be guaranteed a high-quality year-round service. The chairman of the committee, Mr Aas, asked about the restriction of competition, which has been mentioned several times in this Chamber today. The Ministry's answer was that if there was an offer that promised better quality, there would be no grounds for refusing to grant a line permit. And as the Minister has confirmed, and we were told in the Commission, that the Ministry is constantly monitoring the ship's occupancy on the basis of ship logs, and that, as appropriate, the state has also ordered more trips to meet demand. There was a question of what implementation and implementation of the forced order would look like in practice and what an emergency could be. The answer was that an emergency is, for example, when ferry connections are cut for a long time so that essential services and goods are available and the island's economic activities are paralyzed. If such a situation arises, an emergency situation will be declared and the State will take the necessary funds into compulsory use. Forced use is by its nature an administrative procedure. In case of forced use, it is not mandatory to ensure the former quality of the standard service, the aim being to resolve the emergency. Kalle Palling asked whether the cancellation of travel in aviation was regulated in the same way as the disruption of ferry traffic. The answer was that aviation has contractual terms and conditions on which the flight may be cancelled. A trip cancelled due to weather conditions is justified in both aviation and ferry traffic, but in the case of ferry connections, the trip must not be cancelled because it has not been sold at 50% or 100%. In case the carrier accidentally adds more trips at a time when there are no queues, he will withdraw the ticket revenue from the state, as has already been said today. Another question was asked which grounds the new law would apply to, is it only to the foundations registered in Estonia? The answer was that the requirement for registration in Estonia has not been included in the Act and in the event of an emergency, forced use will apply to all vehicles located on the territory of Estonia or in Estonian waters. However, the quality of the service does not have to be exactly the same as before, as I have already said. The last issue now: as a service of general interest within the meaning of the TsÜS, the right to request the continuation of the current service is prescribed to be nine months under the same conditions. In the event of a risk of disruption of economic activity, would this not be sufficient time? Answer: An injunction under the CFP may not be a sufficiently effective coercion; a more effective instrument is needed. At the same time, according to the draft, the State has the right to adopt a means of resolving or mitigating a real emergency and the emergency cannot arise from non-compliance with the precepts, but only from the specific consequences for the inhabitants of the islands. It was also expressed the view that a new law was necessary and it was noted that changes to the three laws should have been made earlier. It was also recalled that there was a risk of disruption of ferry traffic as early as 2006, when the public procurements carried out failed. The Commission decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 17 December 2014, i.e. today, to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments be set at 12 noon on 5 January 2015. All these decisions were consensual. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U548	Any questions for the waitress? It's all clear. Thank you, Jaan Apple Tree! Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. No negotiations will be opened. The commission's proposal was to conclude the first reading of draft 807. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at 12 noon on 5 January 2015.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U549	Our 20th item today is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Law on Explosives initiated by the Government of the Republic. Once again, I would like to ask for a presentation of the Chair's Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U550	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good ambassadors! I hope you can get rid of me soon, I've been here a long time. The draft law amending the Explosives Act transposes into Estonian law Directive 2013/29/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States relating to the making available on the market of pyrotechnic articles. The Directive has the effect of clarifying the obligations of manufacturers, importers and distributors of pyrotechnic articles in the Explosives Act. I will bring out three major changes. First, economic operators are obliged to keep for 10 years information on an economic operator who has supplied them with a pyrotechnic article or who has supplied it with a pyrotechnic article. The current regulation also required economic operators to keep this information, but it was not specified for how long. The amendment is necessary to ensure better traceability so that, in cases where a product proves to be non-compliant or dangerous, it is possible to locate such a product and, where appropriate, inform consumers or recover the product from the consumer. Operators need not start keeping a separate register or records for this purpose if the information concerned is, for example, found on delivery notes which are kept for a sufficient period of time. Secondly, categories I, II, III and IV of pyrotechnic articles are replaced by the symbols F1, F2, F3 and F4 respectively. Star F comes from the word fireworks. The amendment will ensure better differentiation from other categories of pyrotechnic articles. Thirdly, pyrotechnic articles of category P1 intended for vehicles, including airbag and belt pre-loading systems, are not made available to the consumer. These are products for technical purposes which may contain explosive explosive substances and which are required by manufacturers of cars or their safety devices or by other professional users who repair or change such safety equipment. The essential requirements for pyrotechnic articles shall not be altered. The effect of the change. The impact of the draft on the administrative burden on economic operators and on day-to-day activities is minimal. The draft is planned to enter into force on 1 July 2015 and is due to Directive 2013/29/EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U551	Any questions? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Minister Urve Palo. I would like to present a chair with Kalev Kallemetsa, member of the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U552	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, On 8 December, a meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs was held at which this draft was presented. Indeed, this is a transposition of the directive. Changes will be made in three areas, but not very widely. The Commission raised a few questions about the 10-year retention obligation set out in paragraph 9, but since it concerns only trade between undertakings, this requirement is relatively easy to meet. We were also interested in how coordination had gone, but no feedback had been received from market participants. The Commission decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda on 17 December (consensually) and to propose that the first reading be closed (consensually) and that the deadline for amendments be set at 10 working days, i.e. 6 January next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U553	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Kalev Kallemets. Do you want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 805. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at 12 noon on 6 January 2015.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U554	Our next item today, item 21, is the first reading of the draft Fisheries Act 801 initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair, Minister of Environment Mati Raidma!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U555	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, At the end of the day, five drafts from the environmental field. First of all, the draft law on fishing. The main objective of the draft Fisheries Act, which was prepared for you at the Ministry of the Environment, is to facilitate the understanding of regulation. The procedure of the Act was initiated within the framework of the codification of the Environmental Code. One of the objectives of codification is to harmonise the internal structure of the chapters of environmental law. The current Law on fishing has been amended several times, its structure has become very cumbersome and it undermines its comprehension of substance. The linguistic changes made to the law now ensure a better understanding. Some substantive changes have also been made which will improve the possibilities for buying and selling fish for own use and add a new fishing gear to recreational fishing gear. The possibility of selling fish caught by-catch is increased, and fishing in coastal fisheries can take place irrespective of the depth of the sea. Increased monitoring possibilities for detecting infringements, carrying out procedures and prosecuting them. According to the draft, a professional fisherman may sell the fish he catches to a natural person without a first buy-in receipt and the natural person may buy the fish for his own use up to 30 kilograms per day. According to the current law, the cost of the quantity of fish purchased for own use must not exceed EUR 19,2 per day. At present, the threshold for buying fish for own use is too low for noble fish such as salmon, trout, eel, herring, and eye. Thus, no salmon can be purchased for own use, as the weight of a single specimen is usually 5 kilograms and the cost exceeds EUR 19,2. It is not appropriate to rely on the amount of money, but on the amount of fish that can be up to 30 kilograms as a result of a European Union regulation, in the regulation on the purchase and sale of fish for own use. The proposal includes a kadiska among recreational fishing gear. Kadiska is an environmentally friendly trap with no fishing capacity and which can be discarded alive. According to the draft, one person may be allowed to use up to three fishing gears for recreational fisheries on one or more waters where fishing opportunities are established. In particular, fishing with Kadiska should be permitted in relatively small waters where there is no possibility of gillnet fishing and where the stock is generally underused, for example in Estonia for the most common species of less valuable fish, such as shirt, perch, nurg, flax, etc. Fishing opportunities shall be established on the basis of scientific advice. The law has been supplemented in the light of the provisions of the EU regulations on the ban on discards. It shall be prohibited to discard fish of species subject to the Union ban on discards, such as sprat, herring, cod and salmon, excluding fish caught in recreational fisheries using fishing gears. For the remaining species, the current system will continue. Unviable fish are not allowed to be discarded, but viable fish must be released. It is also necessary to recover fish caught in recreational fisheries by fishing gear, as in most cases such fish survive. At present, there are quite frequent situations where fishing undersized fish is justified by the ban on discarding unviable fish, despite the fact that the fish is viable and should be discarded. The change should improve the situation. The sale/purchase provision for fish caught as by-catch allowing the sale of sized fish caught as by-catch has been supplemented. The possibilities of selling undersized fish have also been improved, allowing fish caught for scientific purposes and fish undersized fish subject to EU discard ban to be sold for non-human consumption, such as animal feed, fertiliser production, cosmetics, etc. Undersized fish for human consumption shall be prohibited in the European Union. This provision enters into force on 1 January 2016, a transitional period is necessary to comply with the fishing rules. The law is supplemented by a GPS tracking device that is valid on Lake Peipsi, Lämmi- ja Pihkva. All vessels engaged in commercial fishing must be equipped with GPS. Currently, since 2012, this requirement applies only to vessels equipped with bottom seines fishing on Lake Peipsi. These waters have major problems with respect to compliance and it is therefore essential to strengthen surveillance. In the light of international experience, the installation of surveillance systems on means of transport is considered cost-effective and has justified itself in the conservation of fish stocks. On board vessels equipped with bottom seines, GPS data has proved to be very informative and necessary, in particular to improve environmental inspections. At present, lakes are in a situation where fishing is carried out with a large number of unmarked and allegedly stolen tagged gears. Tracking systems show which vessels operate in the area and consequently measures can be taken to prevent and detect further infringements. GPS equipment must be installed on some 350 vessels, the costs are planned to be covered by the Environmental Investment Centre. The amendment will enter into force on 1 September 2015, a transitional period is necessary for the execution of the relevant procurements and the purchase of equipment and the installation of professional fishing vessels on border lakes. At the level of the law, the concept of damage to fish stocks is laid down, which until now is regulated in the implementing act. For the purposes of the current Regulation, damage to a stock is to cause damage to fish by killing, injuring, otherwise destroying or removing it from the natural environment, where such action results in a breach of the requirements of law or other legislation. This definition is very general. The draft provides for specific cases of non-compliance at the level of the law where the damage has been caused. It is foreseen that fishing without the required fishing rights, fishing for undersized fish, fishing during and at a prohibited time, fishing for a prohibited species and non-compliance with the fishing gear requirements will cause damage to the stocks. It is also foreseen as an innovation that fish stocks will be harmed even if they are sold, bought or processed and the origin of fish has not been proven and if they are sold undersized fish. In practice, there are rare cases where fish that are undersized or for which there is no evidence of origin are found in the inspection of a fishing establishment. This practice is punishable, but the damage to fish stocks has not been calculated. The illegal purchase, sale and handling of fish directly affects fish stocks, as fish caught illegally are sold at a cheaper price and are more easily found in the market. According to the draft, the number of misdemeanours has increased. The misdemeanours provided for in the fishing law in force so far included all infringements of fishing, conservation or exploitation requirements, which did not give a specific description of the act, i.e. was very general. The draft provides for specific acts the commission of which is punishable. As an amendment, the new law provides for an increase in the maximum penalty of up to EUR 3200 for a misdemeanour in force until now, up to EUR 32000. The current penalty rate has remained unchanged since 2003, but the statistics show that the current level of fines does not make the behaviour of economic operators as necessary to take account of the requirements of the law in an area of activity where the proceeds from illegal fishing can be very high. The penalty rate for natural persons shall not be changed. In essence, I have described all the important changes that the law brings with it. The Act has passed through all mandatory coordination circles and has reached this Riigikogu. Dear Riigikogu, please support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U556	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U557	Thank you, Madam President. Austet Minister! According to § 15 (3) of the bill, up to 30 kilos of fish can be purchased for own use per day. It shall not be considered as a first purchase. In theory, it is possible to buy 10 tons of fish per year for your own use. Haven't we left that door too open right now, how do you feel?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U558	According to the drafters, this number seemed optimal. Of course, this is a deliberate decision, which is a good place for the Riigikogu to review, discuss and shape the state's position on these figures in the course of the draft procedure. If we're talking about 30 or 20 or 15, there's no such real truth here. This is the decision of the founder of the law, which is finally fixed in the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U559	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U560	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. The Minister of Agriculture shall determine when fishing may take place. Do you think it's right that two ministries are involved in equipment and fishing in general?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U561	Please, Igor Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U562	Thank you. I have sensed that the issue is challenging in this regard, i.e. the problem is really divided between two ministries. Well, the invisible boundary goes from there that when the fish is in the wild, it's in the environment and the Ministry of the Environment to monitor and control, but if the fish is already in the hands of the fisherman and moving towards the economy, then it's the Ministry of Agriculture. But I agree that this issue should be reviewed from time to time, and maybe there are ways of sharing this area more effectively between the two ministries.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U563	Thank you. Your story ran through a word that immediately lit a red lamp. You said certain exceptions would be made to scientific fishing. Fishing for scientific research purposes people think they're looking at what's online and then doing science. This is not the case at all. Scientists come in with their big barge asshole and pull out the fish with the big nets. And if you consider that this scientist's salary isn't so much off, you might ask where the line between scientific fishing and simply commercial business goes. I mean, this line is thin when you look at the amounts that are pulled out for science.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U564	Thank you. Please, Igor Gräzin, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U565	Thank you. I understand your constituents' concerns. Yeah, let me be clear: they're our constituents. Scientific fishing has always created emotions and similar issues, where there is a border between scientists and fishermen. Many fishermen also consider themselves scientists from time to time and vice versa. So this is again a topic for the Riigikogu and the Committee on the Environment. If the problem is acutely upright, it can be dealt with and, if there is any possibility and ideas, there is a way to improve the legal space through a more precise definition. There is clear support from the Ministry of the Environment for this.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U566	To support the position of the Minister and of my colleague Korb, I ask such a question. This distinction between the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of the Environment, you just said that depends on whether the fish is in the water or not. Yeah, it's a big break. But if we were to assume that one is responsible for the resource that remains in nature and the other, let's say, production, I honestly think that the interference of the Ministry of Agriculture in this matter is a complete misunderstanding. Do you think otherwise?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U567	There's a clear connection to your first question, to hand over the scientists. Because if they take out the fish, it's like they're more connected to the Ministry of Agriculture, to whom they could address your question in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U568	Any more questions? No further questions. Thank you very much. I would like to ask Annely Akkermann, Member of the Environment Committee, for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U569	Good evening, Mr President, and ladies and gentlemen. At the meeting of the Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu on 9 December, the draft Fisheries Act was examined in 801. Kaire Märtin, Head of the Fish Stocks Department of the Ministry of the Environment, and Helen Holtsman, lawyer at the Legal Department, presented the draft and answered questions from the members of the committee. The draft has been drawn up in the framework of the codification of environmental law and there are few substantive changes to the new law compared to the existing law, but the rules are more logically structured in the interests of comprehension. The Minister gave an adequate overview of the draft. I will take a closer look at some aspects raised by the Commission. The question arose as to why some provisions have a different date from the general entry into force procedure. Kaire Märtin replied that the dates of entry into force were set on the basis of the autumn fishing season in Lake Peipsi, Pihkva and Lämmijärv and the desire to leave the target group more time to familiarise themselves with the new conditions of the law. The introduction of an electronic marking requirement for fishing gear was requested. The current legal framework allows for the introduction of electronic labels. The idea has been working for a year. There is an overview of the technical solutions and their cost, and the development of the fisheries information system to implement the electronic marking of fishing gear. Both the electronic marking of fishing gear and the requirement to have GPS equipment on board fishing vessels serve the objective of reducing illegal fishing. At present, only the fisherman to whom the fishing authorisation has been issued may fish with the net. It was proposed to consider an amendment that, if, for example, a fisherman is ill, he could be replaced by another fisherman in the removal of the gillnet. It also recommended that the authorisation for professional fishing be made electronic, as is the authorisation for recreational fishing. Kaire Märtin replied that professional fishermen themselves should be prepared for the introduction of electronic licences, but they are not yet. Concerns were expressed about the high levels of fines imposed on individual fishermen. The fines should be capped so that the fine does not call illegal fishermen into order, but does not completely ruin the fishermen's families. The amount of the fine should be reasonable. The Fish Damage Regulation will be reviewed and a ceiling will also be set. In the first half of the following year, by-catch rates shall be reviewed and a provision shall enter into force that fish caught by-catch shall be allowed to be sold. The by-catch rate for gillnets shall be 8% of the numerical quantity. A question was asked about the size of the eye of the fishing gear and the so-called double criterion for the size of the fish caught. Both will remain in force in parallel, and both minimum mesh size and minimum fish size will continue to be established. An important amendment is based on the EU regulation, which was already mentioned here. A private individual has the right to buy 30 kg of fish a day for personal consumption, and so far this quantity was too small. The provision regulates so-called boat fishing that it is not necessary to go to the first buyer to buy fish. Recreational fishermen have raised the issue that some, not the most honest among them, fish much more than they consume tens and hundreds of kilos a day. Recreational fishermen are prohibited from selling fish, but large quantities of fish caught trigger a chain of illegal activities and undermine both the stock and fair competition in professional fishing. The proposal to supplement the law was discussed in such a way that a recreational fisherman should not fish more than 30 kilos a day. Even if it is difficult to control, the law must state that catching more than 30 kilograms is illegal. Professional fishing is very strictly regulated, effective monitoring has been established and considerable fines have been imposed. It is unfair to professional fishermen that recreational fishermen can try much more than they can consume and benefit from illegal activities, with virtually no way of sanctioning them. Both measures and monitoring were found to be necessary to control illegal recreational fishing. The Committee on the Environment set the deadline for the amendments to be made slightly beyond what was normal in order to allow time for the organisation of a seminar for recreational and professional fishermen. The desire is to obtain certainty from fishermen about the comprehensibility and practical applicability of the law and to propose amendments which have been discussed with them. The Committee on the Environment decided to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that the draft Fisheries Act 801 be sent to the first reading today, 17 December 2014, proposing that the first reading be completed and that the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft be set at 16 a.m. on 15 January 2015. It was also decided to appoint a rapporteur for the draft here. Thank you so much for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U570	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 801 amendments at 16 a.m. on 15 January 2015.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U571	Our next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the law on ambient air protection initiated by the Government of the Republic. On behalf of the initiator, the Minister of the Environment Mati Raidma will make a presentation. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U572	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Next is a draft amendment to the law on ambient air protection prepared at the Ministry of the Environment. Firstly, we wish to have a new greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme in Estonia in accordance with the draft law. The new greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme will operate from 2005 alongside the European Union's greenhouse gas emission trading scheme (ETS) for the period 2013 to 2020. This concerns sectors outside the EU trading system, transport, agriculture, waste management, small-scale or up to 20 MW power generation, as well as energy savings in buildings. While the functioning of the trading system imposes greenhouse gas emission limitation obligations on the largest companies in the energy production and industry, the new scheme operates on other bases. Emission limitation obligations are imposed on Member States. In order to fulfil its greenhouse gas limitation obligation more flexibly and cost-effectively, a country has the possibility to trade new credits. The trading of new units will take place on the basis of the same principles as the functioning of AAU emission allowance trading, in which Estonia has been quite successful in its activities. Secondly, we want to ensure the functioning of the European Union's greenhouse gas emission allowance trading system in Estonia, in accordance with the draft law. In addition to large-scale industry and energy production, aviation is also part of the EU's trading system. The European Commission has asked us, in connection with this directive, to supplement Estonian laws, mainly to improve wording and to improve terminology. These changes do not impose any additional obligations on operators of aircraft operated by Estonia. In addition to the above, the draft introduces technical changes to the legislation on fluorinated greenhouse gases (F-gases). Again, the changes to the new EU regulation on fluorinated greenhouse gases are mainly technical terms, requirements for the labelling of equipment and the registration of equipment and maintenance operations. As the environmental risks of fluorinated greenhouse gases vary, the substance itself will be taken into account in the future and its quantity will have to be converted into carbon dioxide equivalent. Honourable Riigikogu, I ask you to support the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U573	Any questions for the initiator? No, it's not. Thank you. The Commission's rapporteur is Tõnis Kõiv. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U574	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on the Environment discussed the draft at its meeting on 816 Tuesdays, 9 December. The draft had been presented by Deputy Chancellor Meelis Münt of the Ministry of the Environment and by the officials Katre Kets and Annika Konovalov. According to the introduction presented to us, the bill contains three basic things that will be changed. Firstly, the Aviation Directive is being fully transposed. Secondly, the aim is to create a new quota trading system. While the country has so far traded with the so-called new ones, since 2013, in addition to the European Union's trading system, each Member State of the European Union has set its own greenhouse gas emission limits. This system includes smaller heat and power generators (up to 20 MW), the transport sector, the waste sector and agriculture. In these areas, commitments are foreseen for the country up to 2030, i.e. the obligation to limit the growth of greenhouse gas emissions. And if the country is able to keep emissions below the limit, it will be possible to sell excess quotas to other countries. According to plans and forecasts, Estonia has three million units of surplus quota that could be sold by 2020. The third block of amendments concerns the FFC Regulation, which is scheduled to enter into force on 1 January next year. The members of the Commission also had a number of questions for the rapporteurs. They asked, for example, what countries could be where there would be a shortage of units and who could be buyers. In response, we learned that Ireland, Luxembourg and Belgium could be the first countries to fall short and then become potential buyers. It was also a question of what could be the sector or sector in which we could have a deficit in Estonia, despite the forecast of a surplus of three million units. We learned that the most critical is the transport sector, that there might be a shortage. Thirdly, the question was whether there might be a need to use emission credits in relation to forest management. In response, we have received that, according to current knowledge, the likely issue of the forestry sector is such that we can cover it with our units, with our surplus, there is no additional need. And even if the maximum or actually sustainable cutting volume of 15 million cubic metres is achieved after the Forest Management Development Plan, if there is a need for an additional mission, the European Commission has promised that it will help Estonia to solve such problems. There were other issues concerning aviation, emissions trading on the market of new airlines, obtaining their quota and so on. Those questions were all well answered. The Commission took the following procedural decisions, all of which were taken in a consensual manner. It was first decided to propose a draft of 816 on the agenda for the plenary session on 17 December 2014. Secondly, it was decided to propose the termination of the first reading and, thirdly, to set the deadline for amendments to draft 816 at 16 a.m. on 6 January 2015. The last consensual decision concerned the appointment of the speaker to act as rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U575	Are there any questions for the Commission's rapporteur? No, it's not. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 816 amendments at 16 a.m. on 6 January 2015.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U576	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Waste Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The initiator's waitress is Minister of the Environment Mati Raidma. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U577	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! You have received a draft law amending the Waste Act prepared at the Ministry of the Environment. It clarifies the provisions on the removal of waste batteries and accumulators from electrical and electronic equipment in the Waste Act. The need to amend the Waste Act is due to the transposition into Estonian law of the amendments to the Battery Directive No 2013/56/EU. The amendments to the Directive must be transposed by 1 July 2015. The law amending the draft Waste Act complements one section of the current Waste Act concerning the manufacturer's obligations in the manufacture of electrical and electronic equipment containing batteries and accumulators. The current Waste Act obliges manufacturers of electrical and electronic equipment containing batteries and accumulators to design their equipment in such a way that waste batteries and accumulators can be easily removed from the equipment. The transposition of the amendments to the Battery Directive clarifies the obligations of manufacturers, adding that manufacturers must also provide for the possibility for a qualified worker independent of the manufacturer to be able to remove waste batteries and accumulators from the plant when designing the equipment. With electrical and electronic equipment containing batteries and batteries, the manufacturer must provide instructions explaining how to safely remove waste batteries or accumulators. A new addition must be added to the instructions, explaining to the end user or qualified staff how to remove waste batteries and accumulators from the equipment. In conclusion, I note that the implementation of the draft law will have a positive impact on the environment, as it will be possible to extend the lifetime of electrical and electronic equipment. Where an EEE user has a device in which he cannot change the battery or the battery himself, and he is only considering giving up his EEE, he or she shall have the possibility, if he or she so wishes, to have a qualified worker independent of the manufacturer replace the battery or battery in his or her EEE. In that case, he has no need to abandon his device or buy a new one. The proposed change will thus contribute to reducing the consumption of natural resources, as fewer new products will have to be produced and the amount of waste generated by the products will also be reduced. Honourable Riigikogu! I would also ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U578	There are no questions for the initiator of the draft, and therefore the rapporteur Erki Nool, on the Commission's side, is already rushing to the platform. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U579	Questions for the waitress. Tõnis Kõiv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U580	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on the Environment discussed its meeting on 8 December. a draft law amending the Waste Act 789. The Minister has already given an overview of the draft. I would just like to clarify one thing that was also asked in the Commission. It was asked whether it would be taken over at the same time in all 28 Member States, since it is a transposition of the directive. The answer was that yes, it will be valid throughout the European Union from 1 July 2015. It's a good law. The Committee on the Environment took the following procedural decisions: to send draft 789 to the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 17 December, which is today, to propose that the first reading of the draft be stopped and to set the deadline for the amendment of the draft 789 by 6 January 2015 at 16 a.m. All the decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U581	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague waitress! As we know, some of the phones we use are where the battery goes from behind more easily, and some are where the battery goes more difficult. Then we also have a number of phone users who like to take the battery from behind for certain reasons during a conversation. Will their lives become easier after this bill becomes law? Does the manufacturer have to help them figure out how the battery goes from behind and what kind of phone to get?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U582	Yes, when the law comes into force, all manufacturers must provide a notification on the page or the seller must explain how the battery can be removed on any model. We know that iPhones and Samsung phones are very widespread, maybe they want to know how their battery works. If a person is not able to disassemble it himself, he must be able to purchase information about where the battery is removed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U583	Thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. I will conclude the first reading of the draft 789 and set the deadline for submitting amendments at 16 a.m. on 6 January 2015.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U584	Our next item is another draft law on the amendment of the Waste Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, this time at 790. This is a first reading, and the waitress is Minister of the Environment Mati Raidma. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U585	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased to introduce you to the next draft law amending the Waste Act, which, unlike the one on the previous item on the agenda, seeks to solve our own problems and does not directly relate to the directives of the European Union. The content of the draft is to lay down in the Waste Act as a special measure of national supervision a control operation which is an effective measure to control the activities of the purchasers of metal waste. A control transaction means an offer to a collector of metal for the purchase of prohibited metal waste and, in the event of acceptance, the execution of a disposal transaction and fixing that the purchaser does not comply with the special conditions laid down in the Waste Act. Specific conditions are laid down for the collection of metal waste. The purchase of metal objects of apparent artistic or historical value as waste is prohibited. Buying-in of electric wires and cables, road signs and signposts, underground communication wells, metal shutters, railway tracks, motor vehicles or their essential parts as waste is only allowed from companies that have a corresponding licence, such as road maintenance licences. When purchasing the abovementioned metal waste, it must also be observed that the purchase cannot be paid in cash and that a document must be drawn up concerning the purchase. According to the bill, the control operation is not required to be presented or to wear uniforms by the control official when the transaction is made. The official shall also not be required to produce a certificate of formality until the purpose of the check has been achieved. The inspection operation shall be decided by the Director-General of the Environmental Inspectorate or by an official authorised by him. The Environmental Inspectorate and the Police and Border Guard Board have significantly enhanced cooperation in this area in recent years. A cooperation agreement has been concluded according to which the two institutions will carry out joint controls across Estonia with metal waste collectors. Nevertheless, metal thefts from substations and railways, as well as thefts from manholeholes, pose a serious risk, disrupting the functioning of critical infrastructure and also endangering human lives. Thefts are carried out primarily for the purpose of obtaining money from the sale of an electric cable or a metal hatch. The amendment of the law also has a preventive character in relation to a possible offence. If scrap collectors know that an inspector has the right to carry out control sales and do not know whether or not the person offering metal waste to them is from the Environmental Inspectorate, it is possible that the purchase of restricted metal waste will be refused more frequently. I therefore note, in conclusion, that this is an important bill in our circumstances. Honourable Riigikogu, I ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U586	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Kalev Kallemets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U587	President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. I support this draft enthusiastically, much-awaited thing. We have also seen in the press how journalists themselves have done control shopping and so-called busters. The explanatory memorandum states that there are 175 companies authorised to collect metal waste and that the police have raided and initiated 60 misdemeanour proceedings in 2012 and 2013. If these volumes are taken into account, have the officials told you the extent to which they hope to carry out controls next year in order to achieve a significant result?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U588	Thank you. First, of course, it is hoped to have a preventive effect, i.e. if it is known that there will be a significant increase in the number of private-wear control buyers in the future, it will be a preventive action. As far as statistics are concerned, for example, the 2014 review, which was carried out as of November, can be found in Tallinn and Harjumaa, where 32 metal buy-in sites were checked and where more than half of them, or 18, were found to be in violation of the Waste Act. At the end of May, 30 persons involved in the handling and buying-in of metal waste were examined in Viru County. There were no direct violations in Lääne-Virumaa, but seven misdemeanour proceedings were opened in Ida-Virumaa. 22 seats were checked in South Estonia and there were nine cases of misdemeanour. These statistics show that the problem is serious and that this work must certainly be stepped up. As far as figures are concerned, these last facts may have given an idea of the scale of the work.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U589	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U590	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Of the 167 inspectors, only 20 are involved in this inspection. There are 550 companies that are involved in the harvesting of metal. Don't you think this number is so large that what needs to be done now? After all, there will be two companies in every rural municipality or city that are just in the process of collecting metal.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U591	Thank you very much. On the one hand, I can support your opinion. On the other hand, it is still a business sector and the market must, by the end of the day, put in place, through competition, the optimal number of undertakings active in this field. I do not believe that this sector would require quantitative limits on the state's side, that this area should be so heavily regulated.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U592	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U593	In the reply procedure, we discussed this in the Commission, and it was said that none of these 550 licences had been withdrawn in the last few years. I mean, there's as many reserves as you need.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U594	Thank you. If it was a line, you don't want an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U595	No further questions. Commission waitress Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U596	Ladies and gentlemen, In my opinion, this is a very good law, because it is a problem that has haunted Estonian society for years. Unfortunately, a solution has also been sought for a long time and, unfortunately, the only way to solve this problem is by means of our law. Why is this a very big problem? When electric cables are stolen, it certainly causes very often discomfort, such as when it happens on the sweetest television screen or something like that. Theft of well hatches is very common, and unfortunately there are also many deaths in Estonia, and this year after year. So this is an extremely good law. Hopefully, this will help us to resolve the problems that have arisen over the years. The draft law amending the Waste Act on 790 should now come to the procedural decisions taken by the Commission. The Committee on the Environment also discussed this draft law on 8 December. a. We were presenting the draft by Kaili Kuusk, Adviser to the Waste Department of the Ministry of the Environment, and Tarmo Tehva, Deputy Head of the Harjumaa office of the Environmental Inspectorate. The minister gave a broad overview of the nature of the law here, and I will then finally give notice of the procedural decisions. The Commission proposed a draft of 790 Riigikogu plenary session on 17 December. a on the agenda (this was a consensual decision), suggesting that the first reading of the draft be discontinued (this was also a consensual decision) and propose setting the deadline for the amendments to be set at 6 January 2015, 4 p.m. These were Commission decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U597	There are no questions for the rapporteur. In the Commission's view, the first reading of the draft very good law 790 has been completed. Oh, I'm sorry! I'm opening negotiations. Since there are no requests, I'll close the negotiations. It is only now that the first reading of Bill 790 has been completed. The deadline for tabling amendments is 6 January at 4 p.m. That's what I want.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U598	Our next item is the first reading of the Environmental Impact Assessment and Environmental Management System Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and, in this connection, the draft law amending other laws. The initiator's waitress is Minister of the Environment Mati Raidma. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U599	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Last but not least, let me present the draft law on environmental impact assessment prepared by the Ministry of the Environment and the amendment of the Environmental Management System Act and, in this connection, the amendment of other laws. The current law has been in force for nearly ten years and during this period only minor changes have been made to the legislation. There is therefore a practical need to correct and supplement the system as a whole. The aim of the draft is to make the impact assessment process more effective, clearer and transparent and of higher quality as a whole. Environmental impact assessments shall be carried out in the course of the licensing process. Strategic Environmental Impact Assessments will be carried out during the preparation of national development plans and spatial plans. The grantor of an authorisation or the organiser of the preparation of a planning document, the decision-maker of a single name is different bodies, such as the Environmental Board and the Ministry of the Environment, mostly local authorities in case of construction permits or plans. In both cases, the main objective is to provide the decision-maker with the necessary information for the authorisation or the establishment of a planning document. One of the main changes to the draft law is the decision-maker's increased involvement in the process. It will be given a leading role in the impact assessment process, which means carrying out the entire procedure and contributing substantially. In this way, the decisions will take better account of the results of the impact assessment. Another important change will be the question of the authorities' views on the content and documentation of the impact assessment, based on the area of competence. This will take place at all important stages: identifying the need to initiate an impact assessment, preparing a programme or initial task, and reporting as a final result. It is important to point out that the report also needs to be coordinated with the relevant authorities. The full involvement of the institutions will extend the duration of the procedure, but it will have an important role to play. This will only trigger an impact assessment in justified cases and ensure the quality of the impact assessment. With wide-ranging involvement, the decision-maker receives feedback, which is the basis for better and more transparent decision-making. Consultation and closer cooperation between the parties will also help to avoid possible conflicts at later stages, including from a public perspective. The quality of the impact assessment depends to a large extent on the competence of the experts. Therefore, the draft has given important attention to expert-related aspects. The draft sets out an approach based on a lead expert and clarifies and strengthens its competence requirements. For example, a leading expert on environmental impact assessment will need to have a Master's degree and five years of work experience in the future and have completed 60 hours of impact assessment management training. A leading expert on Strategic Environmental Impact Assessment (SEA) will be subject to similar competence requirements. The requirement that a strategic environmental assessment of a detailed plan may only be carried out by a leading expert with an environmental impact assessment licence can be specifically mentioned. In the implementation of the Act, the grounds for the revocation of the environmental impact assessment expert's licence have emerged as a defect, which is why the draft clarifies the rules governing the withdrawal of the licence. The draft also specifies and corrects the list of mandatory environmental impact assessment activities. The list of documents covered by the Strategic Environmental Assessment (SEA) will also be structured. This will make it easier for decision-makers to understand, in which case the assessment must be initiated on a mandatory basis and when consideration of the initiation of the assessment is required. It can also be pointed out that changes to the draft strategic environmental assessment are related to the planning law pending in the Riigikogu. According to the draft, the planning law will continue to apply to the Strategic Environmental Assessment of Plans. On the substantive side of the Strategic Environmental Assessment, the Environmental Impact Assessment and Environmental Management System Act will continue to be regulated. The draft also brings the law into line with the General Part of the Environmental Code by harmonising the terminology of the laws. Honourable Riigikogu, I ask you to support the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U600	Any questions for the initiator of the bill? No, it's not. Commission waitress Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U601	Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on the Environment discussed the draft law amending the Environmental Impact Assessment and Environmental Management System Act and, in this connection, the other laws on 800 Tuesday, 9 December. We were invited to present the draft by Deputy Chancellor Ado Lõhmus of the Ministry of the Environment and Chief Specialist Rainer Persidski of the Department of Environmental Management. The aim of the draft is to make the impact assessment process more efficient, clearer and transparent and to improve the quality of the documentation. The minister here gave an overview of the substance of the law. The members of the Commission asked the Vice-Chancellor a number of questions. Since it has been said that the draft law makes the procedure more effective, they asked what was more effective, whether it meant more efficient in time. Unfortunately or luckily, you can't guarantee that. Some changes, some reliefs, but the draft law provides, so that people who carry out environmental impact assessments certainly have legal clarity. I'd like to go to procedural decisions. The Committee on the Environment decided to propose a draft of 800 plenary sessions of the Riigikogu. a on the agenda of 17 December 2015 (this was a consensual decision), ending the first reading of the draft (consensual decision) and setting the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft by 6 January 2015 at 4 p.m. (this decision was also consensual).
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U602	Questions for the waitress. Please, Kalev Kallemets!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U603	President-in-Office of the Council. Dear waitress, This is a relatively large set of changes. We in the Committee on Economic Affairs have developed a pretty good practice. If there is such a large set of changes and there are quite a lot of opinions here from the associations with which the draft has been agreed, then we have this practice of involving one or two main representative organisations. Fortunately, there is an Estonian Environmental Impact Assessment Society in the field currently under discussion. Did you also think at this committee meeting that any of these associations could be heard during the second reading?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U604	This draft law has been prepared for about three years and has been very seriously aligned with various professional organisations. In general, people are positive. Before the second reading of the draft in the Chamber of Riigikogu, the Committee on the Environment will definitely meet with professional organisations and we will discuss the draft very thoroughly in the committee before sending it to second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-17_U605	Thank you, Erki Arrow! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. In order to make up for the haste during the previous draft, I will open negotiations once again. Despite that, no one wants to talk. The first reading of the draft 800 has been completed. By the deadline for submitting amendments, I will set 6 January 2015 at 4 p.m. I'll see you tomorrow! Good night. Closure of the sitting at 11:37 p.m.
