ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-23_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the session of the sixth working week of the 8th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-23_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have an inquiry to report on behalf of the Centre Party Group to the Minister of Health and Labour, Urmas Kruus. In fact, information recently came to the public that the Health Insurance Fund has been considering making a referral mandatory in all disciplines since 2016. This means that in the future, you will not have access to an ophthalmologist or gynaecologist without a referral, to a psychiatrist, to a dermatological and sexually transmitted doctor or to a pulmologist, which we find very strange. This is called making specialised medical care more accessible. So let's put the filter on, and that's better. According to the Health Insurance Fund, family doctors can solve all the problems on their own, but the doctors think differently. The Women's Medical Association estimates that it is unwise to do so if doctors do not have the necessary preparation, equipment, or office. Family doctors think that not all these things can be taken as a single set. Many doctors have pointed out that it will be a problem that family doctors will only become the publisher of a referral. Of course, this would burden the entire medical system. We have a number of questions about this. First, whether such a filter system is still shortening the order, and then several more questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-23_U3	Thank you. I'm asking Kadri Samson to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-23_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The faction of the Centre Party initiates a draft amendment to § 48 of the Income Tax Act. Under this draft, the employer's expenditure on sports activities incurred by an employee or servant shall not be considered as a special advantage if these expenses do not exceed EUR 500 per employee or servant in the calendar year. If we do not punish employers for contributing to the health of their employees, we will create a better assumption that the risk of workers becoming exposed to occupational diseases will certainly increase motivation and improve health. Supporting a healthy lifestyle is beneficial for everyone. Promoting health at work not only improves health and does not reduce workers' absenteeism. The calculations by the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work show that every euro invested in the promotion of health at work will bring back 2.5 to 4.5 euros to the employer and will benefit both workers and employers, as well as society in general, as the overall burden on health and health systems will be reduced. Our Praxis has also assessed the cost of this change and, in fact, the current situation is that only very few of the benefits declared are granted and this revenue represents 0.3% of all the special preferential taxes. In other words, the state receives this tax revenue only a few hundred thousand a year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-23_U5	Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted a draft. The Board of the Riigikogu decides to accept this procedure in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. I have also accepted an inquiry. If it complies with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu shall forward it to the addressee without delay. Today I have some messages to pass on. Honourable members of the Riigikogu, this Friday, or tomorrow, 24 October, the 33rd session of the Baltic Assembly and 20th will take place in the Chamber. The Baltic Council. In this context, I would ask you to bring important materials from your desks and drawers. [[In the diner.]] You can do that after the hearing is over. You don't have to clean up right now. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. 81 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, 20 are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-23_U6	We're going to the agenda today. The first item is the third reading of the draft Act amending the Government Act and the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. Marianne Mikko has a wish to speak. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-23_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-23_U8	I'm sorry for a second. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Good hall, there's too much buzzing. Marianne Mikko, please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-23_U9	Yesterday, the European Parliament was appointed by the European Commission, led by Jean-Claude Juncker. All the Member States of the European Union, including Estonia, are represented with one Commissioner on the Commission which will work from 1 November. The European Parliament's decision was preceded by a series of serious hearings lasting for hours. Remember, there was drama in this process, but also tragedy. I am thinking of the Slovenian Commissioner-designate who had to be replaced because the European Parliament did not consider the Slovenian former Prime Minister worthy of the European Commission's position as Commissioner. Other countries had problems, not only Hungary, which is part of the Eastern bloc, but also France, for example. This spring, the Social Democrats presented their democracy package. One of our ideas was, and is, to change the procedure for the nomination of a Commissioner for the European Commission. Until now, the presentation of the Commissioner is the exclusive competence of the government. However, we want to share responsibility and want broad democratic decision-making, not so that the government alone appoints, but that the elected parliament of the people also approves the candidate. Although the Riigikogu is currently discussing the compatibility of a candidate for government, it is not possible to offer its alternatives. The Social Democrats attach importance to transparency, which is one of the hallmarks of parliamentary democracy. Any form of public involvement is important for SDE, as is the fact that the Estonian Commissioner is the best person we have to put out of Estonia in Brussels.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-23_U10	I'm sorry, performer! [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Honourable members of the Riigikogu, the place of discussion is somewhere else, we are listening to the waitress now. Please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-23_U11	Thank you very much. The draft requiring the vote of the members of the Riigikogu 604 makes the candidate for a European Commissioner appointed by the Government of the Republic more competitive in the European Parliament. The Estonian Commissioner to hear before the Riigikogu means that the Estonian male or female politician goes right through the crossfire of parliamentary questions here in Toompea before he gets the attention of the members of the European Parliament in Brussels and Strasbourg, the top politicians elected from 28 Member States. As they say, heavy drills, light battles. We also consider our draft to be important because it was precisely the will of the social democrats that this year a hearing took place a few months ago in this very Chamber with the Commissioner-designate proposed by the government. In other words, 1 November, Vice-President of the European Commission, Commissioner for the Digital Market, Andrus Ansip, received his first Euro Commissioner's battles with the help of all of us. I dare say that, therefore, his presence in the European Parliament was more secure than it would have been without such a hearing. I call on everyone to vote in favour of the draft Social Democrats, in other words democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-23_U12	Thank you very much. I'm asking for a speech chair in Urmas Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-23_U13	Ladies and gentlemen, I listened to the previous speaker and wondered. It turns out that we currently have a vote in Parliament on whether or not there is democracy in Estonia, in favour of democracy. The talk or words used to justify this bill are, to put it mildly, bizarre. First of all, listening to the Commissioner-designate in the Estonian Parliament is involving the public. Parliament is the highest body with a direct mandate from the people, and we are talking about public involvement. Madam people's representative, you are the decision-maker, Parliament is not a body for public participation. Secondly, we are talking about the fact that the procedure in the Estonian Parliament is a exercise. No, it's not. We are a representative of the Estonian people, who, on the basis of the mandate received from the Estonian people, decides various things. I understand the temptation of the Social Democrats to make a good face in a difficult, difficult, quite fundamentally changed draft. The very fundamental choice of the draft proposed by the Socialists was that the Commissioner-designate should have a parliamentary mandate. In European countries, I think, according to my memory, in Lithuania, the candidate will be given a parliamentary mandate, and in the lion's part, this mandate will not be granted. It is a place of decision whether or not a representative of the people wants such power, but a clear decision must be made here, yes or no. The Social Democrats have proposed this clear decision. But surprise-surprisingly, the Social Democrats came to the government, and compromises had to be made for that. And the compromise now is that Parliament has no competence in this matter, but an idea is being created as if it were being dealt with by Parliament. My argument is that this is not an extension of powers to Parliament or the development of democracy in Estonia, but, on the contrary, such an apparent creation of competence is a humiliation of parliament. This is a situation where you are essentially trying to give Parliament not even the role of a rubber stamp in order to approve the decision, but you are trying to give Parliament a role where it is a seeming competence. We have developed a parliamentary practice that those taking up high offices will present their views in Parliament, and I think that is very good. I think that, without amending the law, the elected European Parliament could also come here. We would invite them here and they would explain their vision and their view of European affairs, tell them what they are doing in Brussels. We do not need to burden it with the law's apparent competence. This is a rather dangerous trend that threatens us in Estonia: if we do not have the courage or the ability to make real decisions, we will create apparent decisions. The decision is made, the bird is written, something has been changed, but nothing changes. Dear friends! Such a seeming act of substitution is not what Parliament is actually empowered to do. Therefore, the Pro Patria and Res Publica Alliance will not take part in this vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-23_U14	Thank you. Priit Toobal next, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-23_U15	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, A member of the European Commission is one of the highest representatives of the country under the leadership of the European Union. The Centre Party considers it absolutely appropriate to bring the debate on the appointment of an Estonian representative from the table of the government to this Parliamentary Chamber, but not only the debate, but also the decision-making power when approving the candidate and presenting it to Europe. On 18 January this year, it was the chairman of our political party that first came up with the idea of the nomination of the Commissioner-designate, but only three days later the Bureau of the Socialist Party made the same decision. Let me quote Evgeni Ossinovski, a Sotsi board member: 'We should put an end to an opaque backroom policy on this issue, which will make the Commissioner candidate hostage to secret agreements. At the moment, it has become a pre-election beauty contest between coalition parties, where their candidate will be promoted and their opponent blackened. [---] In manning such an important post, the final decision should definitely be taken by the Estonian National Council of the Riigikogu. ' Some time later, the so-called 'democratic package' also presented the right to appoint a Commissioner-designate to Parliament as a draft. It was as if we'd found somebody to think about, but it was like it was a social thing. When they went to the government, they agreed to substantially change the bill, or actually empty the contents. After these changes in the draft in question, Parliament has only been left with the right to watch, listen and ask, but the decision is still, by quoting itself, in the hands of non-transparent backroom policies and secret agreement makers. We are offered here in this Chamber, reminding us of Commissioner-designate Ansip's so-called hearing, a praise to a man that we do not see the need for. The argument that the Riigikogu's opponents mainly suggest that Parliament is the wrong place to present a candidate is not competent because it would either force the European Parliament or create a confrontation between the two parliaments if the proposed candidate does not find support in Europe. I would like to remind you that the Riigikogu, with its decision, would only present the candidate as a commissioner, rather than send a new commissioner from here with the suitcases. The final decision would still remain with Parliament in Brussels. And what better or wiser situation would it be if the candidate nominated by the government was returned from Brussels due to inadequacy? Nothing. Lithuania is precisely the candidate for Commissioner in its national parliament, and I think that we can learn from them. The Centre Party Group will not accept the incomplete, actually empty, version of the nomination of the Commissioner-designate, and we will not vote in favour of this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-23_U16	Please, Rait Maruse!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-23_U17	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, The position of the Reform Party is clearly supportive in this matter, so that Parliament can hear the candidate for Commissioner of the European Commission. We did this a while ago, as you remember. The hearing gave us both the opportunity to ask questions and to express our opinion through questions. This is certainly a step towards greater democracy and greater legitimacy for the candidate. Whether it stays that way, time will tell. Let's move on. The great speaker Urmas Reinsalu called it a humiliation of Parliament and a seeming replacement. It would then be recalled to my fellow Member that Parliament is not only a place for legislative work, for dealing with legislative proposals, but also a place for parliamentary supervision and parliamentary debate. That is exactly what we did here for our Commissioner-designate. The current Home and Working Procedures Act did not provide for regulation for such an event, and that is understandable, because it was a relatively new situation. We have implemented regulation in the debate on a crucial national issue, but it is not sufficient for this situation. Now, with this law, we are creating an appropriate regulation so that next time we have an exact legal basis. I would like to ask you to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-23_U18	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 604. We are preparing for the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, since this draft requires a majority of the Riigikogu's membership for adoption, we will first do a verification of the presence. 67 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, 34 are missing. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Government of the Republic Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group and the Law on the Home and Working Procedures of the Riigikogu 604. Please take a stand and vote. 52 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 5 against and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-23_U19	We are going to our second item today, the first reading of the draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure, the Law of Obligations Act and the General Part of the Civil Code Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for silence in the Chamber. There's a lot of anxiety today. I would like to present the speech chair to Minister of Justice Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-23_U20	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I have the honour to introduce to you the draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure, the Law of Obligations Act and the General Part of the Civil Code Act, approved by the Government of the Republic, 713. In the language of speech, it is also called the draft percentage rate of charge, the draft anti-SMS loan and the draft anti-usage bill. As they say, a good child has many names. This is one of the important points of the coalition agreement, which includes reducing and resolving the problem of fast lending in Estonia. In addition to the draft we are currently discussing, the Ministry of Justice will shortly be coming to your desk with a draft on the introduction of a cap on the costs of debt recovery. The Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of Social Affairs have also set the objectives of organising the rapid credit market. Now, more specifically, this bill. The general objective of the draft is to protect the interests and rights of the consumer as a weaker party to the contractual relationship. The amendments seek to secure the consumer's right to effective legal protection and fair justice and to ensure that consumers do not have to bear disproportionate costs in relation to consumer credit agreements. The draft amends the Code of Civil Procedure to prohibit the resolution of disputes arising from consumer credit agreements in arbitration and the Law of Obligations Act and the General Part of the Civil Code Act in order to set a ceiling on the percentage of credit in consumer credit agreements. According to the draft, in future, an arbitration agreement will be void and will be the subject of a dispute arising from a consumer credit agreement. Disputes shall be settled in the arbitration panel if the parties to the dispute have agreed to settle the dispute before the arbitration panel. This possibility is envisaged in particular in view of the effective resolution of disputes arising from economic activities between undertakings. The arbitration procedure is generally faster than a national court, while the rules of procedure in arbitration may be simplified and procedural standards lower. The rights of the consumer creditor may therefore not be sufficiently protected in the arbitration procedure. According to the draft, an economic or professional creditor cannot agree to settle disputes with the consumer in an arbitration procedure and the arbitration panel does not have the competence to resolve disputes arising from the consumer credit agreement in the future. However, the main change concerns the percentage of charge. It is planned that the consumer credit agreement will be void if the consumer's annual percentage rate of charge exceeds that of the last consumer credit institution published on 1 January or 1 July, i.e. six months ago, more than three times the average percentage rate of consumption loans granted to private individuals by credit institutions. I note that there is also a regulation on the limitation of the percentage rate of charge in the current law, which has tried to protect consumers against unfairly high-cost consumer credit agreements. Such a consumer credit agreement may be contrary to good manners under § 86 of the General Part of the Civil Code Act and therefore void. However, the problem is that, under current law, the consumer must be prepared to prove that he has made the transaction because of his exceptional need, dependence, inexperience or any other fact having such an effect. In practice, consumers are generally unable to do so. However, according to the draft, the consumer credit agreement is already negligible due to an excessive percentage of charge. Other presumptions of opposition to good manners, which have proved to be too difficult for the consumer to prove under current law, need no longer be taken into account in the draft. The court checks the nullity of the transaction on the basis of its duties; the consumer himself does not have to rely on nullity. If the transaction is negligible, the consumer is obliged to repay the amount of money borrowed and pay only the statutory interest, which is currently very low at 0,15% per year. The consumer does not have to pay other excessively high charges for the use of money. This will enable us to establish a regulation that protects consumers, on the one hand, from the cost of using too much money and, on the other hand, will guide the consumer credit provider on the basis of a reasonable rate of charge. We note that the Ministry of Justice has also paid great attention to its constitutionality when drafting the draft. A protective duty of a group of societies may also constitute a burdensome restriction on another group. As the draft restricts the possibility for the parties to a consumer credit agreement to agree on the contractual fees above the statutory ceiling, the proposed regulation undermines the constitutionally protected right of free self-realisation and the freedom to conduct a business. However, although, as I said, the draft is violating these freedoms, it is not a violation of these fundamental freedoms. Creative regulation must also be seen in the light of the principles of a constitutional social state. The principles of the social state have been furnished by the Supreme Court as follows: The social state and the protection of social rights include the idea of helping those who are unable to insure themselves to an adequate extent. This implies the possibility of appropriate regulation provided by law to protect the rights of the weaker party in a contractual relationship. This also applies to consumer credit relations, where the weaker party is the consumer who takes the credit. In the explanatory memorandum, we have further explained the necessity, suitability and moderation of the measures. International experience has certainly been an important background in the procedure of the law. Estonia has remained one of the few in its region where there is no substantive regulation of consumer credit agreements and quick loans, as well as supervision of institutions or companies and companies that issue these credits. It must be borne in mind that the percentage of consumer credit is not merely interest. Interest can be a negligible part of it if we also put various contractual charges here, for example in the case of leasing contracts, up to insurance obligations. By the time of entry into force of the draft, we have offered 1 July 2015. This date of entry into force has been chosen taking into account the expected time of the draft procedure and the need to allow the person implementing the law to prepare for the application of the new regulation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-23_U21	Thank you very much. Ken-Mart Vaher asks a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-23_U22	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! This bill has now matured in various ministries, including the Ministry of Justice for quite some time. The last heated dispute, especially with the experts of the Ministry of Justice, was about five years ago. This concerned the General Part of the Civil Code Act, as well as what has been discussed in the explanatory memorandum, in particular the conflict between good practice. At the moment, the explanatory memorandum states that the steps that the Ministry of Justice agreed on at the time are not quite sufficient. My question, however, is about the same percentage rate of charge. I understand that both in the original version of the draft and in the government had an understanding about six months ago that the APR could be lower in order to follow suit from Finland. The coordination round has now reached the understanding that it could be three times the average of the last six months. Please explain why such a change occurred in the coordination circle of the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-23_U23	Thank you. First of all, a little bit about your remark before I answer the question. After all, we know that very many aspects of legislation depend on political will, and the need and opportunity to move forward with this issue is also due to the fact that there was political will in the present coalition. However, if we come to the process of deciding on a two- or three-fold percentage rate of charge, I can say that the Ministry of Justice has had several meetings with interested parties on this issue over the last nearly six months, of whom the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Banking Association and the Association of Leasing Associations definitely deserve to be mentioned. The aim was to understand what the percentage rate of charge would be, which would allow those organisations and companies that would offer normally needed, purposeful products on the market, such as after-tax and leasing products, to operate with normal profitability. This was the main problem that emerged in these negotiations, which concerned 2% and 3%. I would like to add that if we look at what is actually happening in the fast-lending market, the percentage of fast-lending companies is not many times, but sometimes even tens of times higher than the three-fold rate of charge. Yeah, there's one thing to be noted. This bill has already had a positive impact on the ads of fast-borrowing companies, which, unfortunately, I think we see too much, food and food on TV and hear on the radio. The quick-borrowing companies came up with products where the APR is sometimes even lower than the triple proposed in the bill. However, account must be taken of the very important fact that, in the case of the percentage rate of charge, everything depends on the amount to be borrowed. For example, in the case of a larger loan, it is possible to show a significantly lower percentage rate of charge and to give the impression that it is actually 50 to 60%, while in the case of a smaller loan it is again higher, reaching tens of thousands. This lawyer sets the overall rate, it is not allowed to go over it, it is not allowed to exceed a three-fold percentage rate of charge, even in the case of small loans, for example. What am I saying? In order to strike a balance on the market and to ensure that end-to-end leasing and after-payment products for both economic and domestic turnover are not damaged and that competition in the market continues to exist, these negotiations resulted in a threefold percentage rate of charge.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-23_U24	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-23_U25	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! You yourself mentioned a number of problems in this area. The first problem is the extra costs associated with credit, I mean, for example, the reminder costs and the cost of sending a message. Another major issue is that these organisations are currently supervised by the Consumer Protection Board, not by the Financial Supervision Authority. Don't you think you started off a little bit wrong? First of all, it would be necessary to regulate this market, to put in place proper organisations, i.e. financial organisations, to monitor companies that grant loans, and then to set an APR.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-23_U26	Thank you. I will return to the beginning of my introductory speech and note that this draft is only one part of the so-called 'SMS' package agreed in the coalition. There is already a draft coming this way, towards your hall, for example, on the same thing that you have noted, this is the so-called draft law on curbing the new type of business, which deals with the costs of recovery. Our practice has shown that there have been cases where the percentage rate of charge and all related matters may not be so high, but the main part of the profit is earned when the credit is called back. The price of memoranda can reach up to several hundred euros. This bill, which is about to come before you, also puts very specific platitudes on these collection costs. That's one thing. The second point, which you have also rightly pointed out, concerns the control of these companies and companies in the market. The Ministry of Finance has just sent a draft law on credit institutions, credit intermediaries, to the Ministry of Justice for coordination, which lays down certain obligations in the control of institutions that are not directly credit institutions. The distinction between credit institutions is that credit institutions also accept deposits, which is why the requirements are slightly different. In essence, similar controls will also be introduced by the Financial Supervision Authority. This bill still reaches the present Riigikogu. However, all of this does not work very well if the same loan is still offered on the market without any restrictions. The draft on this issue is also moving this way. So the drafts that deal with all the problems that you have quite rightly pointed out will be on your desk, it will be up to you. The government has set itself this goal, and now it's all up to you. I hope that, just as the draft that is currently being discussed, you will certainly support these next drafts, and we will be able to get a head start on this problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-23_U27	Thank you very much. Ken-Mart Vaher, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-23_U28	Thank you! Dear waitress, thank you for your previous answer. I'm going a little bit more specific. As regards the Finnish example, you have explained on page 11 of the explanatory memorandum the difference between this draft and the law in force in Finland. My question arises from the fact that in Finland the percentage rate of charge is lower and is aimed at a specific group of loans, which is probably also the case in Finnish society for loans of a smaller size. They have limited it to loans below EUR 2000 and have ruled out precisely the same leasing contracts that you mentioned and which led you to amend the draft in the coordination round, returning to the triple rate, which is essentially the 100% percentage rate of charge now. Did you also consider the possibility of targeting this bill more precisely and setting out, for example, the same solution as our northern neighbours have chosen into their law?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-23_U29	Thank you. Let's just say that Estonian and Finnish legislation is not as close to relatives as we are in nationalities. The foundations of Finnish legislation may not be so deeply anchored in German law. We've been discussing this, it's about separating these two species. We are trying to avoid the risk that products will be called a different name. I'm suggesting right now that if the lease is somehow outside the consumer credit, for example, somebody's gonna pick up and start leasing money or whatever. There's a lot of opportunities. We saw that because of our law, it is more necessary to keep them in one room, and that is the way we went.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-23_U30	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Korb, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-23_U31	Minister, thank you for your previous answer. I'd like to know your overall assessment or vision. It is clear that fast-track credit has a role to play and a place in the economy. Of course, this area needs to be regulated, but what is the more distant vision this sector could reach, how much it could play in the whole financial system. The simple question: is it known how much fast-track credit is involved in all the loans that are currently being taken?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-23_U32	Thank you. Unfortunately, it is not possible to show the very objective size of the exact number of borrowers and the amount of such loans from the entire credit market. This market is certainly not comparable to, for example, the housing loan market or the corporate loan market, but it still reaches hundreds of millions and certainly affects almost one in ten Estonians. What does that mean? This means that it is deeply rooted, which means that the liberality of this credit market has enabled people to be drawn into the so-called debt spirals, i.e. a new one is taken to cancel one of the existing loans. The aim is to eliminate the possibility of taking usury by imposing all these restrictions. We cannot and must not liquidate the credit market under market economy conditions, but we can control it and restrict the cash credit market, keeping the right proportion between providing this service and making a profit on it. If you look at the effects more widely, the law adopted in Finland reduced the services offered on the credit market. For example, the issue of fast-track loans has decreased by about 1/3 if there were more than 87 bidders in the register of consumer lenders, then now 52 are left. We do not even have this register, but the new law on creditors and intermediaries will certainly provide such an overview. So in the long run, the aim is certainly to contain the rapid credit market and to give people the opportunity to come out of this spiral, how I say, not to slave for the same sequence of loans. It should certainly be noted that we are talking a lot about the percentage rate of charge, but the thing that is either overlooked, but perhaps not so much emotional, is the issue of arbitration. The issue of arbitration is very important from this point of view in particular, it became clear from the example of Latvia, where the arbitration tribunals were massively involved in resolving these problems, that essentially the same person who offers you a quick loan may act as an arbitrator in another office. Clearly, it doesn't come to be good. That's exactly what's important. The court will also become a person with proper legal protection and not be forced to sign the arbitration obligation relating to the loan agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-23_U33	Thank you. Please, Peter Laurson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-23_U34	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! If the consumer credit agreement is negligible, what do you think is the burden on the consumer to prove that the credit agreement is negligible? How much does the consumer have to work for this and how much can this cost be?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-23_U35	A good question in the sense that, in itself, if the amount in the contract is more than three times the percentage of charge, then the contract is nothing. Perhaps if he has entered into such a contract, he has various options. If the other party continues to require the performance of that contract and is not subject to legal regulation, it can appeal to the courts and order its annulment. But the point of this bill is not to grant loans with a higher percentage rate of charge. If an undertaking still does so, it is a direct breach of the law. Ultimately, this may even be of some benefit to the consumer, since he can repay this loan at a late interest of 0,15, which is the cheapest offer on the market.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-23_U36	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Minister of Justice. I would like to ask Kalle Jents, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-23_U37	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed this draft on 13 October. a. The Minister of Justice, together with the specialists and advisors of the Ministry of Justice, also took part in the discussion. Two main issues were raised at the Commission meeting, which were also discussed in the Chamber today, one of which was somewhat less. We discussed whether this restriction of entrepreneurship is compatible with the Constitution. Although, of course, we cannot say 100% that this is the case, the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs were nevertheless based on the fact that this is probably the case, taking into account the practice of other European Union countries as well. But certain questions will, of course, remain here. The second issue was the size of the rate on which Mr Ken-Mart also asked a question in this Chamber. Indeed, why the three-fold rate, why not four- or two-fold, especially when, in the initial phase, there was a double average rate in the draft. As we know, this three-fold average percentage rate of charge is currently actually above 100%. I think that on this issue, the Commission has a subject of thought between the first reading and the second reading. We also wondered how many people might be involved, but we did not get the exact answer. There are probably no exact statistics. There are currently 34,000 people with payment problems, and perhaps the vast majority of them are struggling with fast-track loans. The Commission took its decisions: to put this draft on the plenary agenda on 23 October, to propose that the first reading be closed, to set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 4 p.m. on 6 November and to appoint Kalle Jents as rapporteur. All these decisions were taken by consensus.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-23_U38	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Kalle Jents. We're opening negotiations. Please, on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, Ken-Marti Vaher!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-23_U39	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! In my opinion, and according to the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica, this draft is certainly a step in the right direction. In the Committee on Legal Affairs, we already had a brief debate on these issues, which have been partly reflected in this Chamber today. We fully understand that this draft alone does not provide this solution, which would help to clean up the rapid credit market as a whole and avoid usury, but perhaps the most important issue in these matters is the amendment of the law of debt. Five years ago, there was a very heated dispute in the Chamber of Riigikogu and also in the Committee on Legal Affairs concerning the position of some legal experts and, in particular, the Ministry of Justice on the regulation of this market. It must be said that, also as a result of changes at the time, the activities of a very large number of legal entities whose rate of charge and associated interest is much higher than legislation could be permitted under good manners are, in itself, illegal. The explanatory memorandum also lists a number of companies for which thousands of percentage APRs are actually mentioned. We hope that the draft under discussion will provide a solution, set a cap on this rate, is expected to also reduce the burden of proof for the consumer and impose additional information obligations on the creditor. A separate issue is the implementation side of the law, i.e. how compliance with the information obligation will be ensured and what will be the active role of the Consumer Protection Board in regulating this market. If you come to the upper limit of the percentage rate of charge, I think that the discussion of this rate is entirely justified. It can be seen that as a result of the coordination round, changes have been made to the original version of the draft and that the attitude of the previous government coalition has also changed, so that the APR could actually be less than approximately 100% close to that draft. The example of Finland is, in my opinion, absolutely relevant. Finns have tried to target the impact in their legislation by setting a cap, in particular for products involving loans below EUR 2000. It is precisely with these loans that there is the greatest concern in this high-speed credit market. They have excluded products arising from loan or leasing contracts, as well as those relating to deferred payment. I think we could consider this very seriously, because a more precise targeting will certainly have a remedial effect on the high-speed credit market. This also brings relief to those who are really drawn into this vicious circle that is difficult to come out of. It is, of course, the purpose of all this business to serve precisely those who are unable to fulfil their obligation. Figuratively speaking, they are lured into this circle, which they find difficult to come out of, and then they try to recover these loans for a shorter or longer period. And that's where the profits come from at these high-speed credit offices first. I believe that such preventive and preventive action, and certainly very strong capacity to implement the law, is, in many ways, crucial to curbing the rapid credit market. I hope that, in the Committee on Legal Affairs, we will discuss these issues in depth. Firstly, whether to reduce the percentage rate of charge compared to what is proposed in the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-23_U40	Would you like more minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-23_U41	Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-23_U42	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-23_U43	Secondly, would it not be reasonable to aim for a cap on specific products? And thirdly, what could be the real force of implementing the law, for example, with regard to the additional notification obligation imposed on the creditor? We also recall this constitutional aspect, which was thoroughly considered in 2009 when setting the ceiling, or the aspect of good practice and customs. There are clear precedents in European Union legislation concerning, in particular, restrictions on the freedom to conduct a business. As we know, these infamous roaming prices, which have caused us serious headaches here in the last decade, have been solved by the introduction of common roaming prices throughout the territory of the European Union. This is a pretty good example, which suggests that this is not an excessive violation of the freedom to conduct a business, but rather an aim to protect the consumer. Protect the consumer who lacks sufficient information, who is the weaker party in a particular contract relationship. It also limits the possibility of profiting too much from activities that, in essence, do not add any added value to society. So I call on everyone to have a positive debate. I hope that the discussions will be fruitful. I also hope that, in the near future, the drafts concerning the more precise regulation of the activities of the parties involved in this market, the possible creation of a register and certainly the subject of advertising will also arrive in Parliament, which is an important issue and, in my opinion, a place where the situation can be contained by further legislative changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-23_U44	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Korb on behalf of the Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-23_U45	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! This draft sets a ceiling for the percentage rate of charge for a credit agreement for consumers, i.e. it should not be asked for a higher percentage in the future. Basically, we define the rate of usury that is most welcome. The Centre Party has been in favour of this for years, and now I am pleased that the Government of the Republic has finally listened to us. In addition, the law prohibits the resolution of disputes arising from consumer credit agreements in arbitration. At the same time, the Centre Party continues to take the view that this is not enough because the non-regulated side-costs incurred when a person is in default have been excluded. Following fast lenders, sometimes it gets the impression that their commercial goal is not to get the loan back, but precisely to get rich through delayed loans. There are many people who took the EUR 100 fast loans, but thousands of euros have had to be paid back because of the various schemes, the large sidelines and the reminder rates. All of this can be done because there is no law on debt recovery in Estonia, according to which debt recovery cannot cause unreasonable costs or inconvenience to the debtor. So we do not have a measure to protect a borrower in a situation where entrepreneurs have once again developed a legally correct scheme to make more money on people in trouble. We believe that Estonia should set maximum amounts that may be required for sending a reminder or changing the payment schedule. For example, in Finland, the maximum reminder fee is 5 euros, while in Estonia, almost 15 euros are charged. In addition to the above, the Estonian legal system must introduce a measure protecting the consumer, which prevents the creditor from using certain remedies against the late consumer, for example if the delay is due to his illness, unemployment or other social circumstances of this kind. Finally, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the Estonian Consumer Protection Board exercises control over fast lenders. The general understanding is that, given the workload of the Consumer Protection Board, supervision is not effective enough and therefore this area is still uncontrolled. We believe that the transfer of supervision to the Financial Supervision Authority should continue to be very seriously considered. These are two issues which, unfortunately, this bill will not solve, but I hope that the amendments to the Riigikogu Chamber will soon arrive here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-23_U46	All of this is necessary to protect a person. These are concrete steps that we can take now and now. However, much remains to be done by reducing poverty and raising financial awareness. The Social Democrats want strength for both the government and the Riigikogu on this path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-23_U47	Thank you very much. Please, Neeme as representative of the Great Social Democratic Party!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-23_U48	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Speaking of fast-track loans, we must first talk about poverty. The fact that poverty is a daily and common phenomenon in Estonia is a sad fact. The fact that we have a lot of people who work full - time every day, work hard, but are still poor is also a fact. I believe that most of the time, it is not the pleasure, but the inevitability, that is, that is, that is, it's the fear of a high percentage of short-term loan. Yes, surely a number of people are also just thoughtless, especially when an attractive opportunity is put within reach and the obligation to repay is so insignificant. However, the best option is likely to be to increase the minimum wage up to EUR 800 and to reduce wage poverty. Raising the minimum wage and reducing the poverty of the workforce penetrates the roots of the problem of fast-track loans. Less poverty, less fast loans, less people trapped in loans. At the same time, however, we realise that it takes time to get to the root of the problem. Even when poverty is reduced, the problem is unlikely to disappear completely. Other countries, including countries that are far better off than us, such as the Nordic countries that are considered the most successful in the world, are struggling with fast-track loans. The next step in eliminating loan traps is to raise society's awareness, first and foremost, of consumers, people themselves, but also of the social responsibility and awareness of loan providers. Once again, awareness-raising is also a long-term process, which is essential, but it also may not guarantee the maximum result, but it still remains someone who is not sufficiently informed. The amendments to the Law of Obligations Act adopted last September addressed the issue of responsible lending in particular. At that time, we put pressure on good practice and on the lender's obligation to check the borrower's ability to cope with the consequences of the loan. The changes adopted last year say, among other things, that if the value of mutual obligations is unreasonably unbalanced against good manners, then it is assumed that one party knew or had to know the other party's extraordinary need, dependence, inexperience or other such circumstances. The draft submitted by the Social Democratic Party last year to set the percentage rate of charge was not approved by the Riigikogu at that time. The justification was, in particular, the question of the proportionality of restricting the freedom to conduct a business. It was also found that we could wait for the results of the restrictions that have just been imposed in Finland. It is now known that oppression of good practice did not produce sufficient results. The percentage rate of charge shall continue to be high or the amounts to be raised shall be hidden in other costs relating to the conclusion of a loan agreement or the recovery of the loan. Freedom to conduct a business is in any case a value for which to stand, but it cannot be an absolute criterion. The number of people who have fallen into the loan trap continues to grow; the number of individuals bankruptcies is increasing. We also know that the restrictions applied in Finland have produced good results, that the number of fast-lenders has decreased, that the number of fast-lenders has decreased by nearly a third. This is the time to take the necessary steps in Estonia. The draft initiated by the Government of the Republic, which is currently under discussion today, talks in particular about setting the rate of charge for fast-track loans. The draft includes other necessary regulations to protect the consumer. Drafts are still under preparation to limit recovery costs and clarify the definition of default interest, limit the advertising of fast-track loans, impose an authorisation obligation on consumer credit companies and clarify supervision.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-23_U49	Can we give you more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-23_U50	Thank you. Very precisely, very precisely within the time frame. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 713. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft. a on 6 November 2006 at 4 p.m. Our agenda today has been exhausted. I wish everyone a beautiful day and see you next week. Closure of the sitting at 11.06.
