ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Honourable ministers! Good afternoon. Let's start today's briefing. First, we'll do a presence check. 42 members of the Riigikogu have registered in Question Time on 8 October; no 59. The following members of the government will take part in today's Question Time: Minister of Defence Sven Mikser in the role of Prime Minister, Minister of the Environment Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Minister of Foreign Trade and Entrepreneurship Anne Sulling.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U2	Let's go to today's questions. The first is Urmas Reinsalu's question to Minister of Defence Sven Mikser of the Prime Minister's role. The subject is the situation in the country. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U3	Thank you. Mr. Minister for Defence in his duties as Prime Minister. My question concerns people's incomes. There are over 300,000 people in Estonia whose monthly income is less than 800 euros. The incomes of people doing work are one of the central problems for Estonia's future; people must be able to live out of their wages. The Fatherland and Res Publica Association have proposed their own solution, a tax reform that takes account of low-paid residents. People receiving up to EUR 500 should no longer pay income tax, while other low-paid people would be subject to a tax-free minimum, which would be higher than today. What is the position of the Government of the Republic in relation to this proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U4	The position of the Government of the Republic on the issue of so-called labour poverty as a whole is similar to that of the opposition of the parliament. It is certainly not normal to consider a person to have a full-time job as well as to receive a salary for that job, but is forced to apply for subsistence allowance from the state or the municipality because of the distress. The problem of pay poverty must be resolved. Your party has proposed a vision of how this could be done. My party has also announced its position. The Government of the Republic's policy as a whole, including the draft state budget for next year, is trying to solve the problem of poverty more broadly, including more narrowly, the problem of labour poverty, as far as possible. I must say that this is not the position of the Government of the Republic to me personally, because the government office has not discussed the issue in such a key; it is a more heartfelt attempt to increase people's incomes. It is not right to accept that we have many people who are unable and unable to receive a higher salary than EUR 500 and who therefore only have to rely on tax incentives to alleviate their distress. However, as a Social Democrat, I agree with you that the Estonian tax system as a whole could be more progressive and take more account of people's ability to pay taxes. But as for the specific solution on how to make the income tax system more progressive, we have a somewhat different approach to this.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U5	Thank you. Please, Urmas Reinsalu, the first point to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U6	Thank you. Mr. Minister for Defence in his duties as Prime Minister. The tax reform of low-paid workers would mean an additional income of EUR 69 per month for people who earn EUR 500 per month. I think that all of us must contribute to supporting economic growth and raising the overall wage levels of people in Estonia by means of higher-value jobs. But it is a question of concrete steps to improve the livelihood of people on low incomes. The IRL has provided a concrete solution. As Chairman of the Social Democratic Party, do you support the idea of increasing the income tax-free minimum for people with low wages?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U7	As far as my personal opinion is concerned, I certainly support the principle that the tax system as a whole and the income tax of the individual should take greater account of the real ability of people to pay taxes. The scheme you have proposed is quite complex, with a lot of very small steps. For example, the part of income that is above EUR 500 is already EUR 501 taxed not by 20% but by 40% according to your scheme. This is certainly neither reasonable nor optimal. If you want to know my personal opinion on the progressive tax system, I think that, in fact, such a tax reform could strive for a balance between revenue and expenditure in the budget. This relief, given to people on very low incomes in the form of a tax reduction, should certainly be compensated on the revenue side of the budget. Your scheme, as far as I know, doesn't take this side of the problem into account. It would be responsible if you found a cover for this step on the revenue side of the budget. Your party has offered a number of very costly cost-effective measures that should be launched now and immediately. I share the concern that a number of measures need to be covered in the budget's expenditure line, and I think that this is certainly not the most sensible solution if we take a single breath of a major reform that leads to 140 or 250 million budget revenue estimates and, on the other hand, to propose more 'costs' that require the same amount of additional resources. It does not support the objective of budgetary balance.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U8	Thank you. Please, Urmas Reinsalu, the second point of clarification!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U9	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of Defense in charge of the Prime Minister! According to the IRL's tax reform proposal, no low-paid person will have to pay a higher tax rate than is currently the case. On the contrary, all those with low wages will win. As far as the sources of cover are concerned, the IRL has such a plan that, when planning the state budget responsibly in the coming years, it will be possible to carry out this reform on the basis of the financial opportunities that the Estonian state has. The Government of the Republic has proposed its own idea: within three years, all people are expected to solve the issue of low-paid people by 10 euros by raising the income tax-free minimum. My question is this: are you in favour of this ten-euro model, or do you believe that it would be easier for low-wage people to cope if a significantly higher exemption for low-wage earners was chosen instead of the solution proposed by the Government of the Republic?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U10	As you know very well, the solution you propose will lead to today's level of tax burden. The income range of EUR 800.900 per month would actually be double-taxed: every euro over EUR 500 will indeed be double-taxed. As far as solving the problems of low-paid people is concerned, my personal understanding is that the most sensible thing is to help them reach a higher level of pay, to increase their income. Personally, my party and I have proposed a completely different approach. We do not accept, in principle, that there are very many people in Estonia who, for other reasons, cannot or cannot do a job that could be paid for more than a minimum wage or more than 500 euros per month. We are in favour of a revenue policy agreement between the state, employers and employees. This would place an obligation on the country to implement active labour market measures, not only for the unemployed but also for continuing training and training for those who work, so that they can raise their qualifications. It also directs undertakings to take steps to enable them to pay significantly higher salaries to their employees than is currently at the bottom of the pay hierarchy. This is, in my opinion, a more sensible approach than admitting that small wages are inevitable in Estonia, and cheap labour is the engine of Estonia's development, and these people are being tried to help with either social benefits or the tax reform that you have proposed, so that they can still cope.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U11	Thank you. Now two issues registered on the spot. We have a lot of questions today, so we will limit ourselves to two issues registered on the ground. Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U12	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Prime Minister! Here's what I'm gonna ask. You have great plans and recipes to improve the situation. Social Democrats have repeatedly been in government over the last 20 years. Then why haven't you used these recipes before? In my opinion, our labour poverty is, and I would add, also, pension poverty with the pension that is now paid to the people, i.e. an average of EUR 330-340 per month, is impossible to live up to a long-known concern. Why haven't you put these plans into practice before and improved the situation? Now, in 23rd, suddenly you find that oh-oh, we're going to reschedule this thing tomorrow. Where have you been before, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U13	Honourable questioner! We are probably quite similar to the Prime Minister, but I am still the Minister of Defence in the prime minister's duties today. I am pleased that Estonia has such a multi-party parliamentary democracy and that all four parliamentary parties have repeatedly assumed the responsibility of governance over the years and, with few exceptions, have also been able to be in opposition over the last 15 years, doing the opposition's hard and responsible work. Of course, the Social Democrats have tried to solve the problems of social balance as a whole and of poverty by the means that are at the government's disposal, when we have been in the government coalition, and by all parliamentary means when we have been in opposition in Parliament. It is true that when it comes to governance, it is easier to implement measures designed to reduce poverty. For example, for many years, we spoke to quite deaf ears about the need to deal seriously with child poverty and to significantly increase the benefits for them. In Pruuk, we reached the government coalition and began to bear the responsibility of governance when the ten-year stand finally got out from behind the stump. From 1 January next year, child benefits will increase, for the first and second children the universal allowance will increase from EUR 19 to EUR 45. This is a significant step forward. So, with all the means at our disposal, we have tried to do this work in the best way, both in opposition in Parliament and in the responsibility of governance. I think that this should be the target and obligation of all Estonian political parties.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U14	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U15	Thank you. Dear Mr. Sven Mikser! I see that the government is currently in a comfort zone, because Estonia as a whole is dealing with the cohabitation law. But I have a great deal of concern for these 1 40,000 people, the disabled and their own, acquaintances and carers. Many of them go to Estonian meetings with crutches or wheelchairs on Saturday. Speaking to them, it has become apparent that they are not satisfied with the progress of the draft working capacity reform process, with its excessive speed. They have to work very hard, even at night and without money, they do the job. And it's all completely confusing, though, the whole system of assessment of work ability, the social services system. There is no money given to the municipalities, but there is nothing they can do without it. And, of course, jobs! There are no jobs for healthy or sick people, no one, no employers. Why are we running so fast with this law right now, can't we take a break?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U16	Just as with all legislative initiatives, the right things must certainly move forward as quickly as possible, while taking as much time as is necessary to achieve the best possible result for discussions. I too regret that this reform, which has already been put into the work of the previous government, has taken much longer than planned during its preparation period. This has put considerable pressure on work before the end of this Parliament. However, I hope that Parliament will be able to make this draft so good that the law can still be adopted during its membership. I know that a number of amendments have been made to the first draft of this package between Parliament's readings. However, as far as rehabilitation is concerned, there is certainly much debate ahead of us. I am absolutely convinced that no reform must take place at the expense of anyone or make anyone's situation worse. When we are talking, for example, about 'working on rehabilitation', the situation of people who need medical rehabilitation must certainly not deteriorate as a result. At the moment, the ball is in Parliament's hands, and if this composition considers that a satisfactory result has not actually been achieved during the procedure, then it is time for the delegates to take the time off. At the same time, this must be done in full knowledge and responsibility, understanding that in this case, the work of the next parliamentary term will be back to zero to a large extent, and the use of European Union money will then be less time, which will in turn put a great deal of pressure on the country and an obligation to do a very, very short period of work that has not been done so far. I very much hope that Parliament will act responsibly. I admit that the government could have done more work during the years in which this reform has been prepared, but we have a parliamentary cycle of fixed duration.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U17	Thank you. From now on, please limit your response to two minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U18	Let's go to the next question. Valeri Korb has asked the Minister for the Environment, Keit Pentus-Rosimud, about groundwater problems in Ida-Virumaa. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U19	Madam Minister! Ten oil shale mines have been flooded with groundwater in the central part of Ida-Virumaa, where chamber mining took place. Today, there is no systematic control of mining water migrating to an area of 300 square kilometres. This creates the drying of wells and the sprawling of land and poses a threat to the Kurtna-Vasavere and Peipsi regions. You can also talk about this in the territory of Jõhvi, Illuka and Mäetaguse rural municipality. In the perspective, I looked at these figures was that such an area could extend by 2035 to up to 1000 square kilometres. It is therefore necessary to carry out an investigation into the impact of centralised mining, covering a third of the mining area in Ida-Viru County. My question is what the Minister and the officials of the Ministry think about this situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U20	Good questioner! First of all, I would like to say that this concern is justified and that attention to the groundwater situation is certainly very important. Water is indeed one of those resources that cannot be replaced by anything else. If it is not, or if it is contaminated, it is not possible to replace it with anything other than clean water. This is one of the reasons why the condition of water, including groundwater, is particularly acutely addressed. As far as Ida-Virumaa is concerned, it is indeed some 300 square kilometres of territory affected by former oil shale mining. It will be increased by 4 to 6 square kilometres per year. So it is actually not right to say that by 2035 it will reach 1,000 square kilometers, but it will be a far too much of a prediction. However, the territory in which this effect occurs really continues to grow and therefore national groundwater monitoring in Ida-Virumaa is very careful. It can be said that this is the area where the most monitoring wells are located. If we as a whole have points where monitoring is carried out in the order of 350, then 140 of them are located in Ida-Virumaa. So the monitoring is very thorough. Of course, when we talk about mines, extractors themselves are already obliged, under the terms of the environmental permit, to monitor and monitor the situation very seriously, but in addition, national monitoring in Ida-Virumaa, namely in relation to groundwater, is also very thorough.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U21	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb, the first question to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U22	Thank you for your answer. Madam Minister! To this day, the causes of the pollution of one part of Kohtla-Järve with petrol and phenol have not been identified, and this situation has put the water supply in the region at real risk. Kohtla-Järve specialists have proposed a way to find a source of drinking water pollution. However, money is needed to carry out research on this and to produce projects. My question is this: can I count on the state to allocate the money needed for research?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U23	This problem with the water of the Valley is, frankly, an extraordinary anomaly. There is an exceptionally anomalous situation and an answer has been sought where exactly this pollution comes from, where it is. The answer has been sought by the local water company, the municipality, state agencies and experts, and indeed, the answer to what these sources of pollution are so far is not, as you probably know very well as a well-known person in local life. At the same time, it can actually be commended and confirmed by all concerned that cooperation has been very professional and urgent. It's all pretty well done. The Environmental Investment Centre allocated some money to carry out a specific study some time ago, but in addition, at the meeting of the Environmental Investment Centre's Supervisory Board, which ended last night, we decided to approve the urgent request that we had received. This is already actually the case with the construction of water supply in order to ensure that drinking water is of good quality for all in the region. The size of the facility is around one million euros, the money comes from the Environmental Investment Centre. Of course, the precondition is that the most economically efficient, most sensible solution is chosen, but one can be sure that after a while there will still be no problem due to the risk of pollution of the water source. But the decision to finance this solution was taken yesterday, so in that sense I am happy to give you good news.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U24	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb, the second point to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U25	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for the good news. My third question in today's Question Time also relates to the fact that the inhabitants of the Oru district were forced to take drinking water from a source of drinking water contaminated with petrol and phenol until October 2013 because of the fault of the national supervisory authorities. Unfortunately, the impact of the use of polluted drinking water on the health of the population, especially children and older people, has not been analysed so far. Since we do not have a Ministry of Health, who do you think should be working on improving the quality of drinking water in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U26	With this example of the Valley, we can again talk about how a water company is looking for a solution, who must certainly make sure that the source from which the water is taken is correct and that the drinking water supplied to consumers meets all the quality criteria. This solution is also being sought by the local government and, as representatives of the state, by both the Health Board and the Environmental Board. I cannot actually agree with the statement that, in your question, it sounded, namely, that this pollution there was caused by the fault of the State's supervisory services. I'm sure it's not right to say that. Whoever is responsible for the pollution, who exactly is responsible, has tried to find out who's involved. Nor can it be ruled out that pollution has been caused maliciously. This option, too, is completely on the table. However, I think that, in the case of the Valley, the most important thing right now is that normal water supply is guaranteed for the inhabitants of this area at the end of the day. And, as has been said, thanks to the request made on the ground, the Environmental Investment Centre decided yesterday to finance this work. I very much hope that the most technically sensible and most high-quality solution will soon be reached.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U27	Thank you. Now two issues registered on the spot. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U28	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! Eesti Energia held a conference in Jõhvi at the end of September, the theme of which was the pumping of mining water and the accompanying effects. There were researchers from the University of Tartu and Tallinn University of Technology, representatives of mines and mountain companies and, of course, the people of the Ministry. I found the reports of the Ministry very weak. Their performance was primitive, so black and white. I later found out what it might have been due to. Turns out there's no hydrogeologists at the Ministry. So how are these specialists elected? Are you going to do something about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U29	The Ministry's experts, also in water matters, are very competent in their field. It is difficult for me to comment on whether the expert's report from the Ministry of the Environment had been prepared in the most detailed manner at this particular event. But, indeed, these are highly qualified experts. In addition, we will certainly ask for advice and expertise from outside the Ministry of the Environment. On groundwater, we have an advisory committee, composed of experts, who are dealing with this particular issue. In addition to the Ministry's, there are plenty of experts outside our own administration. But it is important to encourage all experts who feel that they want to do something about the state apparatus. I very much hope that if we look for new people for our service, those experts who are sometimes very critical will come to the aid and provide their knowledge.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U30	Thank you. Please, Urbo Vaarmann!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question relates to the landfill of Vaivara, which ties well with the current issue. We went out with the Commission a few weeks ago and there were all kinds of facts on the ground. There was 15 times as much arsenic in the ditch water as it was promised. Very serious problems with the pumping station. EUR 185000 was spent to keep the water clean. The construction of the new pumping station costs approximately EUR 250000 and so far it is not known who will manage it. But my question, to which I have not yet received an answer, is this. Who's the person who's supposed to be responsible for putting up that old pumping station in the first place and all that shit?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U32	First of all, the number you referred to at about EUR 185000 was not the price of a particular device. That's how much the building cost with the equipment. But it is true that these devices built years ago no longer meet the requirements currently in force. In order to ensure proper water treatment at Vaivara's hazardous waste management centre, the management of the Environmental Agency, and the Ministry's Chancellor and other officials, quite recently took the job very seriously. During the last year, preparations for the Centre to be operational have been quite good. I admit I would like to see this problem resolved by now. It's taken more time than I've personally wanted. But for now, a new and high-quality cleaning plant that meets all the requirements has been tendered out. Those people who caused all this problem in coordination over the last decade are no longer working in the Ministry of the Environment or in its administration. The Environment Agency, which is active in this area, has also been fully reorganized itself. But the most important thing is certainly the fact that all the monitoring data confirm that the aquifer from which drinking water is taken has not been polluted in this area anymore. We're still talking about surface water, not groundwater. This is an important clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U33	Thank you. Let us close the debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U34	Let's go to the next question. Minister Sven Mikser wants to ask a question about government policy Kaia Iva. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U35	Dear Minister, I will return to the subject discussed in the first paragraph of this Question Time. The IRL has proposed tax exemptions or reductions for low-paid people. It is indeed the competence of the Riigikogu to decide this. You stressed that you have proposed an increase in the minimum wage at a rapid pace, but at the same time it is known that neither the Riigikogu nor the government can impose it. Unlike the reform that we have proposed, it is an agreement between trade unions and employers. What steps of government policy could then speedily increase the minimum wage, especially in a situation where entrepreneurs have confirmed that such a rate is not possible in Estonia's circumstances?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U36	The reduction of labour poverty is certainly a complex step that cannot be taken by a single decision, unfortunately not even in this Parliament. Tax laws can certainly be amended by Parliament's decisions. Whether they result in a reduction or loss of labour poverty and of poverty at all, this can be assessed differently from the point of view. Raising the minimum wage at a faster pace is certainly possible. As you rightly pointed out, the minimum wage has so far been agreed in Estonia by employers and employees, and the government has either accepted it or not. This agreement has been accepted in Estonia. In many Nordic countries, such as our neighbouring Finland, the government is much more active in dialogue on minimum wages. It would certainly be reasonable to have a broader income policy agreement for us in Estonia as well. This would not, of course, mean that the government tells businesses and employees how much minimum wage they have to agree on. I'm sure the government can't do that. However, the government can commit itself to labour market measures relating to further training for workers and to the contribution of the state, with the help of its officials, to improving the qualifications of private sector workers. The government can say that if employers and employees can agree on a faster pace of minimum wage increases, then the state is also prepared to commit itself to help those entrepreneurs who need state support.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U37	Thank you. Please, Kaia Iva, the first question to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U38	Thank you. I am pleased that you, too, have confirmed that the government really cannot unilaterally impose a minimum wage. Unfortunately, there has been such an impression from the statements that have been made so far. But I'll keep asking about the same subject. As you describe the work of employers, you have said in your interviews that entrepreneurs need to work better, they need to stop wasting and find additional savings. I just read your interviews. How do you feel that such, perhaps not the best tone, statements are a good start for agreements with businesses? Will it help to find a common direction to raise the minimum wage at the desired rate?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U39	It would certainly be a good start if you followed my statements, whether in the form of an interview or in public appearances, with greater attention and deepening. Under no circumstances have I blamed Estonian entrepreneurs. Estonian entrepreneurs are good entrepreneurs, innovative entrepreneurs. The Estonian business sector is very dynamic and will certainly be able to be even more dynamic in the future, to face even greater challenges than it has done so far. It is clear that some Estonian entrepreneurs already pay high competitive wages. In many sectors, however, wages are not only higher than the current minimum wage, but also higher than the 500 euros that you consider to be your magical limit and even the 800 euros that you set as the minimum wage for social democrats. It's nice and commendable. However, there are also certain business sectors, which are under strong pressure to prevent labour costs from growing quickly, where wages are regrettably so low that your party, which has generally looked very badly at tax differences, has found that they should be granted certain tax incentives, such as raising tax-free minimum rates. These companies certainly need more public help and attention to be able to raise wages at a faster pace. This is not an understatement of these companies. On the contrary, it is, in my opinion, a very good prerequisite for the state to understand the problems of these companies, to understand the problems of these sectors and to be able to give these companies a helping hand. To help them reach markets better, sell their products or services, help them raise their qualifications in cooperation with the State.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U40	Please, Kaia Iva, the second point of clarification!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U41	Thank you. Several of these groups of workers, who receive a pretty small salary, are directly linked to the public sector and depend on the state's contribution. For example, the salaries of social workers and orphanage workers are quite close to the minimum wage. But if we look at the state's contribution to the wage increase, I understand that next year the wage fund will grow by 3%. If the desire to raise the minimum wage is very rapid, is it not hypocritical for the state if it increases its own contribution relatively little, but still expects the minimum wage to rise? Are we not, at last, in the situation that even in the public sector, the wages of the low-wage earners do not rise high and remain in the minimum wage?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U42	Of course, there are also workers in the public sector who have low wages and suffer from difficulties in their livelihood. I'm sure their pay will have to rise. In general, it is clear that increases in private sector wages have an impact on public sector wages and vice versa. In Estonia, however, over the years, the problem has been that public sector wages are rising faster than those of the private sector. Looking at the increase in public sector wage expenditure in the budget for next year, the planned growth in the public sector will really be below the majority of the forecasts for private sector wage growth. However, this does not necessarily mean that the public sector's wage growth is lower than that of the private sector. For example, the Minister for Education has confirmed that he has found additional opportunities to raise teachers' salaries by more than the much-spoken 4.5%, to increase it by around 8%, which I think is commendable. In your previous question, you mentioned the need to optimise costs in private sector companies and to make work work more effective, so that wages can be increased at a faster pace. The public sector must be able to do the same. There must also be opportunities to make activities effective, to deploy internal reserves to hire the best, highly qualified workforce that can be paid competitive wages.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U43	Thank you. Now two issues registered on the spot. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U44	Thank you, manager. Minister of Defence in his duties as Prime Minister. I'm asking about the government's agricultural policy. The Minister of Agriculture is known to belong to the Social Democrats. Estonia is the only country in the European Union that does not pay its farmers the promised additional payments. In 2014, this support was zero and the damage caused by Russian sanctions is not compensated by the Estonian state. In the 2015 state budget, the number of farmers is zero again, but it could be 23 million euros. As we know, this year alone, Latvia supported its farmers with EUR 50 million. The Milk Union has submitted a request for additional aid to the Government because it is not possible to compete on the open and subsidised market at such prices. I ask how you think the Estonian farmer, or even the agricultural sector, can cope with this situation. Are you going to sink our most promising sector?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U45	First of all, I would like to thank you for the fact that, unlike the questioner who had registered the question 'Government policy', instead of asking about the plans of my party, you are really asking about government policy. Under no circumstances do I agree that there will be zero in the farmers' budget for next year. This is definitely a factual false claim that I reject. As regards, in particular, the measures that can be taken in the agricultural sector in order to ensure that the dairy sector is able to cope, despite Russia's retaliation, I would like to ask for a more precise, longer and comprehensive overview of this from the Minister for Agriculture, who will certainly be happy to pass it on to you. There are measures that can also be used in line with European Union policies, and there are measures that are more difficult to implement. But both the Minister for Agriculture and, in my opinion, the Minister for Foreign Trade and Enterprise have done a good job to help farmers find alternative markets and cope with the effects of sanctions. Certainly the government will continue to do so in the best way possible under our resources and within the framework of the European Union's agricultural policy. But I do not agree, in principle, with your statement that the budget is zero on the farmers' line.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U46	Thank you. The second issue registered on the spot. Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U47	Mr Secretary of Defence in his duties as Prime Minister. You certainly agree that only an internally coherent and stable society can be safe. The government sent a bill to the Riigikogu to eliminate the automatic reproduction of stateless people, to ease the requirements of the National Certificate of Language Proficiency for people over 65 years of age and to solve the humanist threat of taking Estonian citizenship under age against his will. But what other steps do you think you need to take in order to give our countrymen, who live in Estonia on the basis of a permanent residence permit, a clear understanding that we do not suspect them, but are in favour of them and would like them to be on our side? The number of permanent residents of the Russian Federation in Estonia is now increasing from year to year.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U48	Thank you for that question. I think that, in principle, in the best possible way, you have summed up the approach on which any policy taken by the state towards the people who live here and have undefined citizenship should be based. Yes, by concluding a coalition agreement, the government coalition agreed that the restoration of citizenship should be stopped. Children of two undefined citizenships who are born in Estonia must automatically receive Estonian citizenship; parents need not express their wish. So we're going from the so-called application procedure to the opt-out procedure. We have also decided to simplify the procedure for applying for citizenship for people over 65 years of age, and indeed to solve this problem, which has caused a great deal of discussion some time ago, where the minor, who had already been granted Estonian citizenship and who had also declared his wish to be an Estonian citizen, was decided to withdraw citizenship for certain bureaucratic and legal reasons. Certainly, however, the most important thing is that the so-called body language of the Estonian state would not say that we are completely indifferent and neutral on the question of whether people living here with undefined citizenship will one day become citizens of Russia or Estonia. I am quite critical of the lats set too low, according to which we should aim to achieve, by 2020, 29 years after the restoration of independence, a situation where there are over 80,000 non-citizens in Estonia. Surely we must not say that we should have a better Russian passport then than an Estonian passport. It is a complex policy, it needs a complex approach, but under no circumstances must we give any political decision to the people who live here and who could potentially be our fellow citizens the signal that they are not expected to be among us, is not welcome.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U49	Thank you. I will conclude the debate on this subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U50	Let us go to the next issue, which is foreign trade. The question is addressed to Anne Sulling, Minister of Foreign Trade and Entrepreneurship. The questioner is Mikhail Korb. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U51	Thank you. Madam Minister! That's the question. After the Russian quotas were introduced, you promised to look for new markets for Estonian agricultural products. In this Chamber, the Prime Minister confirmed that these markets have already been found and that new sales contracts will be concluded immediately. But with the countries and the volume of these agreements, he did not know how to respond. I want to ask you how it is. What are the developments and have new markets been found?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U52	Thank you. Politics and business cannot always be done in the same way in the sense that business can be spoken of when transactions are made. If all the details are provided before the transaction takes place, then the transaction may not take place at all. What have we done? We have done that on the first day that we heard about sanctions, I asked the dairy union to draw up a starting point and to record how much milk there is and what the products are that should be sold. Products go to other foreign markets in a different form than to Russia, where delivery times could be shorter. We sent this initial assignment to our embassies all over the world, as well as honorary consuls. These are the contacts that have been transmitted to the dairy union. For my part, I've been doing sales, and we've gotten pretty far. The situation is that, about a month ago, we sent out our own product models, I do not mention the specific market at first, it is outside the European Union, they were suitable, and the details are currently being negotiated. In November, there will be visits to our companies, which are active in production, to see if everything is in line with the standards. So I am optimistic about the fact that we will find new markets and that our production will move away from the Russian market in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U53	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Korb, the first question to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U54	Thank you. Reading your speeches in the media gives the impression that you were more optimistic than you are now. But I am no longer asking about these markets, I understand that you do not want to say them, but I am asking what the working schedule is in terms of time. If this is a business secret right now, when are we all gonna find out? In December, January or March? And what kind of volumes are these?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U55	I just mentioned they're coming to see our production in November. We'll probably let you know what the market is before that. I'd say November.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U56	Thank you. And please, Mikhail Korb, the second point of clarification!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U57	Then I promise I'll ask you again after November. But right now, I'm asking you this. The Food and Veterinary Office sent letters specifically to Indonesia, Taiwan, Kenya and Tanzania asking for import requirements for milk producers. Why is such a choice made? Why these countries? Has there been any analysis of this?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U58	These are the countries from which there has been an indication that they might have an interest.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U59	Are you done answering? Got it. Thank you. Now let us go to two issues registered on the ground. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U60	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I also have a question about foreign trade. We had a meeting this morning in the Group with the people of Finance Estonia. They had an interesting proposal on how to create new jobs in Estonia with the support of foreign trade or, rather, foreign markets. Even in the financial sector, it turns out, we have a reduced number of jobs because banks optimize their services, shut down their offices, etc. Could we have a perspective on the export of financial services, the provision of group support services, asset management services, private banking? We have specialists who may not have jobs anymore because banks are also optimized. Can we have a perspective on foreign markets in this area? What can the government do to promote this sector? At present, exports of financial services account for only 2% of total exports of services.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U61	It is true that the number of our banks and other financial institutions has decreased over time. The number of people working in this sector has also decreased. However, their competence remains. One area where the state is trying to help people with so-called financial competence implement is what EAS is doing to attract foreign investments into Estonia to create financial services centres in our country. Several so-called multi-nationals have brought their accounting activities to Estonia, so-called back office activities, and thanks to this, some former bankers have found jobs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U62	Thank you. Please, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U63	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister of Entrepreneurship! It is important for Estonian companies to export, sell their goods and services. Several international organisations, the IMF, the European Commission, the OECD, have said that we should pay very much attention to our low-paid workers. These measures, which we would implement to reduce the tax burden on people on low wages, would also help us to develop entrepreneurship and improve people's livelihoods. I have a question for you. The IRL has come up with proposals for income tax exemptions for low-paid people. It would leave more money to people and also develop entrepreneurship. What, though, is the vision of the government? What measures does the government envisage in the near future to promote entrepreneurship and reduce the tax burden on low-paid people?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U64	Looking at entrepreneurship, the overall goal is to get a higher salary. That's what everyone wants. Therefore, we should deal with what is a prerequisite for Estonian companies to create jobs with higher wages. In order to be able to pay a higher salary, our companies will have to sell products with higher value added than they have before, then profit margins will also be higher and they will be able to pay a higher salary. In order to support this, EAS has provided support for the whole of the palette during the forthcoming budget period, which has focused specifically on research development and product development. On the one hand, innovation shares are for companies so that they can go to designers and engineers to deal with product development. On the other hand, the focus is on supporting export activities. These are the prerequisites that should ensure that we reach global markets. Of course, the state cannot do everything here; it is still the responsibility of the companies to carry out product development. The state can send a signal and set up background measures, as we have done in EAS. But the ball is now in the hands of companies: the initiative must be taken and the promotion of product development and global sales and marketing competence must be undertaken.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U65	Thank you. I will close the debate on this issue, with two questions on the ground.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U66	We are going to the next issue, which is social cohesion. The question is for Secretary of Defense Sven Mikser and the questioner is Jaak Allik. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U67	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. In recent times, a number of minority problems have arisen in society. There has also been talk about the ethnic minority in relation to the socialist proposals to promote integration. One example is the question of the right to sell 0,2 hectares of garden land in gardening cooperatives near Narva. With regard to the Cohabitation Act, much attention has been paid to sexual minorities. It has been said that this is not the right time to deal with these problems, given the strained international situation, because it divides society. Yesterday, Mr Reinsalu, President of the IRL, repeatedly confirmed this position in this Chamber. What is your opinion on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U68	Certainly, in a democratic society, there cannot be a time and a time for defending the rights of minorities. Just as democracy must be promoted and maintained every day and go to sleep in the evening and get up in the morning to start rebuilding and sustaining it, just as it is with the protection of minorities. Definitely democracy, as the classics have said, is a poor system, but all the other systems are much, much worse. One important principle of democracy is certainly that a majority can decide, but one very important principle of today's democracy is also that the majority does not make decisions that undermine the rights of minorities. So this work must certainly be done and the rights of minorities must be guaranteed and protected, both when the security situation is strained and when things are calmer. Speaking specifically of this time, we can say that the external security situation around us is really strained. And this changed security situation will certainly last for a very long time. To say that we are delaying the integration of our minorities into society or guaranteeing their rights over the years or even decades, it cannot be acceptable and is under no circumstances responsible.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U69	Since time is pressing, Jaak Allik can submit a very short supplementary question. And hopefully the answer will also be brief. We're about to talk about the same thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U70	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. In recent days, we have been confronted with acute statements of intolerance against fellow countrymen of a different sexual orientation. I mean the slogans, the demonstrations, and also the ones we receive. I fear that such an attitude will result in wider intolerance of a different kind, which would also be evident in the case of a different colour, religion or nationality. What have we done wrong in our school education and what should be done differently nationally to get rid of the image of intolerance that has become quite a serious problem for Estonians, given the numerous sentiments of nationalists who have moved from here to Western Europe?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U71	Thank you. I am afraid that this question will not allow a very short and exhaustive answer. But I think that everyone can start from themselves to be tolerant and open and think twice before saying anything. Perhaps it can offend and wound another person. Parliament, too, certainly, has the opportunity not to be a jogger behind public opinion, but to take a responsible position. As our history has shown, for example, a tone of the debate on the abolition of the death penalty in its own time, public opinion is also prepared to follow these steps and to understand them. But regardless of how this hall will vote tomorrow, I very much hope that this law will be passed, the public will have to continue to explain and I am afraid to continue for quite a long time. As I said, minorities must be protected every day, all the time, just as democracy must be maintained and developed every day. And on this road neither Parliament nor the government must get tired.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U72	Thank you very much. I will conclude the debate on this issue, and I will also conclude Question Time. We're getting ready for the hearing. Thank you to the ministers.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U73	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will begin the session of the fourth working week of the 8th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U74	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, I have the honour to submit a draft law amending the Citizenship Act to the proceedings of the Riigikogu. In recent days, weeks and months, there have been particularly many debates about solidarity and tolerance, about a place under the sun. Perhaps that is why it seems that society is also willing to discuss the amendment of the Citizenship Act. With our draft, we offer to amend § 6 of the current Citizenship Act, adding a provision that people who were born in Estonia or settled in Estonia before 20 August 1991 can apply for Estonian citizenship without a compulsory examination of Estonian language and without an examination that will verify the knowledge of the Citizenship Act. If we want to prove our tolerance and solidarity, this is possible, helping them to a large extent by 100,000 people. We really need solidarity and accession to external threats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U75	Thank you. There are no more drafts to deliver. On behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted a draft law. The Board of the Riigikogu decides to accept this procedure in accordance with the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. Currently 76 members of the Riigikogu have registered as present and there are no 25 members of the Riigikogu. Let's clarify today's agenda. Yesterday we failed to discuss the first reading of the draft draft law on partnership initiated by the members of the Riigikogu on the adoption of the draft law on partnership (650 SE) submitted by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U76	Let's continue the negotiations. I would like to ask the representative of the Social Democratic Party Group, Indrek Saare, for a speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U77	Ladies and gentlemen, There have been many emotional expressions on this subject, which we discussed yesterday in this Chamber and we are probably discussing today and tomorrow, and there have been very many hit and less hit metaphors. I'm trying to talk about things with as few emotions as possible. Urmas Reinsalu, defending the IRL Group's proposal to put this issue to a referendum, spoke of the need to seek a compromise. As a theatre person, as an actress, I have learned that when the role is analysed, you must try to look behind words, you must try to see what these words are trying to achieve. It is not just a text to listen to, but an analysis of why a person speaks one thing or another, because one thing is often said, but something else is being achieved. I've been here in the Riigikogu for quite a while, and maybe I've stayed here hopelessly long, because I'm about to run out of working time for the second term. Thanks to this, I have seen Urmas Reinsalu, who has been in the Riigikogu much longer than I have, achieve his political goals by means of various means and different rhetoric. Perhaps because of all this, I do not want to believe that when Urmas Reinsalu offered us a compromise search here, he was sincere. I have a very serious doubt about that. It all seems more two-faced to me. Urmas Reinsalu repeatedly wondered in his presentation and in answering questions why the initiators of the bill did not propose that it be possible to register the same-sex marriage in Estonia (I regret that Urmas Reinsalu himself now went out of the hall) and claimed that it was two-faced. In fact, those who may think that it is time for the same sexes to get married in Estonia were prepared to compromise. It is precisely as a compromise that all families, any family model, should be adequately protected. It was not intended to go so far as to raise the question of whether the institution of marriage, in its current form, had lived up to its own time or whether we should discuss it. They proposed a compromise, contrary to what was done by the IRL Group, which offered a referendum, although they would have had the opportunity to propose their compromises for the second reading of the draft law 650. The IRL Group did not make any amendments; they did not formulate any compromises. After all, no attempt to reach a compromise has actually been made. Let us think about what this referendum would do and what a postponement of this decision would do. Urmas Reinsalu also suggested that we think, as well as the compromise compromise proposal, that we should not announce a referendum, but interrupt the second reading of the draft 650. Both of these proposals serve one purpose: to polarise society as much as possible in the pre-election period and to make one subject concerning the protection of minority rights, which actually affects... I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U78	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U79	... the lives of quite a few people in Estonia, but what is, of course, very important for these people, a big election topic. It is intended to demonstrate and declare its conservative world view, but it will make society more polarised. The call for a compromise in society is, unfortunately, twofold. Just as it was two-faced that if the same hall here decided, for example, the ESM issue, which most Estonian people felt should not have joined, the IRL Group did not think that this issue should be put to a referendum. Similarly, at the end of 2011, almost did not discuss this very topical issue, drinking in public places, because the IRL rushed through the law of order, which legalised it, before the forthcoming elections. It is also a very emotional subject that matters to a lot of people. But then there was no proposal for a referendum. Where were you, honourable members of the IRL Group, headed by Urmas Reinsalu, then? Why did we not hold a referendum on this? But I'll come back to today's topic. Tarmo Tamm asked what right it had been for 650 initiators and supporters of the bill to do so, where their mandate is. He claimed that no one had a mandate to do so. Tarmo Tamm! I must say to you and to all those who have asked this rhetorical question, some have not done so perhaps in a rhetorical way, but in essence, that the Social Democrats have asked for the most straightforward mandate that can be asked at all. In the 2011 election programme of the Social Democratic Party, the will that we are proposing here through this bill has been clearly declared. It clearly states that our aim is to modernise the laws on family relations in order to ensure that the rights of all types of families are protected. That's what this bill does. So we have asked for a mandate for this in the most public and simplest way possible. Now to what we propose. Our proposal is not to address an issue that is not meant to enable as many people as possible to speak as argumentably and calmly as possible before the elections. At the same time, peace, fortitude and the knowledge that the state cares about them, including the whole of the country, must be given to those to whom this is a very important issue that is very important to them. We do not believe that there is a need to stall, it is not necessary to go along with the IRL proposal to hold a referendum on this issue, but to reject it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U80	Thank you. Any more calls? I'm closing the negotiations. There will now be a vote. We're preparing for the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, which is in favour of reconciling the draft resolution of the Riigikogu 'Organisation of a referendum on the draft law on partnership initiated by members of the Riigikogu (650 SE)'and the procedure of the draft law on partnership 650? Please take a stand and vote. 35 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 42 against and no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. The draft will fall out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U81	Agenda item 2 is Aare Heinvee, Aivar Riisalu, Arto Aasa, Barbi Pilvre, Eiki Nestori, Enn Eesmaa, Heljo Pikhofi, Imre Sooääre, Indrek Saare, Jaak Alliku, Jüri Jaansoni, Jüri Morozov, Kadri Simson, Kalle Jents, Kalle Pallingu, Karel Rüütli, Kristen Michal, Laine Randjärve, Lauri Laas, Lauri Luige, Mailis Repsi, Maimi Bergi, Marianne Mikko, Mart Meri, Mati Raidma, Meelis Mälbergi, Neeme Suur, Olga Sõtnik, Rainer Vakra, Rait Maruse, Rait Vassijevi, Rein Aidma, Remo Holsmer, Tarmo Leinamme, Tatana Jaansoni, Tiina Lokk-Tramgi and Valdo Randpere's second reading of the draft Act. I ask for a presentation of the Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Neeme Suur. I'm sorry! Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U82	Madam President, please explain to me! A moment ago, there was a vote on whether to merge these two drafts. The decision was not to merge; these drafts were separate. But we didn't vote out that last bill 704 or what it was. We didn't make that decision. Explain how this decision came, which led to it! I don't understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U83	I'll get it. If the proposal for reconciliation receives a majority of votes in favour, the Riigikogu supports the reconciliation of the procedure between the draft law and the draft decision, and the joint procedure of the drafts is followed in accordance with § 129 (3) of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures. If the proposal does not receive a majority of the votes cast, the Riigikogu does not support the reconciliation of the procedure between the draft law and the draft decision, the draft decision shall be deemed to be rejected and shall fall outside the procedure (§ 129 (4)). Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U84	This means that it is possible to vote on some other decision on the draft and, as a result, this option, which you do not formulate from the remote control, will come true. I've been running the council, but I can't imagine how I'd explain it there. Is it difficult simply to put this bill to the vote in order to get a clear idea of who is in favour of it in the Chamber and who is opposed? What's all this for? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U85	The question is that these drafts are linked. The title of draft 704 also refers to draft law 650. Since it is not possible to reconcile them at the moment, because the hall voted against it, it is not possible to continue to deal with draft 704. This is not what I have come up with here on the ground, but is due to § 129 (4) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs Act. If the reconciliation does not receive a majority of the votes cast, the draft decision shall be excluded from the procedure if it is possible, the drafts shall be reconciled and shall continue to be dealt with together. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U86	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, As rapporteur for the Commission, I will give an overview of what took place in the Committee on Legal Affairs between the first reading and the second reading of the draft. The Commission dealt with the draft at its three meetings. The meetings took place on 11th, 16th and 18th September. Before that, another event took place on August 27th. It was a public opinion seminar involving 47 people from outside the Riigikogu and the Riigikogu. I shall now go to the meetings of the Commission. On Thursday, 11 September, a hearing took place between the representatives of the organisations issuing the opinion. Igor Gräzin, members of the Commission, Priit Sibul, Mr Jüri Morozov, Mr Kalle Jents and Mr Valdo Randpere, alternate member of Mr Marko Pomerants, and Linnar Liivamägi, adviser to the Commission, took part in the meeting of the Commission. The Estonian Council of Churches, Estonian Human Rights Centre, Children's Protection Association, the Estonian Association for the Protection of Sexual Minorities, the Estonian LGBT Society, the Institute of Human Rights, the Oma Room of NGO, the Estonian Sexual Health Association, the Estonian Christian Pentecostal Church, the Estonian Methodist Church and the Foundation for the Protection of Family and Tradition. There were at least two of them. Representatives of the Chamber of Notaries and the Ministry of the Interior were also present. They explained their views. The representatives of the Estonian Council of Churches first explained their views. In my opinion, the greatest concern remained about the way in which human dignity and freedom of expression are dealt with in society after the adoption of the law. Speaking was directed at whether those who preach a traditional approach to the family would be able to speak freely later. The representative of the Estonian Human Rights Centre welcomed the raising of issues concerning the interests of the child and the protection of the family. He said that he considered the safety of the child important and what parents can offer the child. A representative of the Association for the Protection of Sexual Minorities considered it important to stress that the debate on same-sex cohabitation has fallen behind in time, as such families already exist in society. The representative of the Chamber of Notaries also explained his views. He said that they were primarily from a legal point of view and possible practical implementation of the draft. He pointed out, for example, the problem of identifying residence and pointed out that 1 January 2015 was too early for the law to enter into force. The representative of the Child Welfare Association wanted the child to receive special attention in the draft. A representative of the Estonian LGBT Society explained that there are already couples and families where children are raised by parents of the same sex. The representative of NGO Oma Tuba found that the state could meet minorities and defend their rights. The representatives of the Estonian Sexual Health Association, or women's doctors, supported the draft from the battlefield, as they themselves said. The representative of the SA Family and Tradition Protection was against the bill. He discussed moral issues in society, including moral awareness, and expressed the view that the limit of moral conduct in society was becoming increasingly blurred. He thought that family didn't involve same-sex relationships, but relationships between husband and wife. He also feared that this was a rewriting of the institution of marriage. The representative of the Ministry of Internal Affairs considered that the deadline for implementing the draft, 1 January 2015, was too early as changes to the registration and related laws had to be developed. He was just pointing out the date of entry into force. The representatives of the Institute of Human Rights took the view that the draft should be substantially amended and supplemented and that the second reading of the draft should therefore be interrupted. There was a discussion. For example, my colleague, Randpere, asked how other Christian churches, such as the Swedish Church, cope with this situation when same-sex partnerships are tolerated. He received a reply from the representative of the Estonian Council of Churches that tolerance for same-sex cohabitation is an absolute minority in the Christian world. Kalle Jents asked if it was a mistake to address the relationship between couples of different sexes in this draft. He was told by a representative of the Association for the Protection of Sexual Minorities that this was not a mistake because it enriches the possibilities of heterosexual couples. I was interested in whether the participants thought that unregistered partnerships were causing problems in Estonia. The women's doctors thought it would. The representative of the Chamber of Notaries reiterated that they are not opposed to same-sex marriage, but this is a loophole and the partnership agreement is not suitable for regulating family life. Priit Sibul asked the ladies' doctors about the benefits this bill would bring to couples of different sexes. The answer was that this would give them an alternative way of registering their partnership. Varro Vooglaid thought that since this bill required the registration of a partnership, it would not help ordinary couples. Priit Sibul also expressed the opinion that homomarriages registered abroad are recognised as valid in Estonia in relation to this bill, in the sense that we already recognise these marriages. The discussion was long and lasted for several good hours. I'm not exactly describing everything. If anyone wants to clarify something, it will be possible later in the round of questions and answers. The second meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs took place on Tuesday 16 September. The purpose of this meeting was to examine the amendments. The members of the committee, Marko Pomerants, Igor Gräzin, Jüri Morozov, Kalle Jents, Mikhail Korb, Priit Sibul Ken-Marti as an alternate member, Peeter Võsa and Valdo Randpere, and Commission advisor Linnar Liivamägi took part in the meeting. Susann Mikli, Adviser to the Department of Private Law of the Ministry of Justice, and Väino Linde, Member of the Riigikogu, were invited to the meeting. By 12 September, we received six amendments from three members of the Riigikogu: two amendments from Igor Gräzin, one from Väino Linde and three from Valdo Randpere. We did not take decisions in this sitting, but we listened to the authors of the amendments and examined the amendments. Mr Gräzin presented his amendments. Igor Gräzini and Väino Linde's proposals were partly similar. Part of their proposals concerned only special-sex couples. Igor Gräzin's second proposal concerned the right to conclude a partnership agreement. At the moment, there is a ban on close relatives from concluding a partnership agreement with each other, and Igor Gräzin's proposal was to abolish this ban. We have examined the positions of the representative of the Ministry of Justice and, with his help, the amendments prepared. They were also the subject of quite a debate, focusing on the position of children and the concept of family. As a result of the discussion, it was found that in order to strengthen the position of children, the draft will talk about regulating the relationship within the family rather than regulating the relationship between partners. Attention was given to the issue of adoption and the paragraph on adoption was clarified. Marko Pomerants wondered if they were trying to define the concept of family. He received the answer that he would not try, the family is a non-legislative concept, but since this concept also includes children, it will help children to be better protected under the bill. Marko Pomerants was also interested in what is meant by the term 'extremely unfair', which has been used for adoption. He replied that 'extremely unfair' means that in certain rare cases, the court has the right to decide differently and gives the court flexibility. Marko Pomerants also asked why it is intended to exclude a change in succession from the draft. The answer was that it was written in the law of succession. The implementation part of the draft was discussed by the Commission and it was clarified that the draft could enter into force on 1 January 2016, together with implementing acts. Marko Pomerants also asked where they were allowed 87 amendments that had to be made to the draft. He replied that these amendments did not appear at the moment, but were introduced by means of separate implementing acts. At the third meeting of the Commission, decisions were taken on the amendments as well as procedural decisions. Commission members Marko Pomerants, Tiina Lokk-Tramberg as Igor Gräzin's alternate members, Jüri Morozov, Kalle Jents, Priit Sibul Ken-Marti as alternate members, Mikhail Korb, Peeter Võsa and Valdo Randpere, and Commission advisers Linnar Liivamägi and Raini Laide participated in the meeting. Susann Mikli, Adviser to the Department of Private Law at the Ministry of Justice, was also invited. I am now going through the amendments that came up with a solution at this committee meeting. I will start with the amendments tabled by the deadline. Mr Randpere had tabled three amendments. He withdrew his first amendment concerning the title of the draft. His other amendments, Nos 10 and 16, were supported by substance. Two amendments tabled by Mr Gräzini, No 2 and No 5, were not supported by the Commission. Amendment 2 provides that only relations between persons of different sexes should be regulated. However, this would not be in line with the general concept of gender neutrality of the draft. The second amendment by Mr Gräzin concerned the admissibility of a partnership agreement between close relatives. This, too, was not supported. The reason was that this would create legal confusion, as relationships between close relatives are regulated and partnerships under the partnership agreement could begin to cover these regulations. Amendment 3 by Väino Linde was not supported by the same reasoning as Igor Gräzin's first proposal that it is not in line with the draft concept of gender neutrality. Now I will go through the amendments by subject. One of the major changes in the draft was the introduction of the concept of family. This concerns Amendments 11, 13, 14 and 21. This means that the concept of a family was used throughout instead of the concept of a partner. This amendment was the result of the feedback received on the draft, which complained that the draft did not respect children's rights, since the relationship between partners was regulated in particular. They asked where the baby was. In order to respond to this feedback, the concept of family was introduced into different sections. For example, I would like to mention Amendment 11, which states that partners are mutually obliged to support the family with their work and property and not to support each other. Paragraph 2 of that paragraph provides that maintenance shall include activities and financial contributions necessary to cover the costs of the common household and to meet the family's normal and special needs, in accordance with the family's living conditions. In any case, this includes children. The second block of amendments concerned the deletion of the rules on court proceedings. These are Amendments 7, 8 and 20, with amendment No 7 amending the wording of § 4, amendment No 8 deleting §s 6 and 7 and amendment No 20 deleting § 22. There is still so much to the exclusion that Amendment 17 also deleted § 17, i.e. the recognition of the right of succession in the draft. The next block of amendments concerned the matrimonial property register law. According to the amendments, the matrimonial property register will be referred to as the matrimonial property register. This means that the law on the matrimonial property register needs to be amended by means of implementing acts, as the property relationship defined in a partnership cannot be entered in the matrimonial property register because the partnership is not a marriage. I'm still talking about a few, but important changes. Amendment 4 made it clear that a sister and brother and half-sister and half-brother could not conclude a partnership agreement with each other. As regards the recognition of marriages concluded abroad, Article 7 of the Bill was rewritten by referring to the Private International Law Act on the subject. Amendment 12 introduced the order of maintenance. It is stipulated that maintenance is provided first by a registered partner, before relatives of the person. Amendment 15 specified the adoption. Amendment 23 fixed the date of entry into force: the law will enter into force on 1 January 2016, together with implementing acts. There was also a discussion on how to proceed with the draft decision 704. The committee agreed to specify with the Riigikogu's management and in accordance with the Constitution how this synchronization will take place. As a result of this clarification, today was the first vote on the referendum, and now we are processing this draft at second reading. At the third meeting of the Commission, procedural decisions were adopted. There was a proposal to put the draft on the plenary agenda on 7 October - yesterday - now it has shifted to today (by 5 and against 1). Secondly, it was proposed that the second reading be completed (by 5 and against 4). Thirdly, it was proposed that the draft be sent to third reading when the second reading is completed, on 9 October, i.e. tomorrow (by 5 and against 1). It was also proposed that the draft be put to the final vote at third reading (by 5 and against 1). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U87	Questions for the waitress. Please, Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U88	Thank you. On the basis of this draft, it is not possible for close relatives to conclude a partnership agreement. You have explained that the property relationships of close relatives are already regulated. In the same way, however, this bill precludes the possibility of a partnership agreement between those who, while being a brother and a sister biologically, no longer have any family relations due to adoption. They may not even know each other or know anything about each other. What are the reasons why people who do not have any legal or property implications are given the opportunity to enter into a partnership agreement? Why are they discriminated against?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U89	Thank you. They shall not be discriminated against. If someone is adopted, they are subject to all the same rights and obligations as a biological child. They are therefore unable to conclude a partnership agreement with each other.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U90	Andrus Island, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U91	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! We all, or at least most of us, remember the promises the Social Democrats made to government. One of them was greater involvement and consideration of citizens' opinions. Among the initiators of the Cohabitation Act are 14 representatives of the Social Democratic Party Group. Have the other initiators not taken your opinion into account, have you been struck by memory loss, or is that exactly what you meant about involving the people? You have said that the Committee on Legal Affairs, which you are chairing, held several meetings and meetings in the summer of a few months. Do you think that the activities of the initiators and the Commission have had enough involvement and consideration of the opinion of the citizens, and that the feedback is just as you expected? On the basis of the information you have received, do you think that we could now send Estonia's traditional family model to the trash bin?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U92	Thank you. As regards the trash of Estonia's traditional family model, I do not agree with you. I think nothing will happen to Estonia's traditional family model. I guess tradition and tolerance fit next to each other. As far as inclusion is concerned, we really had a public seminar with 47 participants, and all the organisations that expressed an opinion were invited to present their views to the Commission meeting. It was quite intense and lively, and I believe it was enlightening and educational. Direct changes were also made to the draft on the basis of these seminars and meetings. I give an example of the presentation by the docent Dagmar Kutsar of the University of Tartu, which revealed that the University of Tartu has specifically studied children's opinions about the family, father and mother, biological and non-biological parent. For example, children's opinions on adoption have been studied, including how they would view adoption into the same-sex family. These were all very educational and enlightening speeches, which led to changes in the draft. As this discussion has also been very intense in public, I would like to thank all civil society organisations who have been very forceful and careful in helping to publicise the draft, I believe that both the public and the members of the Riigikogu have been sufficiently informed and the organisations involved have been able to participate.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U93	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U94	Thank you, Mr President. Neeme! Paragraph 1 (2) provides that a partnership contract may be concluded by persons of legal capacity.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U95	Yeah!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U96	Paragraph 5 (2) provides for the possibility that a partnership agreement may not be declared invalid if the requirement of adulthood has been infringed, but the partner accepts the partnership agreement when he or she becomes an adult. I mean, a man from Estonia brings a 13-year-old girl from the Kingdom of Thailand who has forged documents, enters into a partnership agreement and, in five years' time, although he is a pedophile and a criminal within the meaning of the Penal Code, he is exempt from liability. Who needs these provisions? Who does this law really protect?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U97	Thank you. In paragraph 5, regulation is similar to that of the Family Act. Falsified documents, pedophilia and other such things are punishable in Estonia. However, as regards, for example, marriage or a partnership agreement as a parallel, if the partnership agreement has been concluded or the marriage has been registered on the wrong basis, but its negative effects have passed and then it is discovered, but the parties agree to the partnership agreement or marriage, it may be punished for forged documents or paedophilia, but neither the partnership agreement nor the marriage will therefore be annulled. That's the principle of family law. Here are a number of aspects and examples of how family relationships are maintained. In the specific case, the final result also depends on who the applicant is and how he deals with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U98	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U99	Thank you. Dear waitress, The draft Hunting Act was dealt with by two governments and Riigikogu members for seven years. The draft Civil Service Act was dealt with by three Riigikogu formations and several governments for over eight years. The draft law on cohabitation was submitted to the Riigikogu proceedings s. April 17th. The performer was a group of members of the Riigikogu and had not previously been discussed with target groups or authorities. No party's programme or pre-election promises included the adoption of the Cohabitation Act. There is no word about this in the current coalition agreement. It has been a summer, i.e. three months without a meeting, since the draft was submitted. The motion for a referendum was rejected. The second and third reading of the bill and the final vote are scheduled for one week, which is contrary to the guidelines of good practice in the procedure of the draft law approved by the Board of the Riigikogu. Please tell me whether and how this procedure of the draft is in line with good practice - democratic and open, tolerant and tolerant - with the desire to involve...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U100	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U101	...and seek agreement and solutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U102	Thank you. You claimed that this issue had not been discussed. In fact, it was already under discussion in the Ministry of Justice since 2008 and meetings with target groups took place in 2011 and 2012. So there was definitely a debate. In the meantime, an analysis and draft concept were prepared at the Ministry. I'm sure you can't say that you hadn't discussed it with anyone. As regards the claim that no one's electoral programme contained this idea, Indrek Saar has already referred to this. I have not reviewed the programmes of other parties, but this was the point in the Social Democratic Party programme. As regards bringing the readings together in one week, as you understand very well, especially between the first and second readings, the question arises as to how long it will be for the members of the Riigikogu to examine the draft and submit their amendments. Yesterday, Mr Reinsalu stated on several occasions that this was an unprecedented rush. Absolutely not, it's not unprecedented. I have here a list of real turbo procedures, for example, last year, when there was only a few hours or days to table amendments. The break between the second and third readings is primarily a technical break. Since the draft law is not very voluminous, as you can see, we believe that the technical panel of the Riigikogu will be able to handle it nicely in preparing for the third reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U103	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U104	Thank you. Good waitress! Although the representative of the initiators confirmed to us at least twice at first reading that this draft does not give couples of the same sex the right to adopt, the provisions in this regard are set out in the draft. I ask the couple who have signed a partnership agreement about the possibility of adopting a third-party child. It has been said that this is possible if it would be extremely unfair to rule it out. What does that mean? The explanatory memorandum provides only one example of when the situation is extremely unfair. This is when a couple of different sexes who are unable to have children for medical reasons has concluded a partnership agreement. I'm not a very good specialist, but I think it might happen to a couple of the same sex. Does this case go down here and mean that a couple can adopt a third-party child?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U105	Thank you. This is the same question that Marko Pomerants asked in the Commission. First of all, it must be said that adoption takes place on the basis of a judgment. The court will certainly examine and consider all the facts very carefully. This gross injustice is a rare case that requires a combination of all inappropriate circumstances. We could consider this to be the case when two people have signed a partnership agreement, but neither of them is able to fertilize or give birth to a child; they are both childless. In such a case, gross injustice could be an option. How rare this example can be, we can only guess. But we should still trust the Estonian judicial system, so the judges will take the best decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U106	Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U107	Thank you. I'm sorry you guys were talking about something else when you answered my last question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U108	Oh!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U109	You were talking about the occasion when people were adopted and thus became sisters and brothers. My question was about the opposite. If the biological sister and brother have become children of different families as a result of adoption, your law precludes the conclusion of a partnership agreement. But we know that these people have no legal implications, they may not even know each other. For what reason is it impossible for such persons to enter into a partnership agreement, for example? They're being discriminated against.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U110	Thank you. This is the kind of issue that is likely to have to be taken into account when developing draft implementing acts. Other drafts have also been a two-step approach; first, the substantive part of the law, the 'core', has been adopted and then the implementing acts have been followed. I do not exclude that during these stages, this draft itself will be subject to some sort of adjustment. Surely this cannot be ruled out if there is a problem here. I see a problem with the existence of a biological relationship, although I do not know how to control it. But I'm sure we can work on that.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U111	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U112	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I have a question about § 9 (5) of the Cohabitation Act, which relates to the maintenance obligations of partners. I have studied this law quite thoroughly, and it seems to me that the biggest difference between the family law and the cohabitation law is the maintenance obligation of spouses since the divorce. For what reason do you consider it reasonable that marriage requires spouses to maintain their maintenance obligations even after the marriage has ended, but that is not the case with the partnership law? This suggests that living together is more a project-based thing that has no long - term or life - long purpose.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U113	Thank you. Surely the partnership should not be project-based, and we very much hope that marriage is not project-based either. If we look at divorces, we may at times feel that way. But there really is a difference. In the case of marriage, it is foreseen that even after divorce, one of the former spouses may, in the event of deprivation, require not only their children but also their own livelihoods. In the case of a partnership agreement, the parties can agree on this in advance, but this does not necessarily involve the conclusion of a contract. There is really a difference here, and that simply means that the parties to a partnership agreement have the opportunity to move from cohabitation to marriage. If they are of the same sex, they agree at the time of the conclusion of the contract that they will be ready to support each other even when the partnership agreement ends. This does not refer to the shorter duration of the partnership agreement, as this is also the point in the Family Law on marriage.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U114	Andrus Island, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U115	Thank you. Good chairman of the committee! When this bill was here at first reading, there was a discussion about whether or not it was a draft requiring 51 votes. There are no 51 votes in favour of this draft, but the aim is to consecrate the measure and the drafters have now made every legal move to ensure that this draft does not require a vote in favour of 51, although several Estonian top lawyers have made their assessment and are in the opposite position. Good chairman of the committee, what do you think? How does this manipulation of laws and disregard of majority opinions affect the public's sense of justice in the broadest sense? Does this disregard for the opinion of one party really add to society tolerance and respect for the country that the advocates of the bill have called for in their slogans?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U116	Thank you. I really hope that the draft will promote the spread of tolerance in Estonian society. With regard to the deletion of the provisions requiring 51 votes, first of all I would like to say that lawyers are indeed in different positions here. These amendments were also prepared by the Commission in cooperation with the lawyers of the Ministry of Justice. This is based on the judgment of the Supreme Court in Case No 3-4-1-7-08, paragraph 30 of the Supreme Court General Assembly of 8 June 2009. It is also based on an executive publication of the Constitution, comments on § 104, paragraphs 2 and 14. Both the Supreme Court decision and the constitutional comments make it clear that constitutional rules should be incorporated into constitutional laws.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U117	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U118	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Good waitress! My question is based on a combination of two: Article 15 deals with adoption and we will also look at the case dealt with in 'The Spectator'. That show was from a gay couple baby boom. A gay couple spoke about how they bought their children with expensive money. We have blood donation free of charge, we have organ donation strictly voluntary and free of charge. Should the rent of a woman's body be free of charge? Or if it was paid for, is it human trafficking?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U119	Thank you. This question concerned surrogates which are prohibited in the Republic of Estonia. If a parent comes to Estonia with his or her child, he or she will not be asked who the mother is, either the one who gave birth to the child or anyone else. There can certainly be no such distinction between children. As far as surrogates are concerned, this is the source of many problems and questions. It is likely that this issue must also be dealt with intensively in Estonia. But the current situation is that there is no surrogacy in Estonia. I hope it stays that way.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U120	Please, Thomas Tõniste!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U121	Väino Linde, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U122	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U123	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! In order to explain the reason why this bill no longer talks about the judicial protection of the partners, after the first reading it does not even talk about the right of the partners to apply to court, you referred to one of the Supreme Court's decisions, which says that constitutional provisions must be in constitutional law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U124	Yeah!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U125	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I understand you agree that surrogateism is the source of many problems. You said so. I understand that you also confirm that surrogateism in Estonia is prohibited and surrogateism for money is trafficking in human beings. At the same time, § 15 (4) states that a partner may adopt a child of a third party. Now, on the basis of this 'Spectator' clip and knowing the great international problem of violence against women and trafficking in human beings, do you not think that Article 15 allows us to encourage international trafficking in human beings and the exploitation of a woman's body?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U126	Thank you. I don't generally think so. I very much hope that cases of surrogacy are rare. It's a very wide theme all over the world. I can't tell you if it should be absolutely forbidden in the whole world. If it's used for ethical and medical purposes, I can't say that. All I can say is that Surrogateism is prohibited in Estonia and, if such a child comes to Estonia, he will not be discriminated against on this basis. Our children are all our children.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U127	Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U128	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I'm still gonna go over it. This law on cohabitation is being tried very quickly at the moment. The question was asked how to terminate the agreement if one party wishes to split up, but the other disagrees. It turned out to have to go to court, but there is no case law or legislation. Don't you feel like you're really trying to rush this thing too fast, even though it's not all ready for today?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U129	Thank you. Like I said, this 'all done' is a pretty big job. The draft currently creates a fundamental position with which the legislator has expressed its will. This law will be introduced, its entry into force will take place at the moment when it is ready, i.e. with implementing legislation. This is one possible practice in the work of the Riigikogu. Between today and 1 January 2016, there is quite enough time to complete all the implementing acts. This also requires cooperation with the Government of the Republic and with the ministries. That is what we can do when a fundamental decision, that is, the essence of this law, has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U130	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U131	Thank you. Good waitress! The well-known Estonian lawyers consider this bill to be contrary to the Constitution. I am quite convinced that if this bill becomes a law, it will be addressed to the Supreme Court and the final solution will probably come from the Supreme Court. What is your view, do you see a contradiction with the Constitution here or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U132	Thank you. Indeed, there have been various opinions on the Constitution. Based on the opinion of the Chancellor of Justice, it can be said that it is precisely this law that should be dealt with in accordance with the Constitution. If this law is addressed to the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court will certainly make a good decision on the basis of its best knowledge.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U133	Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U134	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! What added value does the Cohabitation Act provide for heterosexual couples who have not yet married? What is the difference between a marriage and a marriage?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U135	Thank you. First of all, he is different because he is not a marriage, or the terms of a partnership agreement are different. If you marry in a church, a civil status office or a notary, you can only conclude a partnership agreement with a notary. The Civil Status Act provides, for example, for a reference period: if a person goes to make a marriage, his or her application will not be accepted until a month has elapsed after the application was submitted. There must be a delay in both divorce and marriage. There is no such delay in concluding a partnership agreement. I am suggesting that the partnership agreement is a slightly simpler and faster way to formalise and publicise our living together. It gives the couple living together basic security, but it's not marriage.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U136	Siim Kiisler.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U137	Thank you. Good waitress! I very much agree with you that this law can only actually enter into force once it is ready, i.e. all implementing acts are in place. I mean, it's so unclear right now, you don't even know how to ask about everything. For example, it is incomprehensible whether people who have signed a partnership agreement could also take a common last name. This law does not say anything about it, and they certainly could not do so on the basis of the name law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Do you think it will be possible to change this deadline in the future, for example, in the next Riigikogu? We recently had a precedent for a maternity pension when the law was passed and the entry into force was simply postponed. For example, can the new composition decide that the law will enter into force after the positive outcome of the referendum?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U138	Thank you. The withdrawal of the right of succession was due to the desire to clarify and improve the draft. The succession provision should be included in the succession law and should be entered in it. That's exactly the reason. Therefore, this provision goes out of this bill and into the law of succession.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U139	Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U140	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! It used to be said that this lobby, or same-sex people who live together, could have some sort of regulated partnership. Some kind of term went through the discussion. In very many countries, these people can get married legally. It's like we're between two things, and the attitude of society has gotten very painful. Would it not have been reasonable for the Commission suddenly to consider the option of regulating the partnership and, in the long term, we would still have moved towards a full marriage, which, as society evolves, would probably be possible? Right now, we are offering these people, as an option, to do some kind of incomplete thing that is not really a full marriage and very strongly divides society. Did the Commission talk about this option at all, or did it not even come up with any reason to get married at one point?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U141	Thank you. No, in the Commission, the option of allowing marriage was not at all mentioned at all. However, the way in which the partnership agreement is a partnership governed by the partnership agreement has been followed, with the addition that the partnership agreement will be entered in a register by which it will become visible to third parties. This is the option that is currently being developed for Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U142	Thomas Tõniste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U143	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Let me get this straight. We're here to adopt a law that is legally complete and that has been taken out of a lot of details, so, for God's sake, we don't need 51 votes, because then this bill doesn't become a law? We hope that officials will work hard and correct our cull and prepare the implementing provisions in time. Is this some new concept of lawmaking in the new coalition?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U144	Thank you. First of all, I do not agree that this bill is a failure. If someone says that this bill is scarce, there's some way to agree to it. Rather, it should be said that this draft is compact and is written precisely in the focus of the problem, i.e. it sets out the most basic to regulate the relationship. This approach of adopting the core of the draft, i.e. its main part, and then introducing implementing acts and implementing provisions, is neither first-hand nor extraordinary, but is one of the possible ways to adjust the Estonian legal space.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U145	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U146	Good manager! Good waitress! Listening to your answers, I have a question. I understood that if this law was adopted now, there would be no implementing provisions or acts. But if they are not there, the law cannot be enforced. I wonder if this law goes against any of the laws in force. How's that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U147	Thank you. As far as I know, he doesn't go against the laws in force. He does foresee changes in the laws in force. For example, as I said, if there is currently a law on the matrimonial property register, the draft stipulates that its name, as well as the law itself, will be amended in such a way as to create a register of property and a register of property, which will record the points relating to property relationships arising in partnership.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U148	Väino Linde, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U149	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I agree with you in principle that the legal provisions on legal proceedings must be in the Code of Judicial Procedure and the provisions on how succession rights are exercised must be in the Succession Act. However, when reading the law, the partners must be able to know, even by reference, that they have the right to apply to the courts and to inherit property under the Succession Act. Such a provision must be in this law; otherwise, I understand that it is certainly a bad legislative practice. Are you okay with that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U150	Thank you. As I also said, in the event that, when implementing acts are developed, it becomes clear that there must necessarily be a point in this law, whether or not by reference to something being done under another law, it is possible to introduce this reference into this law by changing the wording.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U151	Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U152	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! In the beginning, it was also the deepest idea of this law to protect men and women living in a free partnership, to regulate these relationships, too, if people have not registered their marriage. It is strange that this lobby group, if I am not fooled by my memory, that there are nearly 170000 people in Estonia who belong to it, are now completely even; they are not very interested in this law. Does the Commission have any information on how many common-law couples should now rush to register their free partnership with a notary in order not to get married? Were there any organisations protecting children's rights and the general family tradition among those who went to your committee? What about the men and women in common-law relationships now?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U153	Thank you. A husband and wife in a common-law relationship will have an additional opportunity to register their cohabitation. Since this is not an obligation, it is an opportunity, we cannot predict how many of them will rush to take advantage of this opportunity. Since a registered or organised partnership, a visible partnership, is better than an unregistered partnership in any case, I hope that some will do so. Speaking of the organisations that participated in these discussions, I have to mention such an interesting thing that, for example, the Child Welfare Association thinks that it will in any case benefit children, and the representatives of the Estonian Sexual Health Association, or women's doctors, find that registration will certainly benefit families' sense of security. But on the other hand, there are such opinions that it damages the institution of marriage. I tend to tend to think that if there is an alternative way of registering a life together, it will give families more security.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U154	Honourable waitress! I have been against this law from the beginning, and I will still be against him, but I have to talk about a problem. People with homosexual orientation who want to live together are my fellow citizens, and so many of them are my friends. This is why I am disturbed by one of the things pointed out by my fellow Members, Chef and Linde. This law does not really give homosexual couples and communities any sense of security or absolutely nothing. There is no application section, nothing can be implemented and it is not known when this application part will or will not come. Have you not the impression that we are deceiving our homosexual fellow citizens to some extent? We're going to pass a law that won't give them anything. Yeah, it's definitely a symbolic victory, psychological maybe, but legally, the result is zero. There's no part of the application.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U155	Thank you. As you can see, the entry into force of the law has been postponed from 1 January 2015 to 1 January 2016. So the target groups that are very interested really have to wait another year. The fact that there are no implementing acts at present does not mean that they do not exist when the law enters into force. On the contrary, this law gives the most fundamental right, namely the right to go to a notary and conclude a partnership agreement. If the law does not provide full protection in this regard, for example, it does not describe how to go to court in case of problems, it is a direct violation of people's rights. That is absolutely right. This means that when the law enters into force in 2016, there must be implementing legislation that will enable this law to actually apply. That's exactly what it's meant to be.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U156	Ken-Marti Vaher, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U157	Thank you very much. Dear waitress, The representatives of the initiators of this draft law spoke first of all in spring, when this draft was handed over, about what has already been touched on by a number of respondents, that this draft has been designed to protect a large number of almost 200,000 people who live in non-marital relations. It turns out today it's been a very, very big bluff. These people aren't really on the bill. Tell me, please, as Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, what would you say to such a draft and to rhetoric at all when the actual content of a bill is hidden by manipulating a large number of people. What assessment do you make as chairman of the impartial committee, as you should be, of such conduct?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U158	Thank you. I just don't agree with your assessment of the bluff. If we look at the potential target group of the law, this law, with its existence, will only give us the opportunity to formalise our life together. Whether people use it or not, it is their own expression of free will. That's right, we have 17,7,000 people of different sexes living in a free life. They will be able to use the option of concluding a partnership agreement in the future. On the other hand, this law also gives couples of the same sex the opportunity to use this option. We rely on the data of the last census of 177000 people and the number of couples of the same sex, which showed that people of different sexes living in a free life are 177000, and people of the same sex living in a free life are circa 400. That's the difference in magnitude. I don't want to agree that this law is a bluff, it's a potential opportunity for both target groups. As many of these people use it, we unfortunately do not know at the moment, we will see this after 1 January 2016.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U159	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U160	Thank you. In general, I do not like the sudden opening of debates in the Riigikogu that have not been discussed before the elections. I have to apologize, the Social Democratic Party was the only party to talk about this issue, but probably because of this, he also received the least mandates in the elections. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] But why shouldn't the Central Party, if we find consensus, put it in our programme before the spring Riigikogu elections, to which there are less than five months, the Social Democrats and the Reform Party? This would send a mandate from the people, it would be legitimate and it could move on with this issue. But right now it's being done in secret. After all, no one has said before that this issue will be dealt with in the final period of Parliament. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U161	Thank you. If you look at the public debate, it is likely that this bill will be the most recent one that could be said to have been handled secretly. There has been a very broad exchange of views before the public. I can't call that a secret act. Legitimacy to this law is given by this composition right here. How political parties associate it with their programme is their question. The Social Democratic Party programme included such a point.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U162	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U163	Good manager! Good waitress! I even agree with you on one point. In any case, formalising a life together is beneficial for children. But right now, there's a chance, and that's a way to formalize a marriage. The formalisation of a life together is, in fact, as complex a procedure as the formalisation of a marriage now. You don't always have to make some big scratches in there, you get it easier. I don't know anyone who knows someone who belongs to a couple of different sexes and wants to use this partnership registration. I can't imagine a man telling a woman that he won't marry her, but they can register a life together, or that she would expect her to propose a marriage instead of a marriage proposal. Maybe you know people like that.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U164	Thank you! Dear waitress, I'm gonna ask you another question. You're very nice to choose words, and you used the expression above all that this bill creates opportunities. However, I referred rather to the very passionate statement of some of the representatives of the initiators of the bill that this bill provides protection for some 180,000 people living in a special sex relationship. My question to you is whether we are really talking about offering protection to couples who live in a special sex relationship, who are not married, or whether you continue to choose words and talk about the opportunity. This bill was brought before us in April precisely with a very strong emphasis on protection, that it mainly protects these 200000 people...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U165	Honourable Chairman! Honourable waitress! As expected, the meaning of this law has changed. In the past, Mr Randper's eyes were in tears when he spoke of how he fought for their families, which was over 170,000. Now we're talking to another rhetoric. But my question is about § 1 and § 20, about the conclusion and termination of the partnership agreement. Paragraph 1 (1) 'Two natural persons may enter into a partnership agreement, at least one of whom is resident in Estonia. ' Several countries have examples of trafficking in human beings or the business of residence permits for people from third countries. I am interested, however, in the way in which the partnership agreement is terminated. Is the presence of one person sufficient, or must both be at the end of the notarial contract?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U166	Both of them do not need to be at graduation; they may submit a notarially certified application in order to terminate their partnership agreement. This was one of the changes that, if the presence of both parties at the termination of the contract is not feasible for any reason, it is possible to do so on the basis of a notarial statement.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U167	Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U168	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I also have a question about the termination of the partnership agreement. Here is the conclusion of the agreement, but what happens if the agreement is not reached? It's completely unregulated in this law. What if the other party does not agree to give up the partnership by notarial or simple consent? How, then, can you end your life together?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U169	Thank you. In such a case, the partners or those wishing to terminate the partnership must apply to the courts. As this is a judicial rule, the amendment provided that it was not included in this draft, it should be included in the Code of Civil Procedure. This issue must be resolved by means of implementing provisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U170	Helir-Valdor Seeder. Please ask me a question in one minute!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U171	Thank you. The legal quality of the proposed draft does not, in my view, suffer criticism. There's no implementing act. In your replies, you refer to non-existent implementing acts. In this situation, it is relatively pointless for a member of the Riigikogu to ask substantive questions. That is why I am still asking you once again about the procedure. In answer to my first question, you said that the Ministry of Justice has been working on the draft since 2011 or 2012. Now you are stating that the law will enter into force in 2016 and that there will be all implementing acts. If the Ministry of Justice has not been able to develop any implementing legislation in three years, which gives you confidence that in one year now all acts will be developed? Or are these acts real and you just don't publish them?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U172	Thank you. There is no act, there is an overview of possible changes and possible wording provided by a specialist from the Ministry of Justice, but its formalisation into implementing legislation is still longer. The fact that implementing acts come later is relatively logical. Until the principles of the draft, that is, its core part, or material part, have been approved in this Chamber, if you say it in legal language, there is no point in changing the law on the matrimonial property register, etc. This is the road that the Riigikogu has followed before, i.e. the substantive part of the law has been adopted and subsequently followed by implementing acts that specify the implementation of the law. Since these are issues which directly depend on the implementation of the law, the first time is a year to come out with implementing legislation, and second, the entry into force of the law is also conditionally linked to the existence of implementing acts. The law can only enter into force if implementing acts exist.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U173	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U174	Right. But you well know that, in fact, this judgment is not about the circumstances and situations that are the subject of the draft we are discussing today, these circumstances are quite different. I wonder why, either because of fear or for any other reason, you also removed the parties' right to inherit each other's property from the bill after the first reading. What was behind it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U175	Thank you. As regards the entry into force of the law with implementing acts, we have not yet had a debate on what this means 'all implementing acts'. This means, for example, that if we start discussing whether or not the partners could submit a joint tax return, and such a decision will be taken, then an implementing act will have to be adopted. If we start discussing whether, under the Law of Obligations Act, the partners could also be mentioned among those who have the right to information and to take decisions if the patient cannot do so, and such a decision will be taken, it is also one of the implementing provisions. This means that the number of implementing acts is currently unlimited. A certain number of implementing acts must necessarily exist, whether or not the same right of access to the courts and the rules of the court proceedings, in relation to what must be introduced into the laws of the court proceedings, because without them there is no legal protection for people. As regards the possible amendment of the law before it enters into force, yes, it is possible. This has happened before and cannot be ruled out in this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U176	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U177	Thank you. Mr. Prospector, thank you very much. I have a question about § 7 (2). The numbering may have changed, but I'm talking about § 7 (2) right now. While the originators were also talking about regularising the marriage of married or married persons abroad in Estonia, now only registered partnerships remain. Whose initiative did this change come in, and why? Did the initiators give up the concept of marriage? Secondly, what other significant changes do we have in this draft? At some point, for example, the Embassy of England announced that they would register same-sex marriages in Estonia. Do you know if it's already started or what's going on in there?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U178	Thank you. I don't know anything about Embassy operations in England right now. As regards § 7 (2), i.e. reading a registered partnership abroad as valid, it was, at first, stated that a partnership or marriage concluded abroad was valid in Estonia, and now there is a reference to the Private International Law Act. This law has been in force in Estonia since 2002. It specifies precisely how Estonia recognises or does not recognise private relations concluded abroad. We don't need to think of anything new. This change came from two sources at the same time, the Commission and Valdo Randpere, and both proposals were taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U179	Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U180	Thank you. Good waitress! You said that one of the main differences is the speed of marriage and registration, i.e. you can quickly inform everyone that you are living together. Today, Facebook is the fastest tool if you think the most important thing is information. My question, however, is as follows. You had a discussion at the end of the summer, and there the representative of the ministry pointed out a fact that you did not agree with at first, but then you had to agree. You had to agree that only four European countries had adopted an analogous law dealing with the registration of special-sex partnerships. Why do we still need this special-sex registration in Estonia so much when there is an institution of marriage?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U181	Thank you. This question in itself is not very fundamental. When we talk about how something has been dealt with in different countries, it can be said that same-sex marriage has in some way been dealt with in 20 countries, including five countries of same-sex marriage, the registration of same-sex partnerships in 14 countries, and that there are four countries (Belgium, France, Luxembourg and the Netherlands). All of this together forms a security package that European countries will put in place for the benefit of their citizens. I hope that Estonia will do the same.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U182	Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U183	Thank you. Dear waitress, Explain to me what this thing is gonna look like at school. There is a social education class and we should talk about Mom and Dad. Who will be spoken of in the future? How should this child behave, and how should he deal with other children? What should I explain to my children, who am opposed to this change, and what should the teacher say? Why don't you give us a little hour?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U184	Thank you. First of all, schools should teach children to see the world the way it is. School teaching should not be ideologically biased. The Child Welfare Act also says that teaching must not be ideologically biased. I really hope that the child in school will know what politics is, but I don't want any party promotions in school. I very much hope that the child will know what religion is at school, but I don't want the school to carry out the preaching work. I really want the child at school to know what family is and what relationships are between people, but this is where the school must remain neutral. The teacher should be able to explain, not curse. I hope that's what parents do.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U185	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U186	Good manager! Good Neeme! I only have one question for you. This is certainly a very important issue that we are discussing in the Riigikogu for the second day. But, as I understand it, for most members of the Riigikogu, it has remained rather confusing and not everyone has bothered to read the draft. Even more, this issue has caused anxiety throughout Estonian society. Can you tell me why it's so awfully urgent? Perhaps it would be more appropriate if we still tried to explain the whole situation and the need for change and to take a decision when society is ready to do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U187	Thank you. I guess society's readiness is growing with certain decisions. If these decisions are not taken, we also have no reason to hope that society will be more prepared. This decision will certainly contribute to the development of society in terms of tolerance, tolerance, care and coherence.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U188	Thank you. All I can say is that the Cohabitation Act has probably been one of the most common topics in my meetings with people, which I have spoken to both women and men, both married people and people living in a free partnership. There are different attitudes. As for women living in a free life, they often have the hope that their male partners will do something to make their relationship more secure. What the result will be, how many will use this option of registration, we really do not know how to predict. We have seen that when, for example, in Sweden, the attitude towards marriage became more neutral and the possibility of registering a partnership was created, the number of marriages increased. If the family already has this discussion, should it be done if the subject is discussed and the woman proposes to enter into a partnership agreement at least, but if a man shakes his head on it and says that it is better to register a marriage, then it is a good result for everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U189	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U190	Men! I have a question that concerns a bit of the procedure. Reminds me of the ESM contract. Italy is now going down economically, Greece is in crisis, etc. There were 50 minutes between the second and third reading of the draft ESM. I'm a chronically outnumbered person. To be honest, 50 minutes was absolutely insufficient time to even write a proper opposition. Now, there's one day between second and third reading. I'm gonna ask you as the president of the Legal Affairs Committee. I'm sorry, but is it going to happen in Parliament that the laws are being rammed through? Would it not be wise, then, to eliminate second and third readings at all because they are losing meaning?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U191	Thank you. It is certainly not appropriate to eliminate the second and third readings. As you yourself remember, we are in the Committee on Legal Affairs in cases where we have been dealing with enormously long drafts, such as the draft law on law enforcement, which has improved decimal places between second and third readings. This is really an opportunity between second and third readings. This draft is certainly not comparable in size and complexity to those which require careful technical processing between second and third readings. I am sure that our technical panel will be able to make the text of the draft third reading available to the members of the Riigikogu in good time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U192	Ken-Marti Vaher, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U193	Thank you. The question is clear. Time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U194	Thank you. I understand the question. You don't have to back out of defense or its possibility. Protection is provided through an additional possibility, that is exactly what it is. If I have more opportunities to solve my problems, I have more choices, I am more free in my choices and I have better guarantees of my rights. Those who say that the draft offers protection are certainly on the right track, and those who say that the draft gives an opportunity are certainly on the right track. But the fact is, the bill doesn't provide automatic protection. This means that when it comes into force, people will still have to express their will and sign a contract. In this respect, the IRL initiative is that a factual partnership could be brought into Estonian family law by a different nature. It immediately provides automatic protection for all people living in a free partnership. In this sense, the law of cohabitation is certainly different; it requires the will of two grown-ups.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U195	Thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Valdo Randpere, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U196	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I will also say a few words about this bill. First of all, the answer to all those who worry about not knowing if there are any heterosexual couples who want to use this law. I know one who is eagerly waiting for the law to be passed and to be able to register his cohabitation. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, the family is protected by the state. The Constitution does not define a family, but establishes a general principle of law, which is absolute. Thus, both families based on marriage and those based on free cohabitation are protected by the state. At the same time, the Constitution says that everyone is equal before the law. No one shall be discriminated against on grounds of nationality, race, colour, gender, language, origin, religion, political or other beliefs, property and social status or other circumstances. There are fewer and fewer marriages in Estonia. Most children are born out of wedlock. It's a reality. At the same time, there is no complex legal regulation of property rights and obligations arising from non-marital relationships. The simplest example: you and your loved one may have been in a common-law relationship for 20 years, but you will not become heirs with each other, you will not have common property. The purpose of the draft law on cohabitation is to fill this gap in the law and also to offer the protection permitted by the Constitution to families that are not based on marriage. However, the debate on the draft law on partnership has been the least relevant to this issue. The problem is that the draft is gender neutral. I think it's a mystery. Why? Couples of the same sex already exist among us, and the draft law on partnership does not create more or reduce their number. They have not contributed in any way to the fact that an increasing number of heterosexual Estonians do not want to get married, more than half of marriages are separated, and more than half of children are born outside of marriage. Giving people of the same sex the opportunity to register their cohabitation does not change this situation either way; so-called traditional family values statistics do not change either better or worse. That is why, in my opinion, it is not only wrong but also Phariseeism to contradict family values with this bill. It would be more honest for opponents to say directly that they are fighting for the normalness they have defined, which they believe is only right, and that differences are not tolerated. Once a country has defined "normality" in the field of personal life, on the level of an individual, I have seen history before. Such definitions are, after all, a source of eternal shame, not a source of satisfaction, for the countries concerned. I'm not going to talk about Hitler's Germany, it's too well-known. But did you know that another 50 years ago, Sweden was subject to the law of forced sterilisation? Over 60,000 people, mainly women, were sterilized because of their mental disabilities. Finland also had a similar law in force until 1969. Over 50000 people, including mainly women, were sterilised in Finland, 7500 of them for racial hygiene and more than 3000 for social reasons. Do any of you believe that these societies today are proud of this? No, it's not. For Sweden, which I know better than Finland, I can assure you that this is, in the opinion of the Swedes, a real national disgrace. Let us learn from the mistakes of our neighbours and let us not repeat them by interfering with people's deep private decisions. The debate around the Cohabitation Act has revealed the personal stories of many people, often very frank and moving. Perhaps the most touching of them was the story of the Risto Hat. My story is far from so serious and fundamental, but still, I have a story of my own. It's not about homosexuality, but I know what it means to be different, I know what it means to be bullied by it. At first, I was bullied, but when the strength of the bullies came to pass, I was a bully myself. I grew up knowing that the difference was punishable and bullying was acceptable. 30 years ago, I fled the Soviet Union to Sweden. I came across a society whose friendliness and sympathy shocked me at first. We had a great deal to worry about: the Soviet Union decided to bully us by not allowing our one-year-old daughter to join us in Sweden. We received help in our fight for our daughter from a large part of Swedish society, who came to help these totally foreign people, just because we needed help. It was the beginning of my transformation. The result is that today I'm ashamed of my past, I never want to bully anyone again, I don't want to be bullied myself anymore, but it's not just up to me. I can set an example for all parents, both traditional and unconventional, because I have taught my children as a primary and most important value, so that they don't bully anyone, and if they see that others do it, let them step in. I accept it when my kids get bad grades at school, but I don't accept it when they bully someone. As a parent, I can only influence my children; as a politician, I can help all Estonian children live in a society where the difference is not punished and minorities are not discriminated against. Finally. Looking around the world, it's not hard to say that the richer one country, the more tolerant it is. In my opinion, however, the question mark is what is an egg for this fact and what is a chicken, whether wealth gives humanity or tolerance gives one country better preconditions for getting rich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U197	Laine Randjärv, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U198	Ladies and gentlemen, It seems more and more that the main topic of the debate currently taking place in society is not so much the cohabitation law itself, but rather the question of who has the right to be a full member of society in our small country and who does not have that right. What is happening around this bill has highlighted a sharp conflict of values between people in society; the bill has become an indicator of the health of our society. Unfortunately, it has given birth to a host of hate speech, hatred, humiliation, and ignorance. Evaluations have been based primarily on stereotypical attitudes, not on real experience. In addition to the uncensorships in the context of the draft law on cohabitation, the cursiveness of the traditional family model, i.e. the disappearance of marriage as soon as the law on cohabitation is passed. Today, I want to talk about relationships, traditions, attitudes, their transformations and broad thinking. Since the bill was issued, I have received personal threats from church-related individuals, other than hundreds of pros and cons, who speak on behalf of all Christians and have accepted the commission by fighting to represent God himself. Behind the slogan calling on godly devotion, however, the fatal message sent to the masses is revealed: not all are equally loved by God. 'No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ' there is a call. Should these other ones be stoned to death or burned to the stake? Today we are called upon to despise sexual minorities. What minorities will be despised tomorrow? I remember Tammsaare. In the third volume of Truth and Justice, he wrote: '... For there must be a man somewhere who defends truth and righteousness before God himself. " Speaking on behalf of absolutely everyone, through anyone's mouth, is highly doubtful, for there is always someone who thinks differently, without subjecting himself to blind vampires, threats, or planned guidelines. In truth, I am fortunate to know the representatives of the EELC, who can think more widely and therefore I do not attribute this to the church world as a whole. The opponents of the bill defend their rhetorical supposedly traditional family model. But do you notice a person inside the model? Is it understood that everyone has the right to live their lives and make choices, unless, of course, someone is harmed by their way of life and everyone has the right to be protected by both man and the law? What, though, do studies by our scientists reveal about marriage? I base my speech on the studies of Estonian scientists (Anipalg, Ainsaar, Tiit and Pettai). Between 1947 and 1991, 12000 marriages were registered annually. After regaining independence, this number began to decline rapidly and in the last ten years, marriages have been registered half as low as around 6,000. At the same time, the percentage of divorces in traditional marriages has risen to the highest level of up to 69%. What else is known about the traditional family model that is not loved to talk about? Each year, 44000 women suffer from domestic violence. 6,000 of them will be serious and life-threatening injuries. Every day 252 women suffer physical and 33 sexual violence. Two thirds of these cases take place in women's homes. The bad news is, unfortunately, the myth that violence is only a social or alcoholic, that there are violent men in all levels of society, says Iris Pettai's study. According to Finnish sociologists, one in three men raised in violent families follows their father's violent pattern. Men are also suffering from violence. Every day in Estonia, about 22 men fall victim to domestic violence. This is 9% of cases of men suffering violence at all. The opponents of the draft law deal with criticism of one form of partnership by spiced their story with delusions that, by adopting the law of partnership, children will be drunk for heterosexuals and, imagine, even bought. Artificial insemination must have been considered. It must be said in the Remark procedure that artificial insemination is increasingly used by traditional heterosexual families for health reasons. There is often a frightening argument that the world view of a child growing up in an unconventional family is perverted. I wonder if this traditional family model, where violence is a daily matter, is a good example. Is a family wrestling with alcohol problems a good and safe breeding ground for children? Society is changing, with it changing people's values. Centuries ago, the traditional family model meant that when children were born, their parents agreed to marry whom. Of course, there were cases that a few unselfish youths later ignored the arrangement, for some untraditionally tried to create a family under the influence of love. At that time, one of the goals of marriage was to unite lands and assets, to increase prosperity, to love was in the background, at least in social values. Don't respected opponents want that practice back too? Another example of changes in values and attitudes in the political landscape. In 1868, when Estonia was already at a national awakening, there was a fierce political struggle at the United States Congress, where the abolition of slavery was debated. There was much discontent and passion, and there were shouts in the hall: "If we release the slaves now, will we next give women the right to vote? " At the time, the issue of the abolition of slavery divided the United States of America's society a great deal. At the moment, we cannot imagine being on the side of those who insisted on continuing slavery. An example of human rights and dignity in the world-famous charity Rotary, founded in 1905. Only in 1989 did women get the right to belong to the Rotary Clubs and engage in charity activities. This charity has not missed anything because women belong to it, rather it has won. Maybe we should push the women back into the pillow clubs. From the situations described above, decades or hundreds of ten nails have been held and shouted that the world will perish by changing or developing these ideals. Sic transit gloria mundi, who wouldn't have heard that? Yesterday, a speaker from this remote control was upset: 'Time doesn't change by itself, we change time. Some of us also want to force our understanding, ideals, and beliefs to change. ' Of course he does! Many modern standards have never been taboos. If they weren't wanted to be changed, there wouldn't be any women in this hall today. At the same time, this speaker's party partner, the then head of Res Publica, described his party members in October 2004 with promising words: 'These are the people who, as I believe, believe that the aim of the state must be to broaden everyone's personal, political and other choices. ' Excellent plan! Where has faith gone today and the desire to widen the personal choices of everyone? Honourable listeners! I am in favour of any family model, provided that it is loving and safe for both partners and children. I am convinced that traditional marriages usually guarantee family security, but unfortunately, based on the examples given above, it may not always be an absolute guarantee. That is why I want to express my support for the various forms of living together and to organise life in our country in such a way that the laws also give everyone confidence in legal activities. You can't make someone love or hate, make children or buy them, have sex, or give up sex, this bill tells you something else. Please read it carefully! Let me finish Plato with the words said some 2,300 years ago: 'We can easily forgive a child who fears the darkness; but a real tragedy is a man (in today's context: adults) who fears the light. ' Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U199	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, In this draft law, only § 26 does not raise any questions, as it is clear and unambiguous. All the rest of you, but... Unfortunately, because of our regulation, only two questions can be asked. The specific question is about § 8. A marriage may not be concluded by a person who has a partnership agreement in force at the time of the marriage. How do you check it if a person entering a marriage has a partnership agreement in another country? How's the notary gonna deal with this? That was my question, but I'm going to say again that every formula here makes you think. For example, Paragraph 1 (3) refers to a disabled adult. Here is the sentence: 'If a person is assigned a guardian, it is assumed that the person does not understand the legal consequences of the partnership agreement... ' I would agree if there were a point here, but it goes on: '... unless... '. Why even put provisions in the law that rule themselves out?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U200	I'll start at the back. These provisions, which exclude themselves, derive from the principles of general family law. They say that if family ties were created by entering into a marriage or partnership agreement, then later, when the conditions that could have prevented the conclusion of the contract have disappeared, and if the persons themselves do not want it, they will not be broken. This is a general principle of family law, which also applies to this point. As regards checking whether a person has a partnership agreement concluded in another country, both marriages and partnerships are recorded in registers in other countries as well. If a person may have a similar contract in another country, then a notary will certainly ask for information about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U201	Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U202	President-in-Office of the Council. Dear friends! More than ten years ago, Estonia said yes to the European Union. The people of Estonia thus gave a green path to today's European values in Estonia and agreed to change our laws. At this point, I could finish my story, but I'll keep going. A little bit of a laugh at tolerance here, but I regard European values as tolerance, empathy and understanding of fellow people as the greatest human quality that is possible at all. This is sometimes a self-perceived human capacity that links the early Christian beliefs of love and tolerance to the European values of today. The most heated advocate for the protection of the family and tradition of the Foundation is also a Christian. I have to admit, I had never heard of such a foundation before this foundation began to deal with the law of cohabitation. The values that should be defended by the chairman of this foundation and its disciples, and whose protection they should also call upon people, have not, as far as I know, been protected. They have watched as Christian and even bourgeois marriages have replaced common-law marriages in Estonia, how the number of divorces and single parents has increased, how there has been a reason to talk more about domestic violence. They have not raised protests against social alcoholism or increasing drug addiction. They have not called on anyone to condemn neither trafficking in human beings nor child abuse. All these problems have left the family's protectors cold. Now, however, forces have been turned against a small minority, pulled into a powerful propaganda machine and set up an armada of cannons to actually shoot a sparrow. Within a few months, we have been able to monitor the sad scenario of overwhelming people in Estonia, inhibiting their ability to think. Inevitably, the question arises as to why, in whose interests this is being done. Why are people being aroused, and why are enemies formed? Creating an enemy form is, by the way, a very dangerous trend in history, which anyone can give examples of themselves if they want to. As far as the supporters of the Cohabitation Act are concerned, I do not agree with the fact that this is where the bay is between the younger and older generations. I don't like categorization at all. In my opinion, this bay separates those who have learned things, who live with open eyes and open hearts in modern times and who have the courage to move forward, and those who, for some reason, have become entangled in intolerance and flow, without realising what is actually being opposed. Nor am I surprised that many creatives support this law because creativity is not compatible with gloomy fanaticism. The true creator has always walked before his time, has dared to defy pettyness by showing way, has been free and independent in his decisions. That is what I want for politicians today. I couldn't imagine art without Picasso or music Stravinski, still shoving in the old place. Thanks to the courage of artists, such composers, artists, and writers are present. It will take a few years, and I believe that life will continue, that happy people will come, that children will be born and raised, and that many of the current opponents of the law of cohabitation will wonder why they were so angry in their time. But right now, it's like some kind of upside-down jihad is loose in Estonia. Such disgusting comments, such threatening and vicious writings, true, side by side with worried ones, as many of us have received in connection with the Cohabitation Act, would not have been expected of people who call themselves protectors of something. However, there are other developments. Let me quote a few: 'The law of cooperation does not take anything away from anyone, but it adds confidence to a group of people. This is exactly what is missing in Estonia. ' Or else, 'It's about people. Please vote in favour of the Cohabitation Act, thinking of people! ' Another one: 'I think it is vital for free and democratic Estonia to offer equal treatment for all our citizens. That's the only way we can keep going. ' I know a Finnish country pretty well, too. I have worked at the Finnish Institute for a long time, I am also a member of the Finnish Writers' Association and I can say that I am a Finnish expert. The Finnish people are much more religious than the Estonians, but such a law was passed there peacefully, sympatheticly, and together. Moreover, I dare say or rather know that the Finnish family and traditions are now stronger than those of Estonia. Closeness, trust and mutual respect, as well as social well-being, security, satisfaction with your country and state care for all your citizens, will contribute to the strength of your family. That is what we should stand for in Estonia together. I call on my fellow Members to show generosity and mutual respect. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U203	Really, people have everyday problems. Happiness turns away, people get sick, die. I remember a recent episode of a nice English soap Dr. Martin, where teenage girls screamed that a girlfriend was bleeding, wondering if she was going to die. Yes, Martin said, but not today. I do not understand why we are not prepared to discuss alternative ways of protecting and helping same-sex couples. They say you can't get access to your partner at the hospital. Last night, Peter Rebane complained about it in 'The Citizens of the Republic'. If a person can give up his organs and decide on it, why can't he assign a person to watch over him in a sick bed? By the way, I was just talking to the head of the hospital in Rakvere, who said that there is no real problem. If there were a problem, we could use the Patient Protection Act, for example, to overcome it. Remember, we had trouble paying compensation in the event of the death of a military officer to his unmarried partner, the mother of the child. We got it. Now the soldier himself tells us how to help his loved ones after he's fallen. § 196 of the Defence Forces Service Act: 'A Defence Forcesman and a substitute employee are entitled to appoint a natural person or persons who receive up to 50 per cent of the compensation referred to in paragraph 1 of this section. 'No drama, I mean about the procedure, drama is the loss of a soldier. Thus, solutions can be found in any area without more action and corresponding rhetoric. It is necessary to say, not to say that the regulation of factual cohabitation under the Family Law (i am referring above all to special-sex couples) requires another 20 years for people to be prepared. If, at the same time, Estonia is ready for the procedure of the Cohabitation Act, we are talking about leaving here because it is not a democratic state, then the question arises whether the main reason for leaving Estonia is not poor economic coping. We hope that this will be the main topic of the Spring elections, that it will not be a debate on the Cohabitation Act. I am not going to talk here about the IRL proposals on this subject. That's what we did successfully in Question Time. I also reject almost all the criticisms concerning the handling of this draft as such. That's pointless smart-ass. If the Reform Party has still found methods to achieve its goal of achieving this is my neutral opinion, then so far the Socats have been a beacon of democracy, a rhetorical one. Now you've lost your virginity. However, I say that the deletion of the so-called provisions relating to bringing an action does not create legal clarity, as the Ministry of Justice is trying to sell, but the law has become even more incomprehensible. It is no longer clear whether a partnership agreement can be terminated at all on the initiative of one of the parties, etc. Political will is, there is no legal. That's the principle of Toots. Estonian is a beautiful language. We're talking about having children, whether they're born or love. But we're gonna talk about getting kids, and we're gonna get them somewhere. As Soviet people, we know, of course, who are so old that you can get under the counter if you want. Younger people understand this by watching the ETV's "ENSR" show. As a naturalist, I recommend the application of traditional methods, but if nature does not allow, medical advances will help, and the ideal is still the union of man and woman. If we can't do this for different reasons, we have to accept it. The pursuit of the five richest members of the European Union is also ideal. It may sound like reformers that this is not the case today, but there is no reason to lower the bar so that we will strive for the 25 richest. As a social figure, I am concerned that this social whirlwind and the rhetoric of opportunities and freedoms will not lead us to a deadlock in the long term, because unfortunately it is not possible to find out the truth that is known in advance here. This is why I support the further training of sociologists in Estonian higher education institutions alongside engineers (my own sons are studying to be engineers). I'm gonna end up a geologist. You can still find protected species from the mineral field and do it after the nature reserve, it doesn't turn around. By failing to do so, you do not have to extract mineral resources and you can never make a nature reserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U204	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U205	Mr President! The previous speaker ended up with Plato, and I'll start with Peter the Great. One of his cups sounded like this: "Remove the talks in the duuma of the boyars to read on the page, that every man may see the foolishness of every man! ' I didn't come here to speak for the masses, not for the thousands of people. I am simply explaining to you why I personally am voting against this law. These reasons are only four, four small reasons. The first reason is that I am a member of the Riigikogu. As a member of the Riigikogu, I must ensure that the final result of the laws being processed is of high quality. How can this bill be called high quality? I'm not gonna go over everything, there's not enough time. But § 1 and § 5 rule out each other. There's a suspicion it'll open the way to paedophiles. An incapacitated person with whom a partnership contract is concluded and who, after all, may lose all of this, is the result of this text. As a member of the Riigikogu, I cannot support it. The other reason is that I'm a parent. Of course, I already have grown-up boys. It's one of them's 30th birthday. I hope, though, I'm still seeing grandchildren. I don't want a story like the one I saw on the news recently to happen to them. In a German town, a girl refused to participate in sexual education and tolerance classes because her family's morals did not coincide with having two fathers or two mothers in the family and teaching 15-year-old children to have the right sex. The details are too stupid to talk it over here. After that, his parents were punished. Once my dad went to jail, once my mom. The crowd went out on the streets to protest. But all these situations start with the first step. Now, this law we are discussing here is one such first step. This law speaks of the partnership and agreement of two people, but it is not about man and woman or father and mother, but about physical persons. This is the first step towards a situation where people who think differently will be harassed. It's definitely happening because it's happening all over the world. That's for sure. Third reason: I'm religious. That's who I am, a religious member of the Riigikogu and a parent. Like you, there is a letter signed by the Estonian Church Fathers on the table in my office. I think this is a particularly valuable letter because it is the first time that the leaders of two Orthodox churches (I would remind you that there are two registered Orthodox churches in Estonia and two sub-politics, Stefanus and Cornelius) have signed one letter and their signatures stand side by side. Yes, we believers are a minority here in Estonia. We are, by the way, the most atheistic country in the European Union, with only 27% of believers here, as Eurostat claims. But if you want to show solidarity and tolerate, consider those who are believers. There's a lot more of us than the ones you're trying to highlight right now. So I'm religious, a member of the Riigikogu and a parent. There's another fourth reason, and that's what's shaking my voice right now. Of course, I'm trying to smile at you because for the second day in a row, I've heard words I've never heard in this Chamber. I did not hear them when I wanted to talk to many of you, some even in the IX Riigikogu, about tolerance. I have wanted to talk to you about solidarity. I've wanted to talk to you about coherence and tolerance. Where are these concepts when we start talking about minorities? I am a member of the Riigikogu and a parent who is a minority believer. Tell me why I should uphold this law! You want us to be solidarity and tolerance. Where will the solidarity go if you are seriously told that the reform of the Russian upper secondary school will kill the entire education system? Three years later, a check will be made. Well, it doesn't improve the knowledge of Estonian! But that's what we talked about a long time ago. We told you that the Estonian language needs to be taught in Estonian lessons, not in physics or mathematics. This reform is idiotic, it's a waste of money. Why never listen to us? Why is this happening? 30% of people living in the country, happened like this, speak another language. They're loyal, they're tolerant, they're law-abiding, they pay taxes. Why is no one talking about coherence and solidarity in these cases? So, ladies and gentlemen, these are perhaps the most important parts of my life: I am a parent, a believer and a member of the Riigikogu, and I belong to a minority. Every factor tells me no. Therefore, and listening to what people are saying around, not believing the stories that are reproduced in carbon paper and sent out by e-mail, knowing what the real situation is, I say to you: do not open this door, wait a little bit, and look seriously at the opinion of the people. If what they said yesterday is that the majority must not decide the fate of a minority, then we will prepare our own hell. Take a break, don't do what you really regret after! I think we are going to very seriously regret this step or regret our children or grandchildren. It's true! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U206	Barbi Pilvre, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U207	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Estonia is facing a marked choice this week. The choice will be made on what cultural space we belong to, whether the Western European cultural space or some other cultural space, where, for example, Cuba, Kazakhstan, Belarus and most African countries are located. The 650th draft therefore has historical significance. Where does Estonia belong? When we joined the European Union in 2004, we actually chose a cultural package, we chose a package of human rights, respect for minorities, and a package of Western humanistic values. This package includes the legal regulation of same-sex cohabitation. In Europe, same-sex marriages are allowed in ten countries. Cohabitation has been legalised as a civil partnership in 17 other countries. There are therefore 27 countries in Europe where this regulation exists. These countries include, for example, Germany, Austria, Finland, France, Spain, Great Britain. These include Catholic lands, where the church has a strong national position. There is no regulation of the countries of the European Union so far in Latvia, Lithuania, Poland and also in Estonia. In countries where same-sex partnerships are regulated, nothing has happened to the family. Most couples are still heterosexual and are born with children. The proportion of homosexuals in the population has not increased in these countries. Iive is bigger in many of these countries than in Estonia. I am convinced that the Estonian state is so strong that we can also afford to protect the rights of minority groups. Most rights are not reduced by this law, nothing is taken away from anyone. Following the hypocrisy of society around the Cohabitation Act, it is sometimes the impression that the Riigikogu intends to ban heterosexual relations or force people to change their sexual orientation. There's nothing like this going on. No one's being taken away, nobody's being forced to change their orientation. Traditional Estonian family is not in danger. Estonia is mature to protect the rights and interests of each of its citizens. If we are talking about family values, then the Estonian family is really in danger, but rather the Estonian family is threatened by alcoholism, domestic violence and the value crisis, resulting in decaying families, abandoned children and single parents. Foundation For the Protection of Family and Tradition could deal with these serious issues, how to save the Estonian family, for example, from the destructive consequences of domestic violence or alcoholism. The registration of homosexual unions or the regulation of cohabitation will in no way affect the real risks that our family traditions face. Thus, the Cohabitation Act does not endanger the Estonian family. Today we talk a lot about the division of society. A comprehensive society respects the rights and freedoms of each of its citizens. We are prohibited from discrimination on the grounds of nationality, gender and sexual orientation on the basis of the Constitution. In my opinion, the law on partnership is, in any case, an integrative law, not a dividing law. It links, not demolishes Estonian society. In addition, he gives evidence that we live in the 21st century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U208	Thomas Tõniste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U209	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Today, one of the members of the Riigikogu wishes to say that the majority of the Estonian people are either stupid, thinking wrong or, worst of all, homophobic. But you can think the other way around, there is another way: these people are much smarter and more far-sighted, and they value family values more than they do in other countries belonging to the European cultural space, which will set an example for us. It really does not make sense to me how such a bill changing the traditions and cultural beliefs of the Estonian people has come so far near the elections that it is intended to be adopted as a law in this Chamber tomorrow. After all, this was not the subject of any political party's programme, so there is no mandate for it from the people. Very many in this Chamber have repeatedly emphasised that power must not distance the people; we must take into account the opinion of the people. Where are you now? Tonight you're talking a different story for some reason! Not to mention that you did not support the holding of a referendum on this issue, you also removed the sections concerning the court from the bill, so that, for God's sake, there should not be a vote in this Chamber which requires the vote of 51 parliamentarians, but this bill will still pass. Nor do I understand the concerns of the Socialist Group that, after some time together, a partner can become a co-owner of Volvo, a member of the Riigikogu. This justified the vote against the draft law amending the IRL Family Law. All too often, the opinion in this Chamber is that what is the problem, this bill does not take anything away from anyone. I don't think so. Much more than half of the Estonian people are deprived of their understanding of Estonia's traditional family, the Estonia where they have lived so far, where they want to live and what they want to protect. If we look a little further, is it really justified to take away from some children, for example, the possibility that if adopted, they will have both parents, both mother and father? You could say let the grown-ups do what they want. But that certainly doesn't work for children. We in this hall decide for the children today: two fathers for you, two mothers for you, and be happy, because in a traditional family, violent fathers beat you?! But what about these kids, really? What changes are taking place in a child's psyche? I doubt they're positive! How much does this affect their sexual behavior in the future, are they happy? We don't know that. In the future, people will also be at risk of losing their jobs, for example, if a teacher in a kindergarten or school expresses his firm conviction that a child has the best family with a mother and father. No one can say what a setback this law will actually set for the growth of the Estonian people in the long term. Because of my concern for the future of children and Estonia, I dare not support this bill. Well, I'll be that silly Estonian, as many people here have said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U210	Igor Gräzin, please! I'll offer you an extra time, eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U211	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Chairman, Some time ago, the newspaper Eesti Ekspress invited me and Linnar Priimäge, among others, to argue about this same law. Linnar said that he was legally a widow, a de facto happy homosexual relationship, and he does not need that law. I said that legally I was happily divorced, that I was in fact living in a heterosexual life together, and I don't need that law either. We were about to break up, but since there were Barbi Pilvre and Varro Vooglas there, we were being held up and we were talking about something. But there were no problems. Now I repeat my arguments. First of all, this law is a falsehood. The title 'Cooperation Law' is misleading. The only thing that makes any sense to him is a gay marriage. What is lacking in the regulation of factual marriage is found in the textbook of the foundations of Estonian Soviet marriage and family law issued at the University of Tartu, by Edgar Salumaa. So, the real point of the law is to establish a homosexual marriage, and so the title of the law is fake like the path of Petseri Parish. Another lie is that procedural provisions have been removed from the law, without which it does not even work theoretically. Well, for now, of course, thank God. But still, why was it done? So it doesn't take 51 votes to pass the law. If lawyers are sometimes accused of cursing the law, what can lawyers say about lawmaking today? The next step is to see with the naked eye. Just a little while longer, and we're gonna legalize gay marriages. In that case, the question arises as to why anyone needs this law. That's the only explanation for Moscow. Now, let's get down to business. Homosexual relations have been between humans and animals since the day before. Platonic love originally meant sleeping with a student, a circa 13-year-old boy, and it was thought to be part of the pedagogical methods. To save Plato and Aristotle's honor, they both found the procedure quite unpleasant. But what you don't do for a student, do you? The name of lesbian love comes from Lesbos Island, which the poet Sappho described to Homeros as a mild paradise of intimacy between women, which, by the way, Homeros did not like in general either. But we are not talking about homosexuality as such in technical terms, or even any limitation of it, unless the homosexuals begin to organize their parades again. No. Criminal punishment or any punishment for homosexuality is history. Even in England, it was abolished as early as 1967, and in the Soviet Union, this paragraph was a Communist formality. There is no particular discrimination against homosexuals, and if that happens, they are protected by law. There is no need to be gay to beat up in Tallinn at night. The problem isn't gay relationships, no matter who, but the problem is marriage. First, marriage is sacrament, ecclesiastical rite, equal to communion and baptism. You agree that the Eucharist isn't eating rusks and drinking a sip of wine, it's something different. Second, our language is disappearing. We're talking about scheming, files, smearing, and we don't know what else. We don't write letters. The SMS is an amputated, invalid Estonian language, the ugliness of which Kristjan Jaak did not realize. Our night party is half rock concert paraphrase, ETV hit show is a Tour de France broadcast. A week and a half ago, national television showed in Matthew Bourne's production of Lake Swans, where men with unshaved armpits danced all parts. Imagine the dying swan of Saint-Saëns, performed by the captain of the red-flag Baltic fleet in the topless and thongs! Lucky for those who didn't see it. By the way, this Baltic fleet is not taken from the air because the original of the production is from the St. Petersburg Maria Theatre. I know that Estonians may not exist in 50 years, which is the natural course of history. But I want to live, and when the time is right, I want to die later, the better at home in Estonia, where the blue-black-white flag flies and where Estonian culture lasts. I fear that neither homosexuals nor their opponents will notice that the traditional marriage is opposed not by homosexuality, but by the global globalisation and over-Europism that is responsible for burying all nations and cultures. To break up the family, even television shows exist: 'Women exchange', 'Landman and others. looking for a woman' So today's dispute and confrontation are only part of the major cultural conflict that characterises the present world. As long as the marriage is one of the sacred Estonian things in Estonian culture, the marriage has led to a match, and has been written about it by Särgava, Koidula, Tammsaare and Kitzberg, all Estonian literature and music, Kunuleid, Ernesaks, Saebelmann, Aav, has written about it so that, in connection with it, I do not take a single step to make homosexual relations a marriage. Three times I have quoted from this remote for the protection of my colleagues, the opening statement of the 'Process' novel of Franz Kafka, my favorite writer, last time in the defence of Siim Kallas and Ester Tuiksoo. Today they are allowed to quote Kafka's 'Process' last sentence to the MPs who are still considering their vote. 'Process', as you remember, ends with Mr. K. being killed, and the author Franz Kafka adds: 'It was as if he were ashamed to live longer than he did. ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U212	Thank you. Please, Maimu Berg, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U213	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I, like all of us, have received a lot of e-mails in recent months against the Cohabitation Act. Since most of them are uniform and probably the components of a very well-funded campaign, I have not responded. However, there are also letters written by people who have been misled or really worried about the tendency to propaganda. I want to answer these honest people today and explain why I am among the initiators of this law and will vote in favour of adopting it. Of course, this law is also needed by couples of different sexes, as Sven Veltmann, a professional lawyer in yesterday's Eesti Päevaleht, explained. But since hysteria and prophecies about the destruction of the Estonian people have been driven up on the subject of the same-sex, I will speak about it. My personal reason to support this law is linked to a study that I happened to read some time ago, which showed that among homosexual adolescents, the percentage of suicides is twice as high as among heterosexuals. I know a sad case like that myself. I think it is extremely important that the Estonian state and we, as legislators of this country, let all young people born with a different sexual orientation simply know that they do not have to be ashamed of themselves every day. In this sphere of life there is shame and suffering, which in extreme cases can lead to suicide, the most hidden and the most painful. We must say to these young people that they too have the right to be free and free without complexities, that the laws of the country regard them as naturally as any person of any special nature, which is characteristic of a minority group and does not threaten the majority group with anything. Such people have been present at all times and among all nations, regardless of the laws in force in the country, somewhere near the limit of 5%. So it's a biological pattern. We have to tell them that they are not freaks, but they are just as valuable members of society as the large majority living next to them. It has been said here today that this law is not perfect, that it still needs to be worked on, and that it needs to be implemented by changing almost 100 pieces of legislation. This is probably right, but it is the morbid hysteria that has been blown around the gay problem and the direct threats that come into the Members' mail boxes that have, unfortunately, brought the debate on this draft out of normal legal ground. We hope that the next parliamentary assembly will manage to ensure that the law can also be legally implemented. That is why its entry into force has been moved to 2016. Of course, the Riigikogu needs to deal with many important problems, and what is happening around this law seems to be a storm in a glass of water for most of the electorate. I also thought that the joint section that Mr Reinsalu spoke about yesterday should be sought, and it does not matter whether the law is passed by this or by the next Riigikogu. In recent days, both the slogans of the demonstration in front of Toompea Castle and the organised cyber attack of a small group against the information system of the Riigikogu have led me to believe that helping out a part of society is not just a problem for psychologists and educators, but also requires legal regulation, the legislator's word. We now need to make a moral decision, perhaps more important than the real functioning of this law. As has been shown in the practice of countries where such partnerships are allowed in different forms, only a small minority of potential interest groups takes advantage of the opportunity offered by the law. This will certainly be the case in Estonia. If we are only talking about same-sex partnerships, I do not believe that there will ever be more than a few hundred actual users of this law in Estonia. According to the last census, only 200 pairs of the same sex were identified as partners. But it's not so important, it's important that we give some tens of thousands of compatriots, especially the youth at the beginning of their lives, that they don't have to be ashamed of themselves, and they also have the legal right to love and happiness. The opponents of the bill fear that adopting it as a law would mean allowing homopropaganda to go to schools and kindergartens. That's stupid, because like heterosexuality, homosexuality doesn't need any propaganda, and who specially deals with it, I don't think it's a healthy person. However, the teenage young man who, on Sunday, cried out to Mihkel Raud in front of Toompea Castle that the other sexually oriented species companions were not people at all and should leave Estonia. I think he's the victim of propaganda. This propaganda has taken advantage of the fact that children have not yet developed empathy. I fear that this is not only about intolerance to a different sexual orientation, but also about intolerance to a different color, religion or nationality. Andrus Raspberry's video clip tells the story of children torturing a cat and saying that it was a Russian cat as an excuse, made you think pretty much. I call on the Russian national MPs in this Chamber to think that the protection of minority rights and tolerance to the different are universal values. I specifically address Mikhail Stalnukhin, who is no longer in this hall. His first three reasons for not being able to vote in favour of this law were perfectly understandable. On the other hand, it turned out that he was voting as a punishment against one minority because he was a representative of another minority. I don't understand that very well. Reflecting on history, and also following what is happening around us now, it is perfectly understandable that there is more intolerance among people of Russian nationality in this matter than among Estonians. But ladies and gentlemen of Ida-Viru County! Look who you've been camping with in this hall and in front of Toompea Castle. After all, these are the same political forces and people who have been opposed over the years to the smallest change in the Citizenship Act, who have been and are against even translating Estonian laws into Russian or making medical treatments available in Russian. I think it should be our duty not to try to win the voices of intolerant people, but to patiently explain to them that intolerance is quite universal, too, and it is difficult to demand tolerance for ourselves when it is denied to someone else. But a traditional family really needs protection, precisely in the sense that it is necessary to find and reduce the reasons why more than half of children are born outside an official marriage and why 60% of marriages are divorced. Unfortunately, the law we are discussing today does not affect these processes in any way. As a person who has been a traditional married man for 42 years and whose son and daughter are also married in a traditional marriage, one has been married by a Lutheran and another Orthodox clergyman, I would certainly cooperate with the protectors of the traditional family if they were to devote their energy to something really, but to nothing. It's only anger and not love that comes from being opposed. I also call for this to be considered by all those who intend to vote against the law under discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U214	Marko Pomerants, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U215	Thank you. Please, Liisa-Ly Pakosta! Eight minutes. Excuse me, mike Eiki Nestor, please! A procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U216	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, the observers of the sitting! I will use my speech to answer publicly to Herman K, who wrote me about the Law on Cohabitation, but I hope that this answer will be suitable for everyone else to whom I have not responded. Now a little bit of this letter: 'Hi, Marko! The resume of this letter is simple: if the IRL votes against the Cohabitation Act, it will remain on the wrong side of history. Following developments in older democracies, it can be said with certainty that today's opposition of the majority to the cohabitation law is temporary. I call on you to vote in favour of the Cohabitation Act. All the best! Herman K., your former partymate. ' Good Herman and other advocates and opponents of the Cohabitation Act! I will start with a vote in favour and against and that people are watching it. Every party, but probably many politicians would like to be more conservative than the IRL at some point in popularity, more liberal than the Reform Party, greener than the Greens and the Socialist than the Soviets. But that's not possible. This is also the case with the vote on the Cohabitation Act: you cannot at the same time be in favour and against the bill and apply for the votes of all voters. The arguments for one or the other must be within us. I'm about to say I'm against adopting this law. At the same time, although I am 50+, and according to stereotypes, I should be in favour of criminalising homosexual relations, I do not hate homosexual people. I communicate with them, do not give them an assessment of their orientation, and do not think that homosexual relations should be banned. I'm not a churchman, but I have good acquaintances among church characters. Thus, the saying is that, as God has thought and created, I, as a naturalist, feel more like a metaphor. But if so, how can I be against this law? I think this law is like regional policy. We take the example of Finland, a country that is more tolerant than Estonia. Everyone understands that, in the long run, the Finnish people are flowing around Helsinki, but the country is still engaged in regional policy so that Santa Rovaniemi is not alone and elves and elves are not camped near Vantaa immediately. And that is pointless action, says colleague R. from the Committee on Legal Affairs. He is not expected to call his Southern Estonian voters meaningless. This is also the case with the regulation of same-sex relationships. Indeed, the world is diversifying, and traditional marriage is losing its share. But do we need to boost this process in a small country like Estonia? If there was a question on the table about declaring Russian as a second national language, then by analogy, it should be done, because it is democratic and nothing is taken away from anyone. Anyone who speaks Estonian will not be taken from it. Or what's the situation anyway? We'd be ahead of public opinion. After all, this is a large minority. Can we meet 40 originators? Now the myth that law guarantees family happiness. No, I don't. Looking at the percentage of divorces, we see that formal formality doesn't guarantee happiness. You can get beat up. This will be the case with the partnership law. A little extra time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U217	Once is enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U218	My procedural point is that this right arises when the people's name was given to the speaker, not from this hall. If Liisa Pakosta is generous and names Kiisler five times, then Kisler will be entitled to submit one reply.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U219	Only one rejoinder shall be entitled. Now it's all done. [[In the objection room.]] One line can be submitted! Is there a procedural question, Eiki Nestor? Please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U220	With the first kick, I think it's a procedural question. By the way, when you read the Rules of Procedure Act, you will see that it does not say that you should necessarily name a name. If it is clear who we are talking about, the right to rejoinder must be given. So I'm asking for the right to recite!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U221	Got it. Thank you. There are no other lines, because no names have been mentioned anymore. Does Siim Kisler have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U222	I mean, I haven't lied to you about defending this bill. As far as adoption is concerned, both the first and the second versions of the draft have the same idea that partners may adopt only the biological child of their partners. In the first version of the draft, there was a reference to the family law, where it is written in the same way. Now this provision is also included in the Cohabitation Act, so that it can be understood and easily understood by people who walk and say that either I am lying or someone else is lying or that we are trying to hide something in this bill. Moreover, I may make it worse in this sense that, thanks to this disputation, now that you are reading this bill very carefully, you will also understand that heterosexual couples living together can actually adopt only one another's biological child.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U223	Okay. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U224	Since I was appointed here before, I too had the right to make a small speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U225	Got it. Does Valdo Randper want to ask you a question? Would you like a procedural question, or did it happen by accident? [[Shout from the hall.]] I see. A procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U226	I'm gonna have to explain, because then the ambassadors don't know all the facts. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! After we were attacked by spam after the Bronze Night, the Riigikogu's Internet connection operates defence systems that should automatically protect your letter boxes. They also worked last autumn when this system became fully logical. In response, some MPs resented the fact that they could not receive the letters of the voters. This restriction was therefore removed and I hope that all members of the Riigikogu received the letters of the voters. Secondly, I would like to say that for some reason I believed that our office, which is involved in this, had explained this to the ambassadors. If he hasn't, I'm sorry! But if the ambassadors just didn't understand the explanation, then they didn't want to understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U227	Thank you. I am simply correcting one thing for the sake of the verbatim: it was not last fall, but last session, spring, it was spring. Does Siim Kisler have a line or a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U228	I have a line. Eiki Nestor isn't telling the truth. These messages were not automatically blocked, they were used by people. The first letters came through. If Eiki Nestor couldn't throw them in the box anymore, like he said, then after that, they put this block on. In the request for information, I asked for the names of the senders of nearly 2,000 letters to be restored. I was told it could not be done. I can introduce these answers to anyone who wishes to.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U229	We've got two minutes from the rep.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U230	I have a line from position because my name was named.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U231	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I would like to take stock of how we have arrived at today's difficult and difficult situation with this draft and to think a little backwards about the more important signs in the procedure for this draft. This, of course, started with the presentation of the bill when it was declared that the purpose of the draft was to help and protect more than 170000 people who are in a common-law relationship. They said it was for them that the law was meant to help them. The experts indicated that this was not the case in practice. The Notaries' Chamber wrote that the bill gives the impression that giving couples of the same sex the possibility to regulate their cohabitation would be the main objective of the law, which is to hide between couples of different sexes behind the problems of factual cohabitation, and this is not in line with good lawmaking practice. I asked the draft waitress who replied to me that she could not take very seriously the political statements made by the Chamber of Notaries. Today we all understand here that the House of Notaries was right. It was a cover-up, it was a blur, and it was an attempt to trick people. Nobody's hiding it today. But that's the original insincere of the initiators, the troubles of the bill. That's why he doesn't fit in with the rest of the law, which is why he's like a foreign body, which is why so many other laws need to be changed later, and that's why this strange structure is created for couples of different sexes, on top of which everyone shoulders, and with which no one really knows how to do anything. Secondly, it is very important to talk about inclusion in the draft. I'm very sorry Laine Randjärv is in the chair right now. In fact, I am sorry not for this, but for the fact that Eiki Nestor left the Riigikogu Hall. I'd really like him to be here. Once this bill was processed, people's letters of protest against the bill began to arrive. At that time, the Chairman of the Riigikogu, who has said a great deal that the current coalition is the coalition of inclusion, wrote that his favorite button at the moment is 'Trash'. He called the deletion of people's letters of protest to throw in a box and described the people who sent the letters of protest with the word'simple'. Anyone can still read it on his Facebook wall. This shows how arrogantly the initiators, as well as the Riigikogu Board, took the matter and thereby built very deep tensions into the discussion of the draft. The protest letters did arrive, but at one point I began to feel that not all the letters arrived. I submitted a request for information to the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, and Director Maria Alajõe replied to two responses, which I can introduce to everyone, that nearly 2 000 letters have been blocked and have not been forwarded to me or other members of the Riigikogu. You know, I even understand if Eiki Nestor, as Chairman of the Riigikogu, does not want to receive these letters and requires them to be blocked, but I do not understand if the opposition representative's correspondence with the voters is simply blocked. These letters have still not been received by most members of the Riigikogu. What country we're talking about, friends, what tolerance we're talking about! I would remind you that Eiki Nestor said in the opening speech of this session in this very Chamber and in this very place: 'In addition to election day, the voters have the right and the opportunity to express their convictions to Members every day. ' Honestly, I still don't understand why the initiators of this bill didn't use the fact that people sent protest letters in order to actually communicate with people, to discuss the problems of this bill, to take the tension off. It wasn't done. The next important sign of the draft procedure was the decision to remove the provisions relating to the bringing of an action, which require 51 votes, as it was seen that 51 votes were simply not sent together in this Chamber. That's what we saw today. It was understood that these votes would not be received, and it was decided to remove these points and leave this problem to someone else in the future. But the problem doesn't go away, the 51 votes need to be found at some point. 87 laws need to be amended, in addition to the need for ministerial regulations, none of which have been included as implementing acts in this draft. All in all, this bill is a pattern for bad legislation. I hope he gets the annual bonus for that too. It's a good lesson in not making one law. The result of this poor legislation is a situation in which we are today: tolerance has decreased, society is polarising more and more strongly every day, as shown by surveys, and tensions between people have increased considerably. There's less tolerance. It is now accused of a foundation and that people do not know what the bill says. Sorry, most of the 40 initiators didn't know what was in that bill when they filed it, so I can take poison on it. But it doesn't matter, the important thing is that you missed the opportunity to communicate with people and explain the subject. You were arrogant and arrogant. The most important thing is that without this bill, Estonia is a free country. All international organisations, led by the UN, have recognised that the Estonian state does not violate human rights. Everyone understands that there is no ban on the cohabitation of same-sex couples in Estonia at the moment, and no one is going to ban it. It's actually about the kids. What about them? Although Valdo Randper's initiators at first reading lied to us all at least twice that this bill does not give couples of the same sex the right to adopt, there is a paragraph here in the law on this matter. It has not been correctly said, it has been said about everything else, but not about children. I want to finally say my own deep conviction. I do not agree with people who do not support this bill, but they say that the Estonian people are not ready to adopt this bill. I think that the Estonian people are mature to deal with more complex situations and to take more difficult decisions. But this bill isn't as mature as it is to accept him. That's why you can't do it. On behalf of the IRL Group, I have a motion to the Riigikogu to interrupt the second reading of bill 650. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U232	Thank you. Please, Siim Kisler! Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U233	Thank you. Jaak Allik, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U234	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable guests! Good guests! Let me start by saying a few words about hate. It is already more than disturbing when people who oppose you, me, or the law of cohabitation are accused of hatred in every possible and impossible case. Mr. Randpere said in the discussion between us that I never even read the law of cohabitation. It's a wonder he didn't add that the Arrow couldn't read because he was at practice on time. Otherwise, it should not be mentioned, but it is not the level of the national community, it is the level of Delfi. I have read the Cohabitation Act, but above all, I have read the Constitution, which states that it is prohibited and punishable by law to incite hatred, and which says that hatred must not be incriminating to others, in this case to the overwhelming majority of the Estonian people, as all surveys have shown. It is starting to feel as if § 41 of the Constitution no longer applies, which says that everyone has the right to remain true to their opinions and beliefs, no one must be forced to change them. I think the least you can do is force the people. Is it really so hard to understand that loving someone doesn't mean hating everything else? A normal seer does not hate color-blind, the hearer does not hate deaf, and vice versa, although color-blind and deaf experience much more vital and professional restrictions than any of their kind lovers. Inevitably, you start to think that you must really hate yourself if you live by the belief that everyone else hates you. What a certainty it is that viciousness is a source of viciousness. If it hasn't been someone's wish, unfortunately, it's now unrequested. § 27 of the Constitution states very clearly: the family as a basis for the survival and growth of the people and society is protected by the state. We often talk about the letters of the Constitution, but we always stress the meaning and spirit of the Constitution. If so, I am sure that the creators of the country's basic text, by family growth, hardly meant same-sex cohabitation, honeycombs, or even associations of many men or women, which in the great world is not a rarity. We could talk a lot about the family, but I certainly cannot agree with what a member of the Riigikogu said on a radio show that in today's society, the family is a classic concept. The founders of our constitution had to think about Estonia. We, too, must now think about Estonia and whether it is right to abandon the meaning and spirit of the Constitution at a point where the survival of the state and the people is most directly emphasised. I don't think values are a political commodity. I'm done with that. Good work on the bill! Happy Women's Day to all male members of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U235	Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U236	Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U237	Thank you. Of course, I really want to thank everyone who has been in favour of this bill. All the letters I have received have given me a great deal of support. Indeed, the letters that are in favor are all so personal, they are all different, and there is a small story behind each letter. These letters are so warm that one day they could even produce a collection of them, and they can be printed. Thank you all very much. Really, thank you to the people who have dared to come out of the closet during this debate, as they say, and admit that they live in the same-sex family. It certainly wasn't easy, but they've done it. Great credit to them for that! This bill has also been special to me because, for the first time in seven years since I have been a member of the Riigikogu, I have been threatened with being sued. After yesterday's debate, after a round of questions and answers, a group of people decided that I had to publicly apologize or they would sue me. But that's it. This is just an example of how distinctive and special this whole process has been. I am also a minority representative, as Mikhail said here. I know that very many Russian-speaking people do not support the adoption of this law. They've been talking about it. I have been asked why do I support this law when voters turn their backs on me and do not choose me again? I say, 'C'est la vie! ' If I really am not in the next Riigikogu, I can at least live calmly, knowing that I have done something good for Estonia. I am convinced that the adoption of this law will make us all happier and better, although not tomorrow, not the day after tomorrow, and perhaps not even in ten years' time. But other countries' experience shows that the more tolerant, tolerant and open society is, the happier and safer people feel in this society, the more creative and innovative it is. It's not just a delusion, science has proven that the higher the level of tolerance, the better people live in this society. I also want my children to live peacefully and happily. I don't know who they grow up to be or what their sexual orientation is, but I want society to accept them and they'll be loved. Because, as you can see, I'm wearing a T-shirt with a message that love wins hate. I'm sure of it. Love wins anyway! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U238	Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U239	Indeed, the rights and interests of children have not been taken into account in any way in this bill; they are completely defenceless. Everyone can read the draft first reading verbatim. I suggest that we do so and see how the representative of the initiators clearly confirmed at least twice that this draft does not give couples of the same sex the right to adopt. Yet it's in this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U240	Good Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U241	Thank you. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Tarmo Tamme!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U242	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, listeners! I do not want to talk about the substance of this draft as much as about the form and what is really bothering me with the procedure for this draft. Firstly, it is disturbing that such matters of great importance to the people should be discussed when a legitimate mandate has been asked of the people to some extent. It has become apparent today that when the Riigikogu elections came, the Social Democrats were the only ones who had written in their party's programme that they wanted to initiate and turn the bill of partnership into a law. They must be commended for this, they made an honest move and at least let the people know what they wanted to do. No other party came up with this during the election. Now that there are fewer than five months left until the next elections, I believe that this draft will be tried to legitimise in haste. It would be fair if, for the spring elections of the Riigikogu, the parties would write this idea into their programme and the people would either give it support or not. I think the tension and emotions would be a lot less. Why hurry, why not wait till spring? Secondly, I always feel that this law is more needed by someone else than by Estonians, that it is being imposed on us from somewhere else. Remember, when this bill was submitted to the Riigikogu proceedings, four foreign embassies made a joint application and acknowledged the Riigikogu for taking up this important subject. I don't know about the other members of the Riigikogu, but it bothered me. I would like to understand for myself and decide whether this is necessary or not. I don't think anyone on the outside should be teaching me and my colleagues. The third thing that bothers me. However, as Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I believe that there is a contradiction with § 27 of the Constitution. There will certainly be a solution from the Supreme Court. When the Supreme Court has finally unraveled § 27, we can only say who is lost and whether is wrong or how this law is passed. In any case, I am voting against, and no one has influenced me to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U243	Thank you. I ask Annely Akkermanni to speak to the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U244	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen and guests! In my understanding, God's love is the same for homosexuals and heterosexuals as for conceived children. Today, I was moved to give a speech by a well - known 'Spectator' clip from a baby boom, where a member of a gay family spoke happily about how it is possible to organise the fertilization of an egg in India for expensive money and the carrying of a child in a foreign womb. The only concern was that buying a child could become ugly and, in fact, quality is not guaranteed. There is free blood donation in Estonia, free of charge and strictly voluntary organ donation. The people who do this have a big heart. During the previous debate in this Chamber, we reached a common understanding with Neeme Suur, the judge of the Committee on Legal Affairs, that there are very many serious problems arising from surrogates. Surrogateism is prohibited in Estonia, and buying the surrogate service is purely a trade with a woman's body. If this is done in an organized manner, then it is organised crime. We all know how widespread violence against women is in the world, how frustrated the lives of the victims of human trafficking and how they must work to return to normal life in the future. There is another law on this area on our desks, namely the new Child Protection Act. We have not paid much attention to this process yet. The draft is in line with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, which states: 'The child needs special protection and care due to his or her physical and mental immaturity, including appropriate legal protection, both before and after birth. In all activities involving children by public or private social welfare institutions, courts, executive or legislative bodies, the interests of the child must be given priority. " The new Child Protection Act will be created to shape the behaviour and lifestyle of a child in society that is valuable and conducive to the development of the child, to create an environment that supports the child, to put the child's interests first, to improve the quality of life of the child, to support the child's comprehensive development, and to ensure timely and appropriate assistance and care for the child in health and well-being conditions. Since the beginning, the main argument of the supporters of the Cohabitation Act has been that it does not undermine anyone's rights. At the same time, the law provides for the right of couples of the same sex, who are inherently barren, to adopt the children of third parties. The source was described by the Spectator clip. The law of cohabitation can be viewed in the light of this case. If we vote in favour of the Cohabitation Act in the Riigikogu today, we will give this case ethical and moral approval. This law harms someone's interests, this law tramples on the rights of mothers and children. I especially appeal to women and mothers in this room. Think of women in India who are mentally, physically, or materially in such a situation that they must give up their nine - month - hearted child for money. If you feel that this is extremely violent against your mother and child, vote against this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U245	Thank you. Viktor Vassilyev, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U246	Hi! My name is Viktor, and I'm straight. Now you have to say, "Hi, Viktor! " Look, in the old days, I never thought of making such statements. I've always respected the LGBT society, they're nice, they're good people. They're a little different than us, but that's their inside thing. I don't touch them, they don't touch me. We can live together in society, and we don't disturb each other. They're a minority, there's nothing we can do about it. There are many minorities. Redheads are a minority too, aren't they? The same way you can fight for the rights of redheads to be harassed. We're creating some kind of redheads' union, let's say being a redhead is a frontrunner. That is because young people, who are particularly prone to believe in propaganda, really say that they all want to be redheads. Whether they are or not, they go and paint their hair red. You know, I don't mind if the LGBT people are really LGs, BTs aren't involved, just like they're registering their cohabitation. Oh, my God! Considering that almost half of the heterosexuals probably live without registration and have nothing to do with them, it doesn't really matter. But if a war has been waged in society, that some defend themselves and their family and Christian values, while others defend their existence and their right to behave differently, then this war creates a lot of misinformation, and this is especially the case for young people. You know what? Given that our people's lives are negative, I would say that it is extremely regrettable that young people understand it in such a way that homosexual behaviour is still something good, it is the future, it is the perspective, we are all good homosexual people. It's on them. In a homosexual relationship, whether registered or not, people are not re-produced. After all, you can buy ten of these eggs from Africa on a cell phone or you don't know how to adopt children, but there's no reproduction. That's a problem. In Australia, France, wherever the great nations live, tens of millions of people will be safe. How many of us are there? Whether it's 120,000 or 10,000, no one knows exactly how much. This includes either 60% or 70% of the population. In this demographic situation, homopropaganda cannot be allowed. I'm not afraid of that word because right now, the fight for the rights of LGBT people has gone down a vicious homo-propaganda path. It's not right, it shouldn't be allowed. I'd like three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U247	Are you sure? Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U248	Thank you. That is one aspect of the matter. The second aspect is this. Listen, dear people, good ambassadors, who will be voting on this law tomorrow! You, who want to vote yes, squeezing the green button, imagine that your lovely child brings you a life partner of the same sex and says that Daddy or Mommy, they are now the family. Is that what you want? Once again, I have nothing against the LGBT community, just as I have nothing against redheads, but we are currently being tested with some kind of political technology. A minor problem will be taken as to whether same-sex couples can register for marriage or cohabitation. In society, it really is a trifling problem. Society faces much more difficult and important problems and challenges that need to be addressed. But right now, the entire Estonian people are being driven onto the street that we are now going to discuss and solve this problem, because it is the most important thing for us. Well, it's not! If this technology has now been tested on us and it has become apparent that because of a small problem, it is possible to dispel the Estonian people, take into account that this technology is also being used for the second and third time. There are other minorities, my God! It's stupid in the world, isn't it? Stupid people are harassed: they give a bad grade at school, he doesn't get a decent job, he gets a little pay. Fools are being bullied. Well, evil spirit, let's pick fools in the Riigikogu, all the power for fools! Let the people of Estonia be ruled by a fool! Oh, but is that really the case and we've missed something? People, stay alert! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U249	Please maintain a respectful attitude! Please, Imre Sooäär! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U250	I thought I wouldn't take the floor, but after the previous speaker, I have to do it. Good manager! Honourable representatives of the people! In the Middle Ages, left - handedness was thought to be one of the signs of witches, and the life of a left - handed person could end at the stake. In Soviet times, it was considered a deviant, and such children were taught to write with their right hand. Can you imagine today that the right to write with your left hand could be put into a referendum? I've noticed that a top athlete among us is also signing with his left hand. Let him give, we have free land and free men. I promise that if anyone wants to restrict the rights of the left-handed in this room, I'll be the first man on the barricades to defend my colleague. When I was elected to the Riigikogu a dozen years ago, I never dreamed that my own life candle might ever be extinguished right here on the grave of Kalevipoeg. This story happened after the Eesti Päevaleht wrote that I was the initiator of the Cohabitation Act and one of the carriers in the Riigikogu. It was a beautiful sunny morning. I walked down from Toompea to the Liberty Square, where an older man approached me. He looked at me with his dark eyes and said he'd kill me right there if I kept working on this bill. Yeah, you heard me right. He had read about me on the page of a notorious foundation, claimed that he had already beaten the piers during the consultative period and was not afraid of anything. I was speechless. It wasn't the first death threat I had received, but it was definitely the most immediate one. I got my first death threat from school when my classmate said to me, "Fucking faggot, I'm gonna fucking kill you! " I didn't hurt him, I hadn't touched him with my finger, he wasn't my type at all. My love was the most beautiful girl in school, the medal hope. I was just different, talking to my parents, music circles, making a band, not hanging out with classmates around the corner. I had other interests. Anyone who listens to music will understand. He attacked me, not a little bit, but with force, because the others incited me. They wanted to see the gladiator fight. I don't like to fight, I believe in a good word and its strength. He wasn't exactly the sharpest pencil in our class, but he had his fist. I lost the first two rounds. Fortunately, my mother was a teacher of physical education, from whom I inherited a strong physique. Now I'm paraphrasing Mihkel Rauda. When I beat the shit out of a faggot after the third gang, no one ever touched me. There was respect. Life struggle in the Lord's Zoo is tough. But I could experience others being suppressed with a certain word of intriguing. Ilmar Raag's "Class" film is just a surface ripple of what actually happens in schools. The most disgusting episodes will never make it to the movie theater. I've seen them myself. It's nothing but fear and hatred deep in the soul of our society. Hate for those who are just different from us, be they fags, niggers or murgers, as someone wrote to the members of the Riigikogu last night. Where's that grudge coming from? Who encourages it, and who finances it? Who will benefit from the division of the Estonian state? Think about it. Yesterday, a friend told me how a traditional family father had recently beaten up his teenage son's home farm in the yard because he discovered his son's love relationship with his classmate when he looked at his son's phone. The boy escaped from home and is now hidden in the barn of his relatives. He's thinking about suicide. Did this father read that SAPTK notebook, which is essentially a gay-poor book? How many more young men have to die free because they just can't take any more? Estonia is not blind. Everyone has noticed how many emotions, how many fears this bill has brought to the surface of our people's souls. What ordinary citizens do not know is that some people in Estonia have had to live every day in their lives under fear and mockery, in kindergartens, schools, workplaces. Read the story of actor Risto Hat, what it is like to live in a homophobic republic called Estonia. The text of the Hakristi and Varro received a message in the letter boxes of the Riigikogu yesterday. Where are we headed? Does what unrolled before the Riigikogu on Sunday make our country stronger and more united? People are panicked, they are invited to sing "Mother's Heart" together because soon this song will be banned. What incredible nonsense is that? Good opponents of the bill, please read the text of the bill! None of its paragraphs alter the definition of a family, impose anything, legitimize a gay marriage, allow adoption outside the family, or allow partners to step up at the altar. They're all lies. Why does one Christian take the right to put his hand on the happiness of others? How can anyone decide that your sincere feeling is an anomaly, that your love is sick, that you are not family together? Why does it scare us when someone has different ideals and a different family model? The way they live their lives doesn't concern us. I don't like a bearded woman either, I don't like it at all, I don't like it, but I don't judge her for it. I don't think his face should be covered in front of the kids and some fun singing contest would collapse because of a diva. Let him sing his songs. I also do not like gay parades in the Old Town of Tallinn because they are not linked to our cultural space. They're part of the anonymous charm of the big cities, yes, but we do have the opposite effect. But I also understand the pain of the people who organize these parades. Their heart screams for help because here in front of the castle, a small man recommends that some people leave Estonia because they are gay, not people. It is not the young man whose worldview has not yet developed that concerns me, but those who shape his worldview. Are these our ideals? Are these our traditional Estonian families where this attitude is taught? Not everyone gets it, and some people don't want to get married. At present, the rights of partners of different sexes are also unprotected. The bill provides basic legal protection, as common obligations and responsibilities arise already on the first day of the partnership, and marriage can be later. From the inter-party discussion, it became clear that the path of gender-neutral cohabitation, which covers couples of both the same and the different sexes, is now a sensible choice for Estonia. Why deny it? In politics, someone has to take responsibility. Yes, I take the responsibility that I have dared to touch this rotten blight, as today's Estonian Express writes. But I've done it in the sincere faith that every blight that's not being treated, and that's getting bigger, will cause blood poisoning once in a while. If I get shot for this, I will accept it with honour, standing up for the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and protecting all people. A deep bow to colleagues who have come to support the bill in overcoming their inner fears! No one knows exactly the end result, because three political parties have left the decision free, but it's for the best. I sincerely believe that this is a necessary step towards a more tolerant and inclusive society. We are faced with a choice of whether or not we are following public opinion. If the legislator does not rise higher and we do not have the courage at the crucial moment to be statesmen and to move society from the points of concern, then we do not have the country either. Good people's representatives! I don't know which hand Kalevipoeg held the sword, but I believe that one day, the time will begin when all people will be safe in this country, whether they are redheaded or left-handed, blackheads or curlyheads, all the men and women of Estonia, one, together with the other. Let us give them this opportunity! They are all one Estonian family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U251	Got it. Thank you very much for the clarification. We give the floor to Liisa-Ly Pakosta. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U252	I'll tell you right now, Siim Kisler. Now for the speech. Who or what is not included? You probably remember your childhood, or you know through your children that this is a task that children are often given to solve. One line is given, and the child has to find someone in that line or something that doesn't belong in that line. My three - year - old daughter, Helm, and I recently solved one of these pictures. There was an eagle, a rooster, a pelican, and an owl. Older people may already perceive that the creator of the assignment was referring to roosters as a bird. Unfortunately, my child was the first to offer that the eagle was not among the others. I was scared to ask why. The child replied that the eagle was the only one flying high. I had to agree with Helm, but I asked him to try again. Next, he suggested it could be an owl. Why, I asked more and more anxiously. The answer was that the owl was the only one moving at night. I forbade the child to try again and offer another feature that was not included in it. The child thought, tried, so his head swelled, and finally he triumphantly offered a pelican. Why the pelican? He's the only one living in the water, that's the answer. Unfortunately, the circle of topics that we are dealing with here is the same as that which is not included. The number of hate speeches that have struck us is so depressing that I am sure to confirm my belonging to the group that opposes all forms of hate speech. I do not regard as absolutely normal a situation in which people are asked to be silent and not to speak or to use expressions that I do not want to use on this board, for example, because I have raised the issue of children in this draft. I have received the answer that the subject of children does not fit in with the philosophy of this draft, does not fit in with general social standards and is not related to this draft. Oh, I wish! I do not agree with the fact that the subject of children does not meet the general social standards of Estonia, and it must also be recognised that it is very much related to this draft. Yes, I assure you, as I have confirmed for many years, and I will continue to assure you that I have nothing against the registration of different types of families when people wish to do so. I can even say that I support it. But why am I voting against this bill? Now I will read out the dry points by section, which I absolutely cannot agree with, and which I have already signalled when this draft was being prepared. Let's cut by cut. The title of paragraph 9 in the text of the second reading is 'Registered life partners' maintenance obligations. If we take family law as a comparison, this title is different from sections 15 and 16 of the Family Act. In both cases, family law speaks of mutual and other family members' maintenance obligations, and it is specifically stated that the primary objective is the well-being of each other and of the children. Unfortunately, no mention is made of children in the rules on maintenance obligations of the Cohabitation Act. On the contrary, it is emphasised that only two partners have a maintenance obligation. But, unfortunately, it gets worse. Paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 state that in the case of a partnership, the partners have the right to enter into additional contracts for further maintenance. Yes, this right is still open to all people, and in that sense, this bill does not add anything. On the contrary, the notaries themselves have highlighted an ethically questionable situation where two young people go to the notary and then the notary has to explain to them that they have the choice between the two options. The property relationships and all other things are exactly the same, but under option A, they still have a partner's maintenance obligation after the end of the partnership or the divorce, and under option B there is no such obligation. Imagine now when these two young people start consulting each other and A tells B that it would be better to choose the option where there is no further maintenance obligation. In addition, I would stress that it is entirely unnegotiable what financial obligations will lead to for the Estonian state a situation where, in the case of exactly the same cohabitation, we really want these cohabitations to be exactly the same as the one that the state has in one case a later maintenance obligation and, in the other case, a partner or ex-partner. But let's move on to the draft text. When discussing maintenance obligations, it should also be noted that § 111 of the Family Act provides the father of the child with an absolute maintenance obligation for the mother of the child 8 weeks before and 12 weeks after the birth of the child. How such a maintenance obligation applies to the mother of the child when the mother of the child has entered into a cohabitation agreement with another person is, of course, exciting to see that. But that is certainly not the biggest problem with this bill. See § 21 "End of transactions related to the partnership agreement' and § 22 "Family housing and housing property at the end of the partnership agreement'. I can see that I can't go through all the points by a long shot. I would like to make a simple comparison: the Swedish Cohabitation Act stipulates that the dwelling will still remain for the person who is raising the child, no such requirement will arise in Estonia. Now we reach the worst part of the right to communicate with a child and problems with adoption. I don't know what the people who wrote in the bill said that a couple could only communicate with a child living in this family after the right to communicate with that child has been established through the court. For example, there are two adults living together who raise one adult child. This is a perfectly normal situation in the Republic of Estonia. After these two people have entered into a partnership agreement, another adult can only communicate with the child after the court has set up communication arrangements. That is exactly what § 15 (1) of the bill says: 'The registered partner, who is not the parent of the child of another partner, has the right to communicate with the child of another partner under § 143 (4) of the Family Act. " This paragraph is precisely the right to access through the courts. The worst point, in my opinion, is the provision that a non-biologic parent may, after the breakup, set up a procedure for communicating with the child through court. What do you mean? When people get along well, communicate as much as they want, it's a perfectly normal thing. However, it is not normal for third and fourth partners to be required through court to communicate on Thursdays from 5:00 to 7:00 and on Sundays from 8:00 to 10:00. I'm sorry! As far as adoption is concerned, Mr Kiisler can submit a reply, but these points here are, in my opinion, not in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which says that adoption must always be in the interests of the child and that there is no justification or justification for granting anyone any implanted rights to receive adoption. Adoption is only justified if the child needs a family rather than if the family needs a child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U253	Thank you. Aivar Riisalu, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please! Please stick to your time! Siim Kiisler, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U254	I have a rejoinder because I was mentioned.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U255	Let's do this line. Aivar Riisalu, do you agree to be on the speaker's desk until then, will you make it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U256	I'm coming! [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U257	Since my name was named, I had the right to reply. I wanted to use it to tell Aivar that if you don't know how to behave, ask me, I'll help you. But to Siim Valmar, who keeps accusing me of lying, I say, read the entire verbatim, read the first text of the bill, and remember this radio debate where you and I participated. It has always been said that couples of the same sex can adopt the biological child of another partner. In the first draft version there was a reference to § 49 of the Family Act, if I remember correctly, in the current version it is directly included in the Cohabitation Act. That's the difference. It has been done simply to make this thing more understandable and simple. I am saddened to experience that this has not helped anyone to understand better, at least not here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U258	Thank you. Cameron Maruse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U259	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen in this Chamber and in the offices! I do not have the prepared text, but I have decided to say a few words to you. I do not consider it possible or necessary to repeat the sentiments of the previous speakers, Valdo Randpere, Laine Randjärv, Barbi Pilvre and Maimu Berg, or Jaak Allik. They are in line with the understanding that I represent, I agree with them. I want to start by expressing my appreciation for the integration that has taken place in Estonia. About one third of the hundreds of e-mails that have come to our phones or mailboxes are in Russian. This means that these people have closely monitored our political and public life, read through the bill and shaped their position. Oh, my God! And we are worried about integration here! Whether it's really that way or it's been triggered, I don't know. But I know that we should notice the general, abstraction of the individual details that make us feel upset or irritated, and think that what we are deciding or talking about here today is actually a matter of value space. What value space do we want to belong to? Do we want to be part of a historical, fundamental, orthodox political value space, or do we want to be part of a modern European value space? That's where all the next things split up. This decision is a sign for us and for the world around us. If we consider ourselves to be very pro-European both in economic matters and in the organisation of political life, then we should do the same in private and rights and freedoms. Very many reactions are justified by religious or clerical arguments. However, according to the Constitution, there is no state church in Estonia, which means that the church is separated from the state. Is this division real, or has division and confrontation been triggered? This is certainly partly because people have different opinions, but I believe that these opinions have been, to a significant extent, deliberately and deliberately heated and pushed up. The young generation, born in free Estonia, enjoying freedom, wandering around Europe and the rest of the world, feels it instinctively and senses that if we continue in our former value zone, this dimmed atmosphere is not acceptable to them. What's the result? They will give up, for living in such a hostile and intolerant atmosphere will once come to a limit. We don't need it. We are a small nation, we should care for everyone who is among us, and give a helpful look at the hand of friends to all who are among us. Erki's Arrow is right, anger is bad. Really. Let us not sow wrath; let us hold it back. But right now, on the contrary, everything is happening by the way of hunting up, and that is not the way we should go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U260	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu speech chair Priit Sibula! Eight minutes, as a member of the Riigikogu wishes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U261	Ladies and gentlemen, Guests! I would first of all like to address the people who have already expressed their views on this subject with regard to this draft. I have responded to some of you, but unfortunately, everyone has not yet had an answer. Thank you for writing and supporting the law. We have a different view of this law, but we have been able to communicate peacefully and without emotions. One of the supporters thanked me for replying and wrote: "It is good that people have different opinions. That's the basis of life. A strong forest is rich in species, the world is made rich in species. " Many thanks also to you who wrote and said that the law must not be passed under any circumstances. I'm thinking the same thing. Thank you very much to the thousands who thought it necessary to come to Toompea on Sunday to express your spirit! We were not there against anything, at least in my opinion, but in favour of the values that we consider most important. We are not in love with anyone, but in support of a family ideal that we think is made up of man, woman, and children. We know that there are many others besides such an association, but this is what we think the ideal is. It is easy for me to speak here today because, when I was running for office, I wrote in the introductions that I am standing up for traditional family values and that I am opposed to legalising so-called homosexual marriages. I asked for a mandate and got it. I represent myself and my constituents. At least they know what I'm doing here. President Ilves stressed at the inaugural session a month ago that the electorate's mandate can and must make strong decisions. That's exactly what I'm doing. It is true that he spoke of this in another context, i.e. in the context of reforms and Estonia's role model. Here I take the opposite view. In my opinion, Estonia could serve as an example for the rest of Europe, also with a declining population, where the rights of the individual have been set above all and above all. We could keep the ideal of the family and set an example. We're smaller, and we're going to have a demographic disaster faster than anyone else. We are looking for solutions and we are holding values, not following the example of others. You want to decide for most of your constituents how to act. But why don't you take the time to discuss these matters with them? If you think this is the right law, I expect you to be able to explain it to people as well as other important issues. Believe me, it's a good way to communicate with people. At the inaugural session a month ago, Speaker Nestor said: 'In addition to election day, the voters have the right and the opportunity to express their convictions to Members on a daily basis. ' I am particularly pleased to note that an experienced politician is changing so quickly, because, to my knowledge, it was Mr Nestor who tried to save us from the e-mails of the people who opposed the union law and asked us to stop them from arriving in the e-mail boxes of the ambassadors without asking me if I needed such protection. I'm sorry if my statement wasn't true! The speaker also said: 'Knowing that there will be a heated dispute over the Cohabitation Act, I have only one request for you: the opponents of the bill could also admit that the adoption of this law cannot change anyone's preference for choosing a partner. It's still provided by God or nature, how someone believes in it. ' I am aware of what this bill is trying to do. It does not regulate a person's personal happiness or love, force or lure one side or the other; it is not a bill that regulates the relationship between just two grown-ups. This bill seeks to redefine our cultural space's centuries of family beliefs. Trying not to destroy, at least to blur my ideal from a family that is still under the protection of the Constitution. For what or for whom, I ask. I don't understand it, and I understand why the crowd doesn't understand it either. We're always complaining about the problems of the baby. However, no political party or social minister considered it necessary to launch or finance a campaign that would value the fidelity, marriage, or wealth of children. Also during this same draft procedure, the chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs did not consider it a great deal to ask for a seminar in August, where the family and society were discussed, homosexuals talking about the good and wonderful thing about gay marriage. At the same time, there was no presentation at this seminar of what is at all the social meaning and function of the family and why the Constitution regards it as a basis for the survival and growth of the people and for society. There has been a great deal of hypocrisy during the procedure for this draft. Recently, more has been said about security and defence, about the hope that the people want to protect their country. Several friends of the Defence League and of the true Estonian patriots have expressed their feelings to me, which the current behaviour of our leaders, not considering the will of the people, is causing in them. This has greatly reduced their determination to make an effort and to contribute to the protection of the Estonian state. This makes our eastern neighbour less unpleasant in their eyes and sometimes even makes them wonder if they are willing to put their lives on the line for such a regime. If this is not a threat to the security of the Estonian state, what else is there? Many Estonians from other nations have also expressed their views on this draft. They also attended a Sunday gathering. Who communicates with these people? How does the adoption of this law affect integration? In these troubled times, I find it irresponsible to undermine the confidence of the Estonian people in the democratic and moral values of their country and to divide society, as advocates of the Cohabitation Act and, unfortunately, a large part of the media do. I'd like to protect a country that protects you or at least respects you, not drive over a tank. We've spoken too little and explained. Most people don't understand this bill, I don't think it's necessary. Let me remind you again that I didn't talk about happiness or sexuality between two people. That is not the question of this bill. The consequence of the adoption of this law is a disaster for both the majority and the minority. I can't imagine a society where a minority can be happy when the majority is unhappy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U262	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu speech chair Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U263	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, who have spoken here today. I really want to say thank you. Your calls were very thoughtful and emotional. I felt like I was sitting in this hall 25 years ago. Almost 25 years ago, in 1990, when the last Supreme Council sat here together, there was so much emotion and thought in the speeches of the MPs. That's what made me come in here. I come from such a time and have received such an upbringing that I understood very well what Igor said, I wanted to clap and take sides immediately, and what Jaak Allik said, who was also in this Chamber 25 years ago. There's so much about the background that I haven't been a child in October or a pioneer, but I've been a communist young and communist. In fact, this subject opens our mouths precisely because of who we are and where we come from. I find it psychologically extremely difficult and difficult to vote in favour of this law. Most of my cells cry out for it, I don't want to do it. I haven't even been able to read the law. I've been trying to read, but I just can't. At the same time, it is said that the MPs have not worked on this law. What's the vigilante's job? I think every summer we talked about this subject in company. It made me seriously think that all my children and grandchildren, and all the young people who knew each other in the company where the subject was discussed, were in favour of this law. I realized I should read the law and try to understand it, but I dare you to admit I don't understand it. That's why I asked you yesterday, if young people think so and if they're my age, are we really ready to adopt this law? But the people's representation has taken this thing so far, and that decision will have to be made tomorrow. Think, all those who have not yet made up their minds! I promise I'll think, too. But I still want to thank all those who have helped open my eyes and have influenced each other! I also want to say that there has been talk of some form of incitement to anger. I haven't really felt it. I really liked Mikhail Stalnukhin's speech. So let's just think calmly, there's still a night ahead of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U264	Thank you. I now request the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu, Olga Stranger!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U265	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear guests! Good Internet-based session followers! As the initiator of this bill, I can see that he has two sides. One party regulates how a man and woman living in a factual partnership can enjoy better protection for their relationship. We know that there are many people who live in a common-law relationship. We don't know what the reasons why they don't want to have a traditional marriage. I think with this bill we would offer them an alternative. We have not heard much criticism of this side. The only thing that has gone through is that there is doubt as to how popular this partnership contract can be. But let's not get ahead of ourselves. For example, in France, where the same law on gender-neutral cohabitation applies, couples of different sexes have used it actively. About 96% of partnership agreements are concluded between men and women in France and only 4% between persons of the same sex. It has, in fact, become a surprisingly popular way of registering a partnership, with three marriages per couple. The other side of the bill, the regulation of relations between persons of the same sex, has, of course, created a very large discussion in our society. I don't remember any draft laws giving rise to this kind of reaction in the last seven years. We see it here in the Chamber of Riigikogu and in the Committee on Legal Affairs, we see it on the columns of the newspapers. Not only Estonian newspapers write about this bill and the whole process, but also foreign newspapers. For example, Stephen Fry, a well - known writer, recently wrote in an English newspaper about this bill. It's all over the place: television, radio, kitchens. There are not many laws that have brought people to the streets. But, of course, the number of letters that have come into our mailboxes is outrageous, not to mention that social networks have formed groups both for and against this law. Since I am in favour of this law, I am, of course, very pleased that there are almost five times as many people as there are in this group who do not support it, for example, the Facebook group, which supports the adoption of the Cohabitation Act. I am very grateful to all the people who have spoken about this bill, both to those who have opposed it and to those who have been in favour. Of course, it is a great pity that those who have been against the law have often been too aggressive and have not been rational. Indeed, their messages have been filled with anger and aggression. But we forgive them, we follow Christian morality, that we forgive even your enemy. But I'm certainly not going to call these people enemies. They are not enemies, they are victims, they are victims of vicious and aggressive propaganda. I am convinced that, after a while, some of the people who are currently opposed to this bill will understand that he was wrong. For example, when a similar law was passed in Canada in 2005, 53% of the people opposed it, but now that nine years have passed, 63% are already in favour. So people are able to change. We have heard in this hall that Aivar Riisalu has been reborn, we have also heard Valdo's story about how he changed after he had lived in Sweden for some time. So I am of the opinion that the Estonian people, who are currently against the law, are also able to change over time. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U266	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U267	Now another issue that specifically concerns the processing process and what a good colleague, Liisa Pakosta, has pointed out. After all, he spoke human languages about things that have gone wrong in this law. Bad isn't even the right word. He was talking about what this law might need a little deeper thought through. I stress that I was talking about growing up because I am an example of how it is possible to move from complete denial to understanding, and at one point it is possible to move to understanding and full tolerance. Society is divided, and we actually heat this fire, pouring it all the time with our rush to gas. You can't put out a fire with gas! After all, we have adopted regulation in addition to the same-sex relationship, for which there are high expectations, including the relationship between a man and a woman, if their marriage is not registered and people live in a free life. We would have been honest if we had dealt with the same-sex issue, because this problem in a way or another does not disappear from society, and at one point every society is obliged to regulate this area. But I think it went wrong the way we've been doing these things here. The citizens are right, because we are not here for ourselves, we have been sent here by our constituents. If the voters have two opinions, the flame of these opinions to be extinguished by gasoline is the greatest folly of the Member of Parliament. Here in one of the rounds of questions and answers some time ago, I asked myself, figuratively speaking, good Jüri Ratas also had one thing in the hall and one thing from my colleague Randper. I do not remember the exact content of this question, but it was a referendum. I said I was so confused that I wanted to jump out the window and escape because I can't find a good solution. I therefore stress once again that I also want to solve the same-sex problems, because they cannot be denied. At the same time, as an ungrouped MP, I have a ticket from this party, whose members, for example, Mr Kiisler, are very clearly positioning himself in such a way that he may be at odds with my views. Now my own personal changes in life have led to a situation where, as the initiator of the bill, I have to make a decision tomorrow, but it boils around like a squeeze. I have been in the parliament of the Republic of Estonia for seven and a half years, where we have dealt with a number of laws that are far more important from the point of view of statehood in terms of economy, nationality, territory, independence and whatever its duration, but they have not created such passion. Ladies and gentlemen, do we not use force to do a disservice to the very people who really need this law? Now that they are also a little focused on society as a result of our actions, perhaps it is against them that more acute attacks will take place, and their lives will not get any easier. Don't you think we've gotten into a situation where we're throwing the baby out with the washing water? You shouldn't be doing that. Each society will eventually come to the regulation of the same-sex coexistence. Perhaps we still need to educate ourselves a little bit more, as I have done, and educate the citizenry as well. I'm sure we'll get to that law. But if we have to get to that tomorrow, I have a deep doubt about that. There's a deep crisis inside me because I started this law, I wanted this debate, but this debate broke me, and I don't know how I'm supposed to be anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U268	Thank you. Now please to the Riigikogu speech chair Rait Maruse! I'm sorry! Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U269	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, Guests on the balconies! I came to this remote control because my name is currently not the name of any political group, i.e. I am a non-attached MP who has initiated the bill of partnership among 40 members of the Riigikogu. Why did I want to talk here? Because I find that every member of the Riigikogu outside this house is primarily a normal, reasonable and nice Estonian person who has been temporarily entrusted by a group of voters to work in this house. That's what happened to me. I confess to you honestly and directly that I want to tell you about myself. In this remote control, there's a person who was once a total homophobe, couldn't stand a single homoparade, couldn't understand these people. I was very young back then. Of course, we didn't have that much at home, but there was still a chance to move around the world. At one point, when I began to think these things out, a lot of intellectuals came into my circle of friends, practicing a little different from normal man-wife relationships. I admit that's when I started to tolerate more and more of these people. I began to realize that they are like this, they want to live like this, and I have no right to do anything wrong or to say anything to them, much less to humiliate or insult them in any way. The only subject I dared to discuss when talking to these people (I don't name names, but given my background, you might think these people are very well known) was that I sincerely regret that these people's higher-than-average intellectual level does not pass on to their children. Then some of them said, "No, no, he's got a descendant from his previous life," but now he wants to live like this. The bigger my understanding got. That was why I turned out to be among the 40 people who signed this bill. What started to happen beyond my good will is like a good example of how everything goes wrong when it's a little stubborn. I can't even tell you what the right word is. First of all, all those e-mails. They've been talked about. After all, both sides took the floor and, in fact, this correspondence could be divided into two thirds and two thirds in thick lines, as I think the sociological study also shows the order of magnitude of supporters and opponents. I'd like three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U270	I'm sorry! Do you take...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U271	Please, yes, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U272	You said you'd take it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U273	Thank you, Mr. Wheels, yes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U274	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U275	Sorry, Pomerance ahead of time again! [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U276	We keep up with the times, keep up with the times. Amendment 20 has been tabled by the lead committee. Marko Pomerants, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U277	On behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, I ask for this proposal to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U278	Thank you. I shall put to the vote Amendment 20 tabled by the lead committee. Please take a stand and vote. by 38 votes to 27 members of the Riigikogu with 1 abstention. The proposal was supported. Amendment 21... We are not yet on Amendment 22. Amendment 21 has been proposed by the lead committee. Amendment 22 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 23 has been tabled by the lead committee. Good fellows, thank you. The proposed amendments to the draft 650 have been examined. The position of the commission is that the second reading should be terminated. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has received a proposal from the IRL Group to interrupt the second reading of the draft law on partnership initiated by members of the Riigikogu. The proposal has been signed by the vice-chairman of the group. Let us begin with the preparation of the vote on this proposal. I shall put to the vote the second reading of the draft proposal of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union to be interrupted. Please take a stand and vote. 33 votes to 41 with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The second reading is closed and the second item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U279	I shall put to the vote the eighth amendment tabled by the lead committee. Please take a stand and vote. by 39 votes to 25 members of the Riigikogu with 1 abstention. The proposal was supported. Amendment 9 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 10 has been tabled by a member of the Riigikogu, Valdo Randpere, and the position of the commission is that it should be taken into account in substance. Amendment 11 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 12 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 13 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 14 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 15 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 16 has been tabled by a member of the Riigikogu, Valdo Randpere, and the position of the commission is that this proposal should be taken into account in substance. Amendment 17 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 18 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 19 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 20 has been tabled by... I'm sorry! Amendment 19. Marko Pomerants, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U280	On behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, I would like to ask you to vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U281	Sorry, I'm not that fast! [[In the Laughing Hall.]] I'm not as young as you are, so please, let's take it easy! Amendment 8 has been tabled by the lead committee. Marko Pomerants, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U282	I've been thinking about the eighth.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U283	Thank you. Let's start over. Good fellows! Dear Valdo Randpere! We are on the third amendment tabled by Riigikogu member Väino Linde and the position of the commission is that it should be disregarded. We will vote on the proposal made by Väino Linde. Please take a stand and vote. 29 votes to 38 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 4 has been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs. Amendment 5 has been tabled by Mr Gräzin, member of the Riigikogu. The position of the Steering Committee is that it should be disregarded. Amendment 6 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 7 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment No... I'm sorry! Marko Pomerants, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U284	Can you specify exactly what we are voting on now? Are we voting on the Väino Linde amendment or on the Commission proposal not to take this into account?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U285	Thank you very much. Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote the third amendment tabled by the member of the Riigikogu, Mr Linde. Please take a stand and vote. I interrupt the vote. Valdo Randpere, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U286	Thank you. I would also like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U287	Thank you. Let us begin with the preparation of the vote on this proposal. Dear colleagues, I will put another amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. 30 votes to 39 with 2 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The third amendment was tabled by Riigikogu member Väino Linde. The position of the Steering Committee is that it should be disregarded. Väino Linde, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U288	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. There are 23 amendments to the draft 650. Let's start reviewing them. The first amendment is from the lead committee. A second amendment has been tabled by Riigikogu member Igor Gräzin, the commission has not taken this amendment into account. Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U289	I am asking for this motion to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U290	Let's move on to the third item. The second reading of the draft law amending the Copyright Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I ask Tiina Lokk-Tramberg, Member of the Cultural Commission of the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U291	Good President and good Riigikogu! Hello! [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] This is the second reading of bill 697. This bill deals with orphan works.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U292	Good waitress, I'm sorry! Good colleagues, we're moving on, the agenda's not exhausted. I ask for your assistance in further processing of the items on the agenda. There's too much noise in the hall. You're interrupting a waitress and people who want to follow the second reading of this very important bill. Please, good waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U293	Thank you! I am talking about the procedure between the first reading and the second reading in the Committee on Culture. The draft on orphan works was initiated by the Government of the Republic. On 20 June 2008, the first reading took place on 17 September. No amendments were tabled by the deadline for submitting amendments, 24 September, members of the Riigikogu or political groups.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U294	Good waitress, I'm sorry! Good fellows! A draft is under discussion, whose commission is the Committee on Culture. May I have your attention, please? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U295	Thank you. The Committee on Culture prepared a second reading at its meeting on 25 September, attended by Kärt Nemvalts, representative of the Ministry of Justice. The Commission decided to propose seven amendments to the draft. All these amendments were adopted by consensus. Most of them were of a technical nature and helped to clarify the text. Two of them I'm going to separate because they're substantive. In Amendment 1, the Commission proposes to introduce the internal term 'public memory institution' to improve the comprehension of the law. A public storage facility within the meaning of this Act is a public archive, museum, library, research and education institution or film or audio heritage conservation institution. In the future, the agreed term will be used for the internal list. In addition, a list of protected objects has also been harmonised in the field of technical regulation. The Commission discussed whether the circle of objects protected by regulation could not be expanded so that individual photographs could also be considered as orphan works. According to the draft, the regulation of orphan works applies only to photographs contained in publications. Article 10 of the Directive, which is a review clause, provides that the European Commission is constantly monitoring developments in the field and will report by 29 October 2015 at the latest and annually thereafter on the possibility of including other protected objects in the scope, in particular individual photographs and other images. In view of this, the Committee on Culture did not propose an amendment concerning photographs in the context of the current transposition of the Directive, but nevertheless considers it important that the possibilities of using orphan works be extended to new objects as soon as possible. Amendment 7 must be highlighted in exactly the same way. Pursuant to Article 9 (1) of the Directive, Member States are to bring into force the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with the Directive by 29 October 2014. Given the time needed to process the draft in the Riigikogu, the time required to announce the Act to the President of the Republic and the time allowed by law to publish the Act to the Official Journal of the Republic, it cannot be certain that the Act is ready for entry into force on 29 October 2014. The amendment contains a special provision for the entry into force of the Act, according to which the Act will enter into force on the day following its publication in the Official Journal of the State, while the date of entry into force of the Act must not be earlier than 29 October 2014. The wording of the draft implementing provision is also specified in order to comply with Article 8 of the Directive. Under Article 8 of the Directive and the implementing provisions of the Copyright Act, rules on the use of orphan works apply to all works and published works, audiovisual works and phonograms which are protected by copyright at or after the date of entry into force of the Act. In Estonian terms, this means that the entire period before 1991 is also covered. It's very important. The commission decided to send the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 8 October and to propose that the second reading be stopped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U296	Thank you. Good colleagues, do you have any questions? There are no questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. Seven amendments have been tabled by the Steering Committee, and we will start reviewing them. The first, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh amendments. We have examined the proposals. The position of the commission is that the second reading should be terminated. The second reading is closed and the third item is also dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U297	Let's go to the fourth item on the agenda. The first reading of the draft Act amending the Sport Act and the Administrative Cooperation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I ask the Minister of Culture, Urve Tiidus, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U298	Good afternoon, everyone. Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I want to introduce you to the draft law amending the Law on Sport and Administrative Cooperation 722. This draft provides the legal basis for the payment of remuneration allowances to coaches in sports clubs and schools. This is a planned step in the government's agenda, whose main aim is to enhance the work of trainers working with children and young people. The draft also gives coaches the assurance that their social guarantees are guaranteed. The government has agreed that the 2015 budget will provide EUR 3,51 million for the payment of the grant. It is also included in the state budget project. Support will be paid from the beginning of next year. By amending the Sport Act and the Law on Administrative Cooperation, the Minister of Culture is empowered by a regulation to lay down the basis for granting aid and the arrangements for distribution in order to enable the State to start paying remuneration to coaches from January 2015. The draft provides that the Minister of Culture may entrust the task of allocating the coach remuneration allowance to a private legal person under an administrative contract. The Ministry of Culture shall supervise the performance of this contract. The administrative agreement is planned to be concluded with the Sport Training and Information Foundation. The new mandate rule in the form of a regulation by the Minister for Culture regulates the basis for the payment of the remuneration allowance for trainers of 5th and higher levels of training for children and young people (this includes the 5th, 6th and 7th levels). Trainers' wage subsidy is personal and can be used to pay remuneration to individual persons, but it requires additional information about the trainer's load, the groups to be trained and training hours. In short, the draft provides that, in addition to developing the basis for general support for sport organisations, a regulation will also be issued for the remuneration of coaches. As already mentioned, the management agreement is planned to be concluded with the Sport Training and Information Foundation. This is a foundation set up by the Ministry of Education and Research and the Estonian Olympic Committee, which, in addition to other tasks, is an authorised processor of the Estonian Sports Register, which is part of the state information system. The Foundation has a wide-based database of sports organisations and coaches, including training levels and links with sports organisations. The Foundation has the capacity to analyse and control data and has long-term experience. It should be further specified that the target grant is 50% of the coach's salary, plus at least the same amount of you by the sports club or sports school, or employer. Children and young people whose coaches are affected by this bill are around 80,000, coaches are about 1,500 and sports clubs and schools are included in 500. This bill is expected and very necessary to promote athletic spirit and health in society. Thank you for listening and I am ready to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U299	Good colleagues, do you have any questions? It is. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U300	Thank you. Dear Minister, Of course, it is very right that the work of coaches will also be financed from the state budget, because one of the biggest problems of Estonian sport is precisely the lack of trainers, especially the lack of youth trainers. But I understand that it is intended to base the payment of remuneration on professional levels. As you have said, the basis for this would be 5 to 7 above all. the level of professional experience. This means that it is more likely that older trainers, who already have practice and experience, will receive this extra money. Young trainers who can't have categories 5, 6 or 7 yet can't access that money. Thus, the problem of youth trainers cannot be resolved very quickly. Am I getting this right?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U301	Thank you for your question, Mr. Seeder. I hope I understand your question correctly. One thing is that wage support is paid to coaches who have 5 to 7 years old. the level of professional experience. That's what we're counting on right now. Like I said, their training is about 80,000 young people. If your question concerned why coaches with lower professional qualifications are excluded from receiving wage support, I can now answer by saying that there was a choice to be made. 5.1 to 7. highly skilled trainers train a large proportion of children and young people. Yes, it is argued that very many coaches are at 3rd and 4th level and it is not right that they are excluded from receiving additional funding. But we know that qualifications are the kind of thing that can be developed further. We believe, by bringing this bill before you, that next year, probably early in the year, there will be more trainers with the fifth degree, precisely because there will be an incentive to improve their professional skills, which may not have been very clear for the last ten years.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U302	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U303	Thank you, manager. Good waitress, Minister! Of course, it's a step in the right direction, but it's not even a half step, I think it's a quarter step. First of all, there isn't enough money. I'm pretty sure of it. Secondly, it bothers me whether we have another country sport. Why is this money not given to municipalities so that the municipalities themselves decide how to use it? Will the state pay the coaches working in the municipality or what it will look like? Isn't that weird?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U304	Thank you very much, Mr. Tamm. Does this money satisfy all the expectations that coaches, sports clubs and schools have? According to current estimates, they're going to be 5 to 7. professionally qualified trainers' needs satisfied. It is true that this salary allowance must be applied for itself, either through the club or through the school, i.e. through the employer. We can't predict with quite a millimeter the amount of money. We expect to continue. True, it has been discussed, and even to me, it has been argued that perhaps the money will be left over so that we can bring this criterion below the professional level. Next year or, to be honest with you, if the honourable Riigikogu deals with this draft quickly, it should be quite a good picture of how many of these salary support applications will be coming in by the end of November or early December. Now for the country sport. It's difficult for me to comment on. In itself, I am very pleased that coaches will be supported in this way in order to raise a new generation. The wider public, the coaches and all the people involved in sport have said that this is a very necessary and good step in the right direction. But of course it won't be the last.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U305	Thank you. Please, Erki Arrow!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U306	Thank you. Dear Minister, I think this is a good step for the country. As an interim remark, the biggest public support has been maintaining the scholarship system so far. But I'm asking you about the funding system. The explanatory memorandum states that, in cooperation with local authorities, it is planned to monitor the targeted use of the public wage subsidy for coaches. In some ways, it would simplify the system and make it cheaper, but it cannot work because there are quite a few problems here. Coaches must be registered in the Sports Register. Local authorities, however, have slightly different systems. So, unfortunately, these systems do not match and certainly will not be able to coincide by the time the law enters into force.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U307	Thank you very much for your question, Mr Arrow. With regard to the sports register and the accuracy of the data, who exactly are the coaches who apply for the extra money, what the level of their profession is, in which sports clubs or schools they work, how much their burden is, we still expect the cooperation of both sports clubs and local authorities who manage sports schools to be of good will. Even if these registers are not compatible as well and quickly as we would like, given Estonia's IT capability, I believe that such a technical obstacle will not make it difficult for coaches to pay subsidies. But it is clear that technical and practical issues arise when such a new thing is implemented. I'm sure we have people to make this thing work.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U308	Thank you. And now class 470 Toomas Tõniste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U309	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I am truly pleased that the work of several years is finally coming to fruition and that the injustice that coaches did not receive support from the state disappears. Those coaches who so far didn't want to slip into scholarships are now in equal competition with others. But one thought was also that funding should be provided through sub-unions, who would then reveal for themselves how many coaches they have who meet these criteria. It would save a lot of red tape. You can always check. Is there any other idea, or has this idea long gone out?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U310	Thank you very much, Mr Tõniste. The sub-unions are our most important partners in the field of sport, and they will not be left out of this. Club information about trainers' professional levels and activities moves into sub-unions. I am currently unable to find this place in the bill, but in this process, in order for the coach's wage subsidy to reach the right people, the right trainers, who respond to the idea of this law, all parties can be good partners. That's all I can say.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U311	Now ask Põlvamaa. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U312	Thank you, manager. Madam Secretary! For one job, the calculation shall be based on EUR 700 plus taxes of which 50% shall be charged. But if the local government pays 900 euros to the coach in a sports school or club, does this 50% promise no longer apply?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U313	According to the draft law, the minimum level of coach's salary is taken into account and, if 50% of this is provided by the State, the local government will be obliged to pay at least 50% in order for it to be received from the State by 50%. But no one forbids to pay more. I assume that local authorities, which support sport with very large amounts of money, will add more than 50%. In real life, it works. If I may, I will provide statistics which may not directly answer your question but reflect what local authorities do for sport. In 2013, local government support for sport was EUR 58 million. This support has grown over the past few years, but I can't find that number with a lot of fuss. That's the situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U314	Andre Sepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U315	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress, thank you very much for having this draft law amending the Law on Sport, which is expected in sports circles, on our table today! But if the state now comes to the aid of coaches' remuneration, what effect will it have on parents whose children participate in these training groups? Will the rates of participation in the training group not rise at the rate they have so far? Certainly, prices will not decrease either, but will they remain at the level that parents are able to allow their children to participate in training groups? Is that what we've been talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U316	Thank you for your question, Mr Sepp. I can say that the coach wage subsidy will undoubtedly also be created with the idea that perhaps the part paid by the family will not grow so quickly. However, we know that when extra money comes from somewhere, they do things differently. Some clubs may reduce the participation fee, and some sports schools also see that the share of the family can be reduced. But I can't predict what the result will be right now. The point is, however, to slightly reduce the burden on families to pay for exercise. However, one link to real life is not described in the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U317	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U318	Thank you. I have a suggestion and a question. I think that three and a half million euros is actually low, given the need for the sector and the current situation. But the legal framework is prepared in such a way that, in your opinion, the money may even be left over. I have a suggestion that, if there is any, you could, in the draft law, provide for a flexible opportunity to give this remaining part to coaches with a lower level of professional qualifications. But has it been discussed in the government or the Ministry of Culture that, at least from the state budget of trainers dealing with children and young people, the basis for remuneration could be equal to or on the same basis as the basis for the remuneration of teachers? How much could this cost the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U319	Thank you for your question, Mr. Seeder. First, I'm gonna make a little correction. I have not said that money will be left over, but on the contrary, Mr Tammele, who said that money would be missing, I have heard that there is also such a position or assumption that money will be left over. According to current estimates, however, we are relatively happy with these 3.51 million. What the real situation will be, we will see very soon, towards the end of this year. With regard to equalising coaches with teachers, the status of coaches is very different. There are primary coaches and there are gym teachers who are also part-time coaches. Things are very different. In itself, this draft has not been discussed in order to bring them all to the same level as teachers. We don't have such a stamp that a person is just a trainer. Mostly, these people are teaching somewhere, maybe doing some other work, and they're just coaches because of their pre-preparation and maybe their athlete's career. But it is worth discussing in itself. I personally have no objection to this, if children receive better training, are more athletic, healthier in the future, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U320	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U321	Thank you. Madam Minister! Everyone is waiting for this law and it is very nice that this bill is in this Chamber and we will vote in favour of it. But you mentioned coaching skills a few times. Does national language skills affect the skills of coaches or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U322	Thank you for your question, Mr Korb. I have to say that I am not part of the committee that determines the professional levels of coaches. The competence requirements for coaches are set out in professional standards and generally require specialization in a particular sport. The system of professional levels is established by the European Union and our system meets the requirements of the European Union. I believe that if a person wants to be a good coach, he must be able to communicate with athletes. Each language is only useful in this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U323	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Please ask the Chair of the Riigikogu for anyone other than the Chairman of the Committee on Culture, Lauri Luige!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U324	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Culture discussed the draft law amending the Sport Act and the Administrative Cooperation Act at two sessions: 22 and 25 September. Urve Tiidus, Minister of Culture, Tõnu Seil, Deputy Chancellor of Sport of the Ministry of Culture, and Lia Lin, Legal Adviser to the Legal and Property Management Department, were invited. The Minister presented the content of the draft at the Commission. With the bill, as you know, we are creating a legal basis for paying coaches' salaries. For this purpose, sports organisations will be able to apply for support from the state budget in the future. By amending the law, we give the Minister of Culture the power to establish the bases and procedures for the award of the grant, and under the management contract, the right to administer the grant money is the right to be administered by a private legal person, the Sport Training and Information Foundation, who is in turn supervised by the Ministry of Culture. A number of questions arose during the Commission's debate. For example, what if one child takes two classes? The answer was that if this child goes to swimming practice and basketball practice, for example, is in different sports clubs that deal with different areas, then everything is fine. If these are exercises in the same area, for example, a young person goes to two basketball classes, then this usually happens in the so-called mastery group, where young people train their skills in addition to practice. In the case of the mastery group, each case shall be considered on a case-by-case basis. However, if there are trainings in the same area, but this is not a group of mastery, or young people simply go to two basketball classes, then you need to look at it on a case-by-case basis and find out what this club is like, whose students this young person is supposed to be. Another question was asked as to why additional support for coaches' remuneration is expected from the fifth level. The answer is simple: there are financial reasons for this. As we know, the draft state budget for next year's draft law has planned for coaches EUR 3,51 million. If we had more money, we could lower that limit. My personal wish would be that we could also include 4-level coaches, but unfortunately we must look at the real situation and accept the choices we now have. In addition, the aim is to motivate trainers with lower professional qualifications to apply for a higher level. In addition, it was examined whether, apart from the regulation, the law could include a more detailed description of the qualitative rule. The draft regulation, which is available to you, is still being improved and will be specified by 10 October. The government has proposed that these standards be reproduced in a regulation, but we in the Commission are discussing whether to include any specific points in the law so that there is greater certainty at the level of the law. The connection of the database to the population register, to which my colleague Erki Nool referred in the meantime, was examined as to how interconnected the datasets are. Indeed, the systems are separate, but they're starting to work together. The applicant must enter the student's name and personal identification code. Currently there is no personal identification number-based record in the sports register; there is only the number of children. It was also studied that if one coach has two children to train, for example, while the other one has 50, how will the remuneration be calculated? It is important to understand that sports are different, we cannot compare, for example, wrestling and basketball, because there are inevitably more students in basketball. However, a separate table has been created for this to show the workload of coaches. It also lists the minimum number of students in the group. That depends on your specialty. It was further examined whether EUR 3.5 million would be sufficient to cover the existing holes or whether it would allow for a certain wage increase. In response, it was said that wage support and strengthening social guarantees would create the possibility that training fees would not increase for at least some time. The aim is to keep the situation as stable as possible. In view of these resources, there is usually no possibility of an increase in wages. There may be extra money for clubs in some cases, but I'm afraid that's not enough for a significant raise. It was also examined whether the law should regulate whether the Sport Training and Information Foundation is entitled to carry out random checks in order to avoid fraud. In response, it was said that there is no need for additional regulation in the law, and the foundation has the power to supervise itself. Finally, it examined the entry into force. The intention is to enforce the law as soon as possible so that subsidies can start to be paid out from the beginning of next year. Applications must be accepted and examined at the beginning of November this year. By January, it would be clear who will qualify and who will not. The Commission's discussion made it clear that, if possible, there could also be the involvement of 4-level trainers, should there be additional opportunities for this to happen for some reason. If we see that the number of applications does not cover EUR 3,51 million and there is something left, then it could be used to some extent to pay part of the remuneration of the 4th level trainers. The Commission unanimously decided that the draft had to be put on the plenary agenda by 8 October. It was also decided, by consensus, to appoint a speaker to act as rapporteur and to propose that the first reading be stopped. It was also decided to propose a deadline of 15 October for the submission of amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U325	Thank you. You have at least one question. Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U326	Thank you. It is a good law in this respect that it does not take anything away from anyone, so it must be supported. But this subject has been on the table for a very long time. The sports and exercise support group has discussed this with several interest groups. The sub-unions have very different levels of professional level committees. I believe that, in recent times, a relatively large amount of red tape has been created in order to set specific levels of professionalism. How much of this problem has been raised? You mentioned that if the money was left over for some reason, it could also be paid to level 4. What could be these'case if' categories?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U327	Thank you. I'll start with the other side of the question. This 'if' means that if the total amount of applications is less than EUR 3,51 million, i.e. some sports organisations that are expected to qualify, for some reason do not qualify, whether for professional levels or for the number of students in the group or whatever the reason is, and the funds should be left over, I believe that these funds could also be used to support 4 level trainers instead of raising the money to the next year and using the funds in the next 5 to 7 years. supporting professional excellence. It's my personal opinion, but I don't know if it's gonna happen. The Ministry's current forecasts say that this amount would rather not cover all applications. These figures, which you have read in a number of documents, are based on an analysis carried out in February this year, but it is now October and, in the meantime, there have also been 5-level coaches. This figure is greater than 1178, which was mentioned at the beginning. But this will be clear once the applications have been submitted. With regard to the differences between the areas, I was in contact with Toomas Tõnis, the vice-president of the EOC and on the board of the Sport Training and Information Foundation yesterday. I was merely looking into the interest of how bureaucratic this process is if there is a desire to apply for the next level of profession. We didn't get through all the areas. When you say that there are problems, it must certainly be looked at, but I have been assured that there is nothing out of hand when applying for a new level of professional activity. There are requirements that need to be met, of course, to be trained and tested, but something that is insurmountable, I don't think there is.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U328	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U329	Thank you. Good colleague! Did I get it right that, as of 1 January 2015, the scholarship system will disappear at all and there will be no future?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U330	Thank you. The general trend, which has been on the agenda for about a year, is that salary, or salary, may not be paid as a scholarship. It has never been allowed, but this problem has just been raised in the last year. The IRS has actively started to control those who pay a scholarship instead of salary and have already made decisions on it. Indeed, from a perspective, we should be interested, and it is also that everyone is treated equally. We have clubs that pay coaches on the basis of a contract of employment, paying all taxes on it and guaranteeing the social security of the coaches. We also have clubs that don't. In this respect, those who do not, and those who do, are in an unequal position. This should all be done on a uniform basis. Of course, if someone gets paid, then taxes must be paid on it, perhaps in terms of time, yes, it should be the case that the scholarship cannot be paid in terms of salary or salary. This cannot be tolerated in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U331	Thomas Tõniste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U332	Thank you, good manager. Waitress! In general, most sports federations have the problem that young coaches do not come on board, the trainers have a drought. The bill doesn't really help them. Yes, there is a solution in the perspective, a new degree must be applied for, with its own procedures, but a young university graduate has received a level 1 or 2. What assurance does he have that if he passes that gauntlet, he's gonna get some extra money? In the future, perhaps there will be more instructors with the 5th level, or they will be downgraded to the 4th level, but then the law will be amended in the opposite direction and they will say that there will be no money and there will be no need for these coaches, and we will be back to square one again.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U333	Thank you. Well, there's always that danger. But it's all in the hands of the people in this room. Quite a lot depends on the state of the economy in Estonia and the world. If we have now taken such a course that we basically support Estonian sport, I see no reason why we should change this trend in the coming years. The question is, indeed, when something catastrophic happens and we have to make adjustments. History shows that such things have happened, and it cannot be ruled out that they can happen in the future. But I, today, sincerely believe that we all want Estonian sport to have extra money in the next year and in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U334	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. I would like to ask Erki Noole, representative of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U335	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, Well, it's not like there's a lot of things in this law that we wanted the best, but it turns out the way he comes. That's a good thing to say. I think the idea itself is good. The biggest child of pain is what is, in my personal opinion, the biggest problem in all of Estonia's sport and what this bill does not solve. It's a young coach's visit. We are saying that the bill motivates people to raise their professional level. We know that a young coach who's graduating from college gets level one, which is strange and strange in itself. By taking coffee breaks at the end of the week and paying 40 euros, you will receive a more valuable education than three years of university and two years of master's degree. But that's the way it is. After the university is completed, level 1 is obtained and can be increased by one level per year. If we're talking about level five today, it's gonna take a while to get it. What else is the problem, in my opinion? There will certainly be a lot of bureaucracy for sports clubs or schools. My colleague, Lauri Luik, said that data, personal identification numbers, should simply be included in the sports register. We still have records. We have PAI and EHIS, sports clubs must enter data at the Tax and Customs Board. Unfortunately, different registers require data to be provided at different times. Unfortunately, so far, despite the fact that we are setting ourselves up by presenting ourselves as an IT state, most of the registers between each other or, rather, no register matches the other. It's all handmade. The employees of sports clubs and schools have to work hard. That's my personal assessment, negative assessment. At the same time, we would be able to connect all the registers in the near future. If data has already been entered into the sports database of one local authority, they could automatically go to the sports register and vice versa. I'm sure it's very urgent with this law. Payments start in January. There's a danger that it's gonna get really bad. It's the first reading. I think we should include in the law a provision that the clubs that are cheating here are very easy to figure out how to cheat the country, and it will not be possible to apply for money in the next few years. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U336	Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U337	It would help to avoid cheating in the bud. Otherwise, we will simply duplicate the local authorities' control apparatus and pay out this 3.5 million euros will be even more costly. I think the money will be left over this year, because the gross wage must be at least EUR 700 for the conclusion of the contract. Certainly many coaches do not receive a gross salary of EUR 700; today most of them are on scholarship. As a result, such a surplus of money arises. I will conclude by saying that I think this direction is positive, but in my personal opinion, the problem of the entry into the labour market of young trainers, the graduates of the university, should still be resolved. I am sorry to say for experienced coaches, but a very large part of them already have social guarantees. Finally, I will tell Andre Sepa that I must grieve her. His two children attend Erki Arrow School of Athletics and this law will in no way reduce the tuition fees of his children for the following year. But the strength for all of us, so that I don't have to say the same sentence from this remote control the next year! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U338	Thank you. I ask Tatjana Jaanson, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group, to speak at the Riigikogu Chair! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U339	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. In the 2012 audit, the National Audit Office found that state support for top sport is not always transparent or legitimate, the financing system is unreasonable and the national objectives of top sport support are not clear. Estonian athletes have been successful, but the Estonian sports system as a whole still has considerable room for improvement. The most acute problem was the pay and recognition of coaches. Many coaches operate without an employment contract. The lack of value for coachwork, however, causes coaches to leave Estonia. About 10% of coaches registered in the sports register no longer operate in Estonia. The programme of action of the Government of the Republic for the years 2014 to 2015 has confirmed the valorisation of the work of trainers working with children and young people and the transition from scholarships to the system of remuneration. This removes the bottlenecks in the audit of the National Audit Office in financing the sports system, guarantees social guarantees for coaches and values the coach's profession more. The purpose of the draft law amending the Sport Act and the Administrative Cooperation Act pending in the Riigikogu today is to create a legal basis for the trainers to pay their salaries and implement the necessary support system. For this purpose, sports organisations will in future be able to apply for support from the state budget. Insufficient physical training for children is a problem for society as a whole. We often hear that young men entering the armed forces are physically underdeveloped. Young people do not just have to develop socially; physical development is also very important for the development of a child. Young people with good physical training can not only have general physical training but also have determination to achieve their goals. They are decision-makers, more persistent and more persistent. They have the ability to control their abilities and feelings. The aim of child sport is precisely to acquire sports training skills. The sports skills that you learn in your childhood are not forgotten at your old age either. It is also possible to acquire sports habits, but then you have to invest more time and energy in your workouts. Fred Kudu, who was an Estonian athlete, coach, teacher, organizer and sports character, founder of the Faculty of Physical Culture of the University of Tartu and the sports base of Kääriku, has said that the coach is primarily a teacher, the teacher with the greatest influence. Coach work is also creative work. Coach's work reflects the ability to find new ways of influencing young athletes, as well as ways to teach and raise young people, to analyse what is happening on the basis of a knowledge of the student's mental state and to overcome the difficulties that arise with the student. Having worked as a coach myself, I know that all the skills acquired during childhood and youth that last for a person's entire life course. The Social Democrats support this bill. It is very commendable that coaches receive an up-to-date pay system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U340	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The Commission's proposal is that the first reading of draft 722 should be completed. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at 5.15 p.m. on 15 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U341	Our fifth item on the agenda today is the first reading of the Act amending the Act and the Act amending the Act of the National Opera, initiated by the Government of the Republic. To present the speech chair, Urve Tiidus, Minister of Culture!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U342	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I'd like to introduce you to the Act amending the Act and the Act amending the Act on National Opera 709. The aim of the draft is to bring the rules for the conclusion of employment contracts with creative workers into line with the European Union Directive. We are talking about the principles set out in Directive 1999/70/EC, specifically in Clause 5. To this end, changes must be made to two laws: the Act on a performing institution and the Act on the National Opera, in particular as regards the conclusion of employment contracts with employees. Estonian national law has so far lacked measures to prevent exaggeration or abuse of successive fixed-term contracts. The subject of fixed-term contracts in Estonia concerns the creative workers covered by the Act of the Performance Institution, but also the academic staff whose activities are governed by the University Act and the Law of the University of Applied Sciences, which is not the subject of this draft. Now I'm talking about the substance of the bill. The European Union directive takes into account that contracts of indefinite duration are a general form of employment between employers and workers, namely contracts of indefinite duration. However, this does not preclude fixed-term contracts where they meet the needs of both employers and workers and take into account the specific characteristics of a particular country, economic sector or season. According to the legislative amendment, a creative worker who has been employed in the theatre for more than ten years, for example, will be required to conclude an open-ended contract. A fixed-term contract may be concluded with a creative worker for a maximum period of five years if justified by the specific nature of his creative work. By the way, the current law only provides for the possibility of concluding a fixed-term contract of employment for a maximum period of five years. The draft removes the exception under which the employment relationship does not become permanent in the event of the successive conclusion or renewal of fixed-term employment contracts with a creative worker. Simply put, the theatre is given the right to enter into up to five fixed-term contracts with a new creative worker. The total length of contracts concluded with one person shall not exceed 10 years (i mean fixed-term contracts). A derogation shall be granted to the creative director of the performing institution, with whom, in the event of successive contracts of employment or renewal of the contract, the employment relationship does not become permanent. The draft provides for a legislative waiver of the establishment plan for the creative staff of the performing agency. Under current law, these posts are provided for by a decree of the Minister of Culture. From now on, it will be up to each of the performance agencies to determine such posts. I specifically stress that, in general, the draft does not change the possibility of concluding a fixed-term contract for creative workers. The draft will affect the creative employees of the national opera, state performing institutions, municipal establishments and performance institutions established by the state or established with the participation of the state in Estonia. The establishments affected by this bill are 19 in Estonia and employ nearly 1000 creative workers. This is a necessary and well prepared draft. I ask you to support this, honourable Members of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U343	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Paul-Eerik Rummo, Member of the Cultural Committee of the Chair, for a co-report!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U344	President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! We have been busy here for two days in regulating certain civil relations, civil partnerships, or partnerships. However, there are other very important civil relations, such as employment relations, which also affect the functioning of very many people and very many collectives. This draft is one of those that deals with this issue. His aim is to better regulate the relations between the performing institution and its creative employees. The Minister for Culture gave a comprehensive substantive overview today, as he did in the Committee on Culture on 22 September. Ms Hillar Sein, Minister for Theatre, and Mr Merle Põld, Legal Adviser, took part in the committee meeting with her. There were no important issues in the debate. As we have already heard from the Minister, who is a creative worker will in future determine who is the creative director and theatre manager, based on the content of the work, whether the particular work is creative or not. This means that the norm list of creative workers will no longer be established by the Regulation. There was also the question of the position of the creative director of the theatre, how this applies to him to the regulation of recruitment and dismissal and the conclusion of contracts and their duration. That's a clear answer. There was a clarification or a need for confirmation of which performance agencies would still be subject to the regulation introduced by this draft. The answer was clear: it does not apply to private and small theatres, which maintain a slightly different relationship between the institution and its creative staff. The reason for this is, in particular, that it is mostly impossible to distinguish between creative and non-creative workers in small and private theatres, since the compositions are small and the same people are both actors and technical staff or perform administrative tasks in one way or another. The Commission made the following consensual decisions: to propose that this draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 8 October, to appoint a rapporteur in front of you, to propose that the first reading be stopped, and if so, we propose to set the deadline for the submission of the amendments at the 22nd skp at 5.15 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U345	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Paul-Eerik Rummo! Is there a desire to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. The Commission's proposal is that the first reading of draft 709 should be completed. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at 5.15 p.m. on 22 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U346	The next item is the first reading of the draft Act 711 on the ratification of the Kuala Lumpuri Supplementary Protocol on Liability and Damage Compensation to the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Minister for the Environment of the Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U347	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Dear Members, There's a long, complicated bill in front of you. The Cartagena Protocol is an international agreement whose task is to ensure that genetically modified organisms do not endanger man or nature. This protocol concerns the use, handling and transport of GMOs, including cross-border transport. The Protocol was adopted already in 2000 and entered into force in 2003. The Estonian Parliament ratified it in 2004. Four years ago, in 2010, Cartagena added an additional protocol to the Nagoya Protocol, Kuala Lumpur, which says how to behave when the cross-border movement of GMOs has caused harm to someone. For the countries of the European Union, 'cross-border' in this context still means a border between the European Union and third countries. Movement means both intentional and illegal cross-border transport, as well as accidental crossings. For example, if the question is, how could this accidental occurrence occur, then the dust grains of a genetically modified plant spread to the territory of a neighbouring country from the territory of one country. If, as a result, the natural population of a competing species is reduced or even destroyed, it is understandable that there will be significant damage to the diversity of local nature and to the environment. The additional protocol we are talking about today places an obligation on countries to adopt laws which require the GMO user to compensate for the damage suffered. Of course, it can be said that environmental damage liability is already clearly regulated in the European Union. We do not need to amend or substantially supplement our laws because of the ratification of the Protocol. However, it is important to us that precise rules on the use of GMOs are in place not only in the European Union, but all over the world, and that the risks of harming human health and nature are grounded. Good Parliament, this is a very necessary and sensible draft. I ask you to support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U348	Thank you very much. Any questions for the Minister? There are no questions, it's clear. I would like to ask for a co-presentation by Rainer Vakra, Chairman of the Committee on the Environment of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U349	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! As a Commission rapporteur, I have the honour to present briefly what took place in the Commission during the debate on draft law 711. The draft was presented and the questions asked by the members of the committee were answered by Liina Eek, chief specialist at the Nature Conservation Department of the Ministry of the Environment, Kristel Järve, and advisor at the Environmental Management Department. The main issues raised by the members of the Commission on the draft were as follows: If third countries do not comply with international practice, what will happen to these countries? The short answer was that no one can oblige them because the Protocol falls under the Convention on Biological Diversity, which is not legally binding on the States. It's good practice to be part of it, but you can't force anyone to do it. This protocol is part of UNEP. It also asked whether it was possible to know what was happening in third countries, whether they were moving with Europe or whether there were countries that decided that they would not go along with it. The answer was that, in general, all countries go along with it. One of the few developing countries that has explicitly said that it will not be included in this protocol at all may be Iraq, but even the Republic of South Africa and Brazil, which are very in favour of biotechnology, support this protocol. Next, it was discussed that, if all countries support it, the requirements of the Additional Protocol are not too lenient and should instead be reviewed. It was common ground in the Commission that, yes, the requirements for the European Union are so lenient that nothing will change there, there are already dozens of times stricter rules in the European Union. At the same time, it is a 'international minimum' option, coordinated with all countries. In many countries, however, the Additional Protocol does indeed have a goal to pursue in the future. The Commission has once again pointed out that more and more talk is being made about living modified organisms, but how many countries can still control this area and whether they want to do so. The answer was that modern biotechnological measures still make it quite traceable, because DNA tests can be carried out. All things that are on the market have their own code and can see what it is and where it comes from. There was also a vital question that when a farmer puts a bag of genetically modified potatoes down and begins to realize the second generation of potatoes, whether it can be identified by genetic analysis. The answer was yes, it can be done and these potatoes cannot be sold without marking. The Committee on the Environment supported this draft consensually and asks the Riigikogu to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U350	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? No questions have been received. Rainer Vakra, you're free. Any requests? No calls, no negotiations. The Commission's proposal is that the first reading of draft 711 should be completed. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at 5.15 p.m. on 22 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U351	Today's seventh item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Rescue Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. For a presentation, please, Minister of the Interior of the Chair Hanno Pevkur!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U352	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good ones! The draft itself is quite short, but nevertheless it is a very good draft. The aim of the draft is to ensure greater safety for the population by reacting more quickly to the threat or in case of doubt. In short, the PSAP will be given the opportunity to send assistance on its own initiative. The current legal regime provides that it is as if we should wait for a call to be able to react before it does. Because of this new opportunity, the time to arrive will, of course, be shortened. The PSAP will be able to determine the location of the person in the future. But now I'm going to be more specific. First, the PSAP will be granted the right to use a real-time surveillance equipment providing a picture in a public place to identify the threat. Currently, police control centers have guarded the order with cameras installed in the public space. Technically, this is an additional tool which allows for the detection of irregularities even if no alert is received by the emergency telephone. As we know, the processing of emergency messages will be transferred to the Alert Centre from the end of this year. In fact, it makes sense that if this goes to the PSAP, the PSAP will also be able to use a picture of the security equipment. Secondly, the PSAP is given the right to identify the caller's location. The location of the 112 caller allows the Alarm Centre to locate the event faster and more accurately and to send help more quickly to the scene. We have developed a GIS-112 project, in cooperation with the Swiss State, which will make it possible in future to clarify the location of the person by positioning more quickly and send the rescue, ambulance or police car to the scene by the shortest route. Digital map is a system for collecting, managing and processing spatial data. It reflects the location and status of the auxiliary resources, the exit plan and other data that the card user decides to display on the map. Identifying the caller's location is the first step in using a digital map. The Alarm Centre must also be given the right to process caller location data in order to ensure full implementation of Article 26 of the Universal Service Directive in Estonian law. This Directive has been transposed into Estonian national law by the Electronic Communications Act, according to which a communications undertaking must make available free of charge to the Alert Centre information about the location of the caller following the connection of a call directly to 112. Thirdly, I would like to point out that the Road Administration will be given the right to receive data from the Emergency Alerts Data System. This will make it easier for the Road Administration to fulfil its obligation to draw up an accident report. In order to be able to move data smoothly and quickly from one database to another, this right must be granted to the Road Administration. These are the main changes to the draft. We certainly support the completion of the first reading of the draft and the enforcement of this law as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U353	Any questions for the Home Secretary? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Hanno Pevkur. I would like to ask Kalle Laaneti, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U354	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers. The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed this draft law on 22 September, Monday. Commission members Marko Pomerants, Igor Gräzin, Jüri Morozov, Kalle Jents, Kalle Laanet, Mikhail Korb, Peeter Võsa and Valdo Randpere and advisers Linnar Liivamägi and Raini Laide took part in the meeting. There was no Commissioner Ken-Marti Vaher. Hanno Pevkur, Minister of the Interior, Madis Timpson, Legal Adviser to the Rescue and Crisis Management Policy Department of the Ministry of the Interior, Marion Ross, Head of the same department Priit Laanis and Deputy Head of Information Monitoring Department Andrus Kroon. Martin Lambing, adviser to the Rescue and Crisis Management Policy Department of the Ministry of the Interior, was also present and took part in the second item on the agenda. The Minister gave an adequate overview of the objectives of the draft law. The Commission asked whether the Emergency Response Centre officer was entitled to react if he saw a dangerous situation or whether he had an obligation to react. This was answered by a ministry official and minister so that the official could and should retain the right of discretion. It is not reasonable to apply such an obligation unambiguously in all cases. The Commission was also interested in losing 110. We were told that the number 110 would continue to apply for the following year until the number no longer calls were made. They also asked if mypo and civilians could monitor people with cameras. It was explained to us that mupol has the right to do so for law enforcement purposes. What were the decisions? It was decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 8 October (consensus decision), to propose that the first reading be closed (consensus decision), to appoint Kalle Laane as rapporteur (consensus decision) and to propose that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 16 a.m. on 22 October (also a consensual decision). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U355	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thank you, Kalle Laanet. Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. The Commission's proposal is that the first reading of draft 676 should be completed. First reading is complete. I set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at 16 o'clock on 22 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U356	Today's last item is the first reading of the draft law amending the flag law and ship registers law, land register law and matrimonial property register law initiated by the Government of the Republic. To present the speech chair, Mr Andres Anvelt, Minister of Justice!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U357	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic has communicated to the Riigikogu the draft law amending the flag law and ship registers law, land register law and matrimonial property register law. The Craft Book Information System has not been substantially improved since its creation in 2005. Users estimate that the information system is not convenient to use, there are no interfaces with other national information systems. Thus, the purpose of the draft is to create more technical prerequisites for keeping the ship's storage book on the platform of the land register information system and to update the provisions of the Land Register Act and the matrimonial property register law, which have remained from the time of the non-electronic, or paper register, and which have no content in today's context. The draft contains four major amendments. First, the marking of entries on a maritime certificate or inland waterway certificate. The current regulation does not require the immediate indication of entries on a seagoing certificate or inland navigation certificate which load a part of the ship. The draft amends the procedure for the indication of entries so that all entries must be indicated on those certificates without delay. The aim of the amendment is to make the maritime certificate and inland navigation certificate more comprehensive. Secondly, changes to the procedure for establishing the registration number of the vessel. The procedure for establishing the registration numbers of vessels is too complicated under the current regulation. This number consists of a combination of letters and numbers, which are composed on the basis of specific data (e.g. area of the court, year and month of registration, category). The parameters and data on which the registration number of the vessel is based are not convenient for the user. With the introduction of the new information system, the registration numbers of the vessel will be set up on the basis of the current numbering, as is the case with the registration numbers of the land register. Previous vessel registration numbers shall remain valid and shall not be changed. Thirdly, the transfer of notes to the ship's blocked book in the sections of the register. Data on the right to bear a flag shall no longer be entered in the first section of the part of the register, but as a note to the third section. The purpose of the amendment is also to harmonise the principles of keeping the Craft Book and the Land Register, according to which the notes are entered in the third section of the section of the register. In the future, all entries will also be transferred from the second section of the part of the register, including restrictions on the ownership of ships and restrictions on the persons concerned, to the third section of the register of ships, as is the case with the land register regulation. The fourth amendment relates to the transfer of the ship's blocked book from the court registry departments to the real estate department of the Tartu County Court. The transfer shall be carried out by automated means. The registration numbers of the vessel issued before 3 February 2015 shall remain valid as they stand up to now. From 3 February 2015, the registry parts opened in the Cocket Book shall be assigned the registration number of the vessel with the current numbering, inter alia, taking into account the number of registration parts previously opened in the numbering. The detention department shall be required to carry out checks, i.e. all parts of the ship's storage book shall be checked without delay in order to avoid possible errors in the transfer of data. The Act is scheduled to enter into force on 3 February 2015, as the amendment to the Law amending the Courts Act and related other laws will enter into force on the date of entry into force of the amendment to the Act 570, according to which Tartu County Court's Real Estate Department will be to hold the ship's blocked book instead of the Registry Department of the Court. A new information system for the Craft Book will also be completed by 3 February 2015. Please support the completion of the first reading of this bill! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U358	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Andres Anvelt. The right to come to the platform for a co-report is given by Marko Pomerants, Vice-President of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U359	Ladies and gentlemen Laine Randjärv, Tatjana Jaanson and Valeri Korb, thank you for your sympathy. I must say that the Committee on Legal Affairs has discussed the draft that Minister Anvelt brought before us. Despite this ugly title, which includes at least the amendment of four laws, we are accepting that this is not some ugly cluster law, but the relevant provisions in a single collection, at least mostly. The Minister gave us an exhaustive overview of this detailed draft. Although Estonia is a maritime state, as a result of the Commission's debate, I have to say that we do not have too many of these ships, around 300 in the register. There was also a question of how a thing like a ship that moves freely between Tallinn-Helsing, for example, can be a thing of obsession. But since it is still valuable property, it has been regarded for a long time as something that can be called an immovable property. It is nice to note that the consensus in the Committee on Legal Affairs has been restored. For how long, I don't know, but that's what happened with the law. In any case, the Commission's proposal is that the first reading should be closed today and the deadline for the submission of amendments would be, or will be, 22 October at 2 p.m.... It's been a long night, and it's getting out of hand, and I'll say it again at 4:00. Any suggestions for improvement, bring Linnar Livamägi to the window table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U360	Any questions for the waitress? It's all clear. Marko Pomerants, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U361	Could turn off the lights.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-08_U362	Any requests? No calls, no negotiations. The Commission's proposal is that the first reading of draft 708 should be completed. First reading is complete. I shall set the deadline for the submission of draft 708 amendments at 16 a.m. on 22 October. Today's agenda is exhausted. I would like to thank everyone who was in the Chamber until the end of the sitting. It's been a pleasure being here with you! Have a good night. Closure of the sitting at 19.39 p.m.
