ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the extraordinary session of the Riigikogu, which I have convened in accordance with § 68 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and § 51 (1) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, on the proposal of 23 members of the Riigikogu at the time and agenda requested by them. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. The representative of the Government of the Republic, Mrs. Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U2	Mr. Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is today launching two draft laws: firstly, a draft law amending the Copyright Act, and secondly, a draft law amending the Law on Courts. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by the Minister of Justice Andres Anvelt when dealing with these two draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U3	Thank you very much. Are there any more requests to hand over drafts or inquiries? No more wishes. Honourable Riigikogu! At an emergency session, the Riigikogu has a quorum when more than half of the Riigikogu's membership is present. Therefore, we must first carry out a verification of our presence. Requesting presence check! 75 members and 26 members of the Riigikogu are absent. In accordance with § 52 of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, we need to set a timetable for the work of the extraordinary session by a majority vote in favour. I propose that we work without a break until the agenda is exhausted. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the timetable for the work of the extraordinary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a position... Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U4	Thank you. I'd like to be more specific. In the tables we have one agenda on yellow paper, but in the Riigikogu information system there was a second agenda with third readings at the beginning. Can we rely on what's on the tables, i.e. yellow papers?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U5	Thank you. Let's take it from what's on your desk. Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote on the working time schedule... Margus Tsahkna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. You said we were working today without a break. Will the political groups still have the opportunity to make use of the breaks provided for in the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U7	The political groups shall have the opportunity to make use of the breaks provided for in the Rules of Procedure. Honourable Riigikogu, I will put to the vote the timetable for the work of the extraordinary session. Please take a stand and vote. Results of the vote There are 68 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the timetable, there is no one against, there are two abstentions. We're on schedule.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U8	Let's move on to the agenda. First of all, we will continue to read the second reading of the draft law amending the Road Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Yesterday, the debate on the item was closed by speeches, and Annely Akkermann will be on the table. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U9	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. It's a great pleasure to see you here early in the morning. Then let's start with the law of tea. I regret that, despite the public's expectation that the roads in Estonia will be better, better built and more efficient cared for, the Government of the Republic wishes to abandon the existing principles agreed with local governments and the decision to direct the money from fuel excise to road maintenance by means of draft Road Act 681. Moreover, the draft law amending the Road Act submitted by the Government of the Republic contradicts both Andre Sepa's report "Organisation of Local Roads Storage" and the audit of the National Audit Office from November 2013. With my questions about the draft, I drew the rapporteur's attention twice to the recommendations made in both the audit of the National Audit Office and the report prepared by Andre Sepa. The rapporteur did not acknowledge that the draft was in conflict with the two documents referred to above. As a member of the National Budget Control Committee, I therefore consider it necessary to give members of the Riigikogu a reminder of the main recommendations of the aforementioned documents. Renovation of roads is a costly business worldwide. In Estonia, about 1.5 billion euros have been invested in roads since the restoration of independence. In the case of such an amount, it is important that once renovated roads no longer require much additional work, at least within the prescribed time period, i.e. 15 years. But only adequate and efficient maintenance can ensure that roads remain of the required quality. Both objectives, however, indicate the need to draw up long-term road plans for the maintenance of both public roads and municipal roads. Long-term maintenance and maintenance of roads requires financial planning for the same duration. Money for this needs to be planned through taxes received by the state and local authorities. I think that no one can argue that if the construction and maintenance of roads are to be planned for 15 years, then the costs and benefits for both the state and the municipalities must be set aside for the same period. Road construction and maintenance plans cannot have any beneficial flexibility; there can only be a short-term need to withdraw from agreed principles. The losers are all Estonian people, users of roads. The National Audit Office finds that the money has been used for road maintenance much less than the current law provides for. In this sense, the aim of the draft under discussion today is to create a legal framework for the illegal activities of the government so far, to give us the right not to flexibly finance the construction and maintenance of roads, and to use excise duty to meet the more popular objectives. According to the law currently in force, the state forecasts the receipt of excise duties on fuel each year, and according to the law, about 70% of this amount has to be spent on road maintenance. In fact, the State spends less than 50% of the tax money it collects for this purpose, the difference being first and foremost covered by the European Union contribution. However, according to the National Audit Office, this is contrary to the principle of additionality of support, which means that grants can only be used if the state itself is unable to find money for projects. Thus, this gap has been financed in other areas, which, unlike road maintenance, the funding of which is legally guaranteed, could be in a difficult situation in the future if EU subsidies were to decrease. As a result of the audit, the National Audit Office recommends following the idea of the current law that 70% of the planned fuel excise duty should be directed to road maintenance, and that, in addition, European Union subsidies may be used if necessary. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U10	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U11	Let us now look at the financing of roads from a slightly different perspective. Suppose we behave like clever peasants someday, who fulfil their country's obligations to roads with European Union money, so-called German taxpayers' money. The Estonian road network is quite dense, and it is at the forefront throughout Eastern Europe. In total, there are nearly 60,000 kilometres of roads and streets in Estonia. Less than one third of them belong to the State, the remaining roads are largely managed by local authorities, which generally do not apply for EU aid for their road construction projects. Let us look at this amendment to the Road Act, at making the financing of roads more flexible with the eyes of the municipalities. On the basis of Andre Sepa's report 'Organisation of local roads', I bring some important points of view. Local authorities point out that the lack and constant modification of the state budget provision does not allow for longer plans to be drawn up to clean up roads. Here it is also appropriate to refer to the view of the National Audit Office that no matter which scheme is financed, the money is simply limited. In the report referred to above, the Ministry of Finance's assessment of the situation, and I quote: 'The Ministry of Finance considers that the municipalities should have some certainty about funding and that the amount of the budget strategy could be indexed in the long-term perspective'. A representative of the Ministry of the Interior considers that more than 10% of the road money should be allocated to local authorities. The report puts forward three proposals for financing local roads. Firstly, to increase the financing of local roads. Secondly, to reflect the money allocated to local authorities for roads in the transport development plan and the state budget strategy. Thirdly, to create a financing model for the financing of municipal roads. The "flexibility" of the Road Act under the current bill means that the volume of road maintenance support is provided for in the national budget strategy, but the money for road maintenance is set for each financial year in the state budget. And even more so, the distribution is done by the government of the Republic, of course for this one year. I believe that this draft does not take into account either the views of the National Audit Office or the report on local government roads. Moreover, the criterion of truth is practice. In the next financial year, 2015 the government plans to reduce road funding by EUR 25 million. By withdrawing both parental and road savings funds, the current coalition is demonstrating its values, word fragmentation and the exchange of long-term goals against short-term populist pre-election promises. And it is not too much trouble to hold night sessions or additional sessions to combat these government values. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U12	Honourable Riigikogu! We are currently on the agenda to continue the second reading of bill 681. Therefore, consideration must also be given to whether or not a speech is to be given. Urmas Reinsalu, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U13	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Dear Members, IRL proposes to interrupt the second reading of this bill, because we think it is a bad bill. Whatever is said about how, in future, more flexible funding for road maintenance will be given in euphemistic terms, the result is actually one. It does not matter in which political coalition the budget is put together, the removal of this rule from our law is a precedent with such a consequence that the financing of roads will decrease in the future. We need to make a fundamental choice. The choice is not how you will be funded in the next year, in the next year or in a few years. The question is whether Estonian roads in the form of investments are or are not guaranteed at a certain level and whether, by adopting this draft law, we would place tea policy in an indefinite, no-man's-land. The short-term desire to cover running costs must not outweigh the long-term investment needs in Estonia, this is a fundamental choice. The government does not have such a political mandate to push a decision in Parliament with such a long-term impact. We therefore hand over the proposal to interrupt the second reading of the draft law amending the Road Act. Another serious problem brought to the attention of road builders and municipalities is the question of legitimate expectations, legal certainty. The questioning of legal certainty in a way that the state gives the floor and the state takes the floor is a wider problem that has arisen in the political decisions of the current government. This is also one of the reasons why the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union chose the path we expressed yesterday and the day before at the Riigikogu Marathon Session. Our message to the government union is very simple: let us not wave legal certainty! The central problem for us to challenge this legal certainty is the attempt to retorically postpone parental pensions. It will not be postponed, as we all know very well. If this law is passed, it means that the parental pension will be cancelled in this form. This is a political reality. Such intentions were also revealed by your speeches. IRL defends the principle of legal certainty in Estonia and does so by its own political means. Our message is simple. On Tuesday, the Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Riigikogu will meet and we propose that a single sentence be deleted from this draft. Then we can meet the extraordinary sessions of the Riigikogu at a rapid, effective pace. Unless the Government Union does so, we will use the means at the disposal of the opposition, seriously. Our proposal is clear, unambiguous and concrete: next Tuesday, in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, this one sentence is removed from the Parental Pensions Act. Friends! The Fatherland and Res Publica Union are giving a clear message to the government union represented in this Chamber by Mr Hanson. Pass on this message to your political groups. We propose that the second reading of this bill be interrupted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U14	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U15	Manager! Ladies and gentlemen, There is a great deal of talk about the flexibility of the state budget on this draft. It is said that tea money has been misused so far, but it is not said that politicians can be honest in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. It is said that flexibility is in fact due to the fact that the country currently does not have enough money to cover its promises. It is known that a very good coalition agreement was adopted, which we also like, but the source of its cover cannot under any circumstances be tea-saving money. It is also known that next spring the Riigikogu elections will take place, and no one will forbid to take more of the state's road savings money to cover their promises in the future. We've been talking about 25 million when it's out of law, but there's still more road-saving money than over 200 million euros. And in one year, no one will notice how much money has actually been cut. I am already saying for several times that it is economically one of the dumbest drafts that has been brought to this Chamber of the Riigikogu. Firstly, in the case of a healer, every delay in time will cost our country our taxpayers, all of us, more than once. I remember very well when, in 2010, the amount of roads allocated to local authorities, which was 10%, was decoupled from the law. What followed it? Let me give you an example. These amounts were as follows: 4,9% in 2010, 4,8% in 2011 and 6,5% in 2012. After all, the real purpose of the current bill is for the government to be able to freely use the road savings money in the coming years, including for purposes which are not related to this law. This also shows that the government is trying to make the law fit for purpose, because 75% of all excise duties on fuel should be received on roads, but less than 50% is already due. In a few years' time, I think we can say that 40% of all excise duties on fuel will go down Estonian roads, and that will probably happen in two or three years. So who's gonna win this? No one's gonna win this! Those who pay fuel excise duty daily and those who break their cars on the road will not win. It does not win the country either, because the citizens of the country should be ashamed to travel on the roads where we are now going to have to travel. But these are the priorities of the state and the current government coalition. I can safely say that this draft law, if adopted as a law, is the worst and economically stupid draft of this spring session. I can't put another bill like this aside. Let me give you an example. During the Estonian kroon, there was talk about the construction of the Tartu highway and about two or three billion kroons. I think if it had been built at the time, even with the loan money, we would have won it all. Then the citizens of the country would have won, the entrepreneurs who could have done better to develop their business would have won the state financially, because this loan, which should have been paid back, would have been, I dare say, repeating less damage than the delay. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U16	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U17	I will give you an example of a study by the Road Technology Centre, which has estimated that the long-term cumulative sub-financing of state roads will amount to EUR 836 million. The cumulative underfunding of local roads and streets is broadly EUR 300 million. As a result, the road surfaces of the main Estonian roads are on average 13 years old, the road surfaces of the main roads are on average 25 years old and the road surfaces of the secondary roads and local roads are already more than 30 years old. In such circumstances, it is foolishness to come to talk about reducing the means of saving tea, and the Group of the Centre Party will not go along with this foolishness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U18	Tarmo Tamm, please! Sorry, my rude mistake! I'll finish the negotiations, there's no wish to negotiate anymore. We need to review the amendments, which have been received in total 24. The first amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, and the lead committee has rejected it. Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U19	We are asking for this amendment to be voted on and for the presence check to be carried out before it is done.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U20	Thank you. We shall vote on Amendment 1. Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U21	Thank you. I would like to take a ten-minute break before this vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U22	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U23	Kaia Iva, is it a procedural question? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U24	I have a procedural question for the President of the Riigikogu. This was the case that the Chairman of the Riigikogu and the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu probably do not share the same understanding of our working and rules of procedure. In fact, it is not possible for the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu to take a ten-minute break on behalf of the group. It would only be possible for him to take this as a chairman's break, and the President of the Riigikogu passed this mistake. But I don't think it's gonna trigger a constitutional crisis, and I guess we can still move on.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U25	The people's ambassador had the mandate of his group. Honourable Riigikogu! [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U26	Now there's a microphone. In this case, we ask for clarification in the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, because it has now been clearly stated that the chairman and vice-chairmen of the political group can take breaks, others cannot. Just for the sake of the future, we ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U27	Thank you. Honourable Riigikogu! We need to vote on Amendment 1. Before that, a member of the Riigikogu has the right to require a check-in at an extraordinary session. We're gonna do a presence check. There are 53 members of the Riigikogu and there are no 48, or 53 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present and 48 members of the Riigikogu are absent. So we can go to the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 1, tabled by the Group of the Pro Patria Union and Res Publica Union, which has been disregarded by the lead committee. Please take a stand and vote. There are 16 members of the Riigikogu in favour of this amendment, 52 members of the Riigikogu against, no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 2 has been tabled by the Group of the Patriotic Union and Res Publica Union. Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U28	We have reached a common conviction that these are proposals by the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, although the paper shows otherwise. We are asking for this amendment to be voted on and, before doing so, for a presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U29	Thank you. Honourable Riigikogu! We can go to the vote, but before that, Kaia Iva has asked for a presence check. Please, let's do the presence check! 52 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 49 members of the Riigikogu are missing. We can keep working. I shall put to the vote Amendment 2, tabled by the Group of the Patriotic Union and the Res Publica Union, which has been disregarded by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. There were 16 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the amendment and 52 members of the Riigikogu against the amendment, with no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 3 has been tabled by the Group of the Patriotic Union and Res Publica Union; the Steering Committee has failed. Amendment 4 has been tabled by the Group of the Patriotic Union and Res Publica, the lead committee has failed. Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U30	Thank you, Mr President. What's it say? Has there been any confusion in the meantime? Please let us know!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U31	I think my text and yours are the same, but thank you! Amendment 5 has been tabled by the Group of the Pro Patria Union and Res Publica Union; the Steering Committee has failed. Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U32	Thank you. Yesterday we paid attention to the fact that in the meantime the wrong text has come from somewhere in the documents and Vice-President of the Riigikogu Laine Randjärv has apologised for the mistake that our party's name has been misspelled. From now on, it was allowed to be used correctly. So we ask you to consider these proposals from the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, because there is no such group as it says in the papers.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U33	Thank you, too. I'll take your advice. The sixth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, which has been disregarded. The seventh amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, without taking into account. The eighth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, without taking into account. The ninth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union; the commission has failed. The 10th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Fatherland Union and Res Publica, sorry, the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, the lead committee has failed. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Amendment 11 has been tabled by the same group, the lead committee has failed. The 12th amendment was tabled by the same group, and the lead committee has not taken account of it. Amendment 13 has been tabled by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union; the commission has failed. Amendment 14 has been tabled by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union; the commission has not taken account of it. The 15th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union; the commission has not taken account of it. Amendment 16 has been tabled by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union; the commission has not taken account of it. Amendment 17 has been tabled by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union; the commission has failed. The 18th amendment has been tabled by the same group, the lead committee has failed. Amendment 19 has been tabled by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union; the commission has failed. The 20th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union; the Steering Committee has failed. I'm sorry, Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U34	Thank you, Mr President. On behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U35	Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 20 tabled by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, which has been disregarded by the lead committee. We can go to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. 15 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the amendment, 52 against. The amendment was not supported. The next amendment is the 21st amendment tabled by the Centre Party Group, which has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U36	I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on and for ten minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U37	Break ten minutes. We'll proceed at 10:55.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U38	Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 21 tabled by the Group of the Centre Party, which has been rejected by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. There are 16 members of the Riigikogu in favour of this amendment, 52 against, no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 22 has been tabled by the Group of the Centre Party and rejected by the Steering Committee. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U39	I ask for the vote on Amendment 22.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U40	Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 22 tabled by the Group of the Centre Party, which has been disregarded by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. There were 16 members of the Riigikogu in favour of this amendment, 52 against the Riigikogu and no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 23 is tabled by the Centre Party Group and the commission has not taken account of it. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U41	I would like to vote on Amendment 23, which leaves 10% of the excise duty on local roads.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U42	I would like to ask you not to make pep talks during the vote, ladies and gentlemen. I shall put to the vote Amendment 23 tabled by the Central Party Group, which has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Please take a stand and vote. The 23rd amendment was supported by 18 members of the Riigikogu, 50 members of the Riigikogu were opposed, with no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 24 has been tabled by the Central Party Group; the commission has not taken account of it. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U43	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U44	Thank you. I think we can go to the vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 24, tabled by the Central Party Group, which has been disregarded by the commission of directors. Please take a stand and vote. Amendment 24 was for 16 and 52 members of the Riigikogu were against, with no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. We have therefore examined the amendments. At the same time, the Group of the Pro Patria Union and Res Publica Union and the Group of the Centre Party have proposed to interrupt the second reading of the draft law amending the Road Act. We must vote on this proposal. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal by the Group of the Pro Patria Union and Res Publica Union and the Centre Party Group to interrupt the second reading of the draft 681. Please take a stand and vote. There were 16 members of the Riigikogu in favour of this proposal, 52 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The second reading of Bill 681 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U45	The next item is the first reading of Bill 679 of the Health Insurance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and Amending the Law on Health and Safety at Work. Waiter Minister Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U46	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good guests! I am pleased to present to you a draft law amending the Health Insurance Act and the Health and Safety at Work Act, the main amendments of which relate to the implementation of an electronic disability sheet. The Health Insurance Act...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U47	Excuse me, Minister. It's okay to go on.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U48	The amendments to the Health Insurance Act lay down the procedures for the issue and electronic transmission of an electronic disability sheet to the Health Insurance Fund and for the entry of an employer on an electronic disability sheet. Similar changes will also be made to the provision of the Health and Safety at Work Act, which regulates the sickness benefit paid by the employer, and the procedure for issuing an electronic disability certificate will be included in the Act. According to the draft, in 2014 the incapacity for work sheet can be issued either on paper or by electronic means. From 1 January 2015, the incapacity sheet may be issued on paper if, for technical reasons, it is not possible to transmit the data to the health insurance database via the X-Road interface. In such a case, the prescriber of the disability record shall forward the data to the health insurance database via the X-Road interface as soon as possible after the technical cause has ceased to exist. The employer shall make the necessary entries on the electronic incapacity sheet and shall only display the information necessary for making the decision to pay the benefit. The employer retains the disability page written on paper. However, it should be noted that, as from 1 January 2015, only a doctor or dentist who has been treating a person abroad will be provided with a certificate, which will be produced annually of some 400-500 pieces. It is important that the time limits for processing temporary incapacity benefit and payment of the benefit are not altered by this draft. At the same time, however, the implementation of an electronic disability page reduces the time taken to receive disability benefits from the Health Insurance Fund and reduces the cost of processing the disability page of health care providers, the Health Insurance Fund and employers, including time and postage costs. I would add that the draft was preceded by a pilot project between the Health Insurance Fund and employers from November 2012 and by November last year nearly 600 employers had already joined the project. There are now over 8,000 participants, the latest data actually say that they have reached 10,000 already. As regards the cost of the draft, the development costs will not be added to the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, as the development of the system is in the final stages. Electronic data exchange between healthcare providers and employers has already been introduced. It should be mentioned that at the end of 2012, the e-service for data transmission of disability sheets was launched as a pilot project for employers and that it is now visible that the system is working very well. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! This is a bill that, thanks to electronic processing, makes the time for obtaining disability benefit shorter for a person and reduces the costs of healthcare providers, the Estonian Health Insurance Fund and employers. I ask you to adopt this draft law amending the Health Insurance Act and the Health and Safety at Work Act as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U49	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thank you, Minister. The Commission's rapporteur is Rein Aidma. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U50	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Health Insurance Act and the Health and Safety at Work Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, was discussed in the Social Committee on 9 June. a. The Commission discussed sending the draft law to first reading. Minister Urmas Kruuse gave an overview of the draft and answered the questions. The meeting was also attended by Heli Paliste, Head of the Health Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Kristina-Valeria Tobias, Head of the Legal Department of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, and Li Pärg, Head of the Customer Service Department. The draft amends the Health Insurance Act and the Health and Safety at Work Act, with the aim of making it electronic for employers and health insurance companies to issue a disability sheet. Since the Minister's review was sufficiently comprehensive, the Commission did not raise particular questions, which is why the Commission took the following decisions: firstly, to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda by 18 June, although for certain reasons it has now reached today; secondly, to propose that the first reading be closed and that a member of the Commission, a speaker in this Chamber, be appointed rapporteur by the Commission; thirdly, to propose that the deadline for amendments be fixed at 4 July 2014 at 16 a.m. All decisions were taken by consensus within the Commission. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U51	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish to negotiate. The first reading of Bill 679 is complete. I will set the deadline of 4 July 2014 at 4 p.m. for the amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U52	The next item is the first reading of draft 658 of the Riigikogu's resolution on the establishment of a 'Constitution of the Parliamentary Problem Committee to oppose the influence of the Russian Federation's television channels' submitted by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. The rapporteur shall act on behalf of Urmas Reinsalu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U53	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! In the current practice of the Riigikogu, Parliament has had the right to set up a committee of problems and a committee of inquiry. The right to set up committees of inquiry, which should clarify a case or problem, has been used by the Riigikogu for various reasons during all formations. The VEB Foundation Committee of Inquiry has just ceased its activities. The problem committees, which, as legislators, should analyse a matter of state life, propose proposals, also highlight the issues that attract the attention of the committee in solving a problem, have only been one in the Riigikogu's practice. In 2003, the Riigikogu formed a problem committee to deal with HIV and AIDS-related problems, which also made its proposals. According to our understanding, matters of state life can also be analysed and discussed in the course of the work of the permanent Commission. Therefore, the need for a committee of problems in the Riigikogu arises from the fact that a problem is in fact the competence of several permanent committees and also executive powers, and it is so complex that it should be treated separately. The issue we have been thinking about when we set up a possible committee on problems concerns, in particular, the media space in Russian and the influence of the Russian Federation's television channels, and there are quite a few aspects of this problem. The first topic is Russian-language information in Estonian public-law media. After we gave the draft decision to the procedure, the Minister of Culture called a working group to deal with this issue. The group has also proposed its views. Parliament, for example the creation of the second channel of Estonian Television, has also discussed the positive communication and communication of the Russian-language media auditorium in Estonia through public channels. As a participant in the debate at the time, I am pleased to recall that at that time the need for Russian-speaking programmes in Parliament was clear. While ETV2 was being discussed, the Russian-speaking media was considered important. The National Broadcasting Council has also shaped its positions, and I think that the permanent committee that would deal with this topic could be the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu. The second issue, which has emerged and on which the representatives of the European national parliaments have expressed their views, is the idea of the European Union's Russian-language television channel. Of course, it is clear that, for such a possible European Union money and for a television channel set up under the auspices of the European Union, it is possible to influence it, particularly in cooperation with other Member States, at both government and legislative level. However, a debate on whether this is a rational idea and in what form it could be realised, as well as looking for potential supporters, could be the task of the problem committee. Let it be specifically emphasised that we also consider it reasonable to cooperate with the parliaments of other countries of the European Union, in particular with the legislator's representatives from Latvia and Lithuania, as such problems have also come up very seriously there. As I mentioned, one area falls within the competence of the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu; the other is about international communication, which has an impact on foreign policy communication. Communication with the European Union's policies will also develop in cooperation with the Committee on European Union Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. It is certainly also possible to promote parliamentary cooperation in the Baltics. The third round of topics concerns our Media Services Act. This relates to the so-called negative information and unconstitutional influence in the Estonian media area in the form of Russian television programmes, especially the Rossija-RTR programme. The Media Services Act makes it clear that when providing media services, hatred based on sex, racial or ethnic origin, beliefs or religion must not be encouraged in any of the programmes, nor should it underestimate the rightful conduct or call for an offence. This is, in our view, a security issue in the wider sense. These issues, which concern this type of influence, are dealt with by the Riigikogu Security Board, in other words within the remit of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Our assessment is that, since the Media Services Act provides for certain limitations of the principles which a television programmer must not violate, the material in question is passed on via cable television or otherwise. Latvia and Lithuania have implemented specific restrictions on this issue. Our task is to find out whether these restrictions have served their purpose, whether they can be established in the Estonian legal order through the Media Services Act and how it would be reasonable to cooperate with Latvia and Lithuania, given that influencing the Russian Diaspora is one of the objectives of the Russian Federation. Influence with similar intent is, of course, taking place in all three Baltic countries, which is why it is certainly reasonable for us to cooperate with the representatives of Latvia and Lithuania. We have carried out a thorough review of the decisions concerning the restriction of the Rossija-RTR programme in Latvia. The Latvian Council for Electronic Media carried out a rather in-depth analysis of what has been specifically shown in these programmes, such as how the Rossija-RTR channel justifies aggression against an independent state during the Ukrainian crisis, the promotion of war and the incitement of inter-ethnic hatred. We have referred to this in the draft explanatory memorandum. We have not carried out a separate analysis, an immediate media monitoring, of whether the Rossija-RTR programme has done this, but we have relied on the Latvian Electronic Media Council. a Decision No 95 of 3 April, available online in English to all interested parties. We are of the opinion that the starting point for this problem committee need not be a channel-based restriction, that is, our aim is not to limit anything. The aim is to analyse the possibility of restrictions in the Estonian legal order, which restrictions are applicable and substantive, as there are also declarative or ineffective restrictions that cannot be considered rational. We also want to find out how the current Media Services Act, which provides for the possibility of applying restrictions, gives this competence to the Minister of Culture to exercise national supervision and how such a monitoring mechanism operates in our legal order. We believe that there is a real problem and there are several aspects to it. Firstly, as I emphasised, propaganda contrary to the fundamental values of our constitution, which comes from a third country and is intended to affect the people of our country. Secondly, the need to inform the Russian-speaking population of our country. Thirdly, there is also the issue of how to work with countries in a similar situation to us. We have foreseen three months' working time for the upcoming Committee on Problems. The Commission itself will be able to determine how far-reaching and in-depth it intends to work. I think it is more sensible to have such a working version, that if Parliament supports the formation of this committee, its positions will be completed during the composition of this Riigikogu. I think it is very important for society to be informed that there are such problems, and this series of topics must not fall between the various institutions. The most important thing is that we are dealing with topics that are complex, which are sensitive, with several elements. The main thing is that we do not discuss this only if there is a crisis, and that if there is something else on the agenda in a few months' time, this issue will not be forgotten, as we have unfortunately happened once and for all in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U54	Any questions for the waitress? Tõnis Kõiv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U55	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, In your report, you dealt with something like making a general European television channel in Russian. The European Union is known to have 28 countries and the languages of these Member States are official languages. Russian is not an official language of the European Union. When you talk about making the European Union's Russian-language television channel, it actually means translating all the content and material into Russian. The creation of such a Russian-language channel will in essence increase the importance of Russian, which in turn will lead to the granting of the status of the official language of the European Union to Russian. Why would the IRL want to increase the influence, power and scope of Russian in the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U56	No, the other way around. IRL certainly has no intention of increasing the role of Russian in the European Union. The official languages of the European Union are fixed, on the basis of which the European Union's administration takes place. However, it is clear to us that the diaspora of Russian-speaking people living in the territory of the European Union is currently a very influential and hostile propaganda in the media area, in the area of electronic media. I think that all countries, including national associations, have the task of protecting their media with the means at their disposal. Euronews' Russian-language programme will also be translated. The United States has been transmitting its Russian-language programme for decades, and no one has considered it so that the Russian-speaking programmes of the American Voice are designed to increase the share of Russian in the territory of the United States.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U57	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U58	President-in-Office of the Council. Good waitress! Since you just touched the American Voice in your last sentence, I want to ask you about this parallel. I will inevitably see that the American Voice was well condemned in its time, and the Soviet Union interrupted and prevented it. How do you assess how this interference, obstruction and counter-working affected the popularity of the American Voice, such as among the Estonian audience? Did this disturbance reduce popularity or did it increase popularity?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U59	I think that mixing the American Voice was definitely a problem for some people, because it was just technically difficult to listen to the radio crunch and so on. But the question wasn't whether the technical language was interrupted by the interference, but the question was that people wanted to know the truth. The demand for truth was the reason why the American Voice was heard, despite the constant drones between the show. I would emphasise once again that Latvia, Lithuania and Ukraine, which decided to limit the Rossija-RTR programmes, certainly did not aim to increase the visibility of the Rossija-RTR programmes on their national territory. Once again, we have the so-called channel limitation provided for in the Estonian Media Services Act. We have legislation that should apply when it comes to propaganda, hatred and incitement to hatred against fundamental rights in Estonia. Our proposal is to analyse whether and what limitations are effective at all. Certainly, if, in the course of the debate, we come to the conclusion that the implementation of some of the restrictions that different countries have made in the recent past is not rational or creates any other controversy that affects the increase in tension between ethnic groups living in the country, or is misunderstood, then the position that emerges from our parliamentary debate is also a remarkable statement for possible future crises. The worst part is when we say there is no problem. In other countries it is. In other countries, it has been resolved one way or the other, but for us the problem does not exist. It would be wrong and irresponsible to see the solution to this problem as very unambiguous or linear. Either we ban it or, on the contrary, we say it's all right, let's do what we want to do, let the TV show centre against the Republic of Estonia do. For example, when Estonia had not yet been freed, the Nadezhda radio operated on the territory of a military unit. Do we also say now that we have freedom of speech, what do we want to do? I think it's the other way around irresponsible behavior.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U60	Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U61	Thank you very much. When we talk about Europe and how Russian-speaking people across Europe can learn more about European news, there is an information channel called Euronews. When Cecilia Malmström visited Tallinn a few months ago, I also pointed out that in the new security situation we could use Euronews on a whole different basis and more intensively than we already have a channel like this. In other words, I ask you how you see that we can improve what already exists without creating something new. The news in Russian is also quite clearly directed towards the east in this way. What is your vision for enhancing Euronews?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U62	Thank you. I am not going to say here at all that I have some in-depth analysis of how Euronews can be viewed by Member States, by audiences, within the European Union, in Estonia, outside the European Union in Russia. I think that this thought development, whether we can do this more effectively on Euronews' soil, is appropriate and we would certainly make our proposals. We do not have control over the content of this programme, i.e. there can only be positive inclusion in which we would make our proposals. I think that this could certainly be a matter of discussion in this committee. We have not set such a starting point that the establishment of a Committee on Problems means the decision to set up a European TV channel. Firstly, it is not the competence of the parliament of Estonia to decide such a thing, but I think it is reasonable to analyse this idea. I think it's rational. Of course, if our wholesome analysis concludes that this intention can be achieved by other means, it will certainly be the first starting point to help implement it. We see that there are a lot of ideas. For example, the Chairman of the Board of ERR says that there is no need for the Baltic Channel, but it is also thought that ETV3 should be created. And all politicians, well not all, but many politicians have made their proposals. In my opinion, it is rational to try to understand these proposals freely and find out what is their'reasonable commonality'. When it comes to the conclusion that some of the proposals are, in practice, declarative, unimplementable or irrational and do not fulfil their objectives, I think it will make us stronger, not weaker. The key question is whether we accept that the problem is multifaceted, and this issue should be discussed and understood in Parliament in the format we propose. That's our proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U63	Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U64	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! I think this is undoubtedly a very important problem that has been encountered in Estonia before. And as we can see from developments in recent years, unfortunately, Russia's informational influence on Estonia and other European countries has not decreased, but, on the contrary, increased. In recent months, this has taken on a particularly large scale, because the distribution of war hysteria in our visible Russian television channels is literally a very serious problem. I have a question for you, as former Minister of Defence, as one area of security also concerns information security. How well do we in Estonia today have a "strategic idea" in this area? Perhaps the problem committee that is being set up should also address this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U65	Thank you. The information security issue has been coordinated by the State Chancellery. The issue of awareness at national level very seriously after another dramatic crisis, after the events of the Bronze Night. This is one aspect which we consider reasonable to discuss during the work of this committee. That is the problem, as I said, is that the problem is so multi-pronged, and if you start to solve it only from one side, then the real goal can be spread out. At the moment, we are faced with a neighbouring country that is indeed engaged in hostile influences that are not acceptable in our country or in what is known as normal international law, in relations between countries. This country is involved in propaganda. It would be very simple to say that it is simply freedom of expression. This is not a national media project in the Russian Federation that earns money and conveys information or entertainment. That is the understanding that our proposal has been based on. This is a systematic and ongoing information operation in one country, which, with its influence and aggression, attacks other countries. The instrument is the Russian diaspora, which is being influenced by tensions and confrontation in these societies. It's a reality. It is also a question of what are the possibilities of the Estonian state and legislator to address this problem at all. One way is to say that there is no problem or that it is inevitable. We are in such a situation that, given our resources, given our liberal media policy, we raise our hands. Another option is to go this way, as Latvia and Lithuania have gone, i.e. to impose restrictions on the respective media regulators and also on specific channels. In this way, it could be shown that the state does not permit illegal misinformation and hatred distributed to this extent. We have offered the opportunity to first admit that there is a multifaceted problem and to try to rationally, without going into the slogans, to understand what the possibilities of the state are. I would like to emphasise once again that there are limits to this in our current legislation, but they have hardly been implemented in this type of situation. The most important thing is that we also get a sober overview at parliamentary level. I believe that it is also worthwhile in itself that we in this committee of Parliament's problem committee try to make sense of the extent of the influence of the Russian Federation. As you said yourself, this is not some sort of 10 to 20-year continuous activity, but it is a linear and geometric progression of influence. We have to understand that. It is foolish to imagine that maybe this time will pass and the crisis in Ukraine will somehow be resolved by negotiations between states, will fall away, life will go on. According to the current logic of the Russian Federation, life will not go on, but, in reality, whatever relations between countries would be rhetorical, this influence will be extensive and constantly increasing. Consequently, there is a problem, its impact is even increasing, so I think it is reasonable not to ignore it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U66	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U67	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! Surely there is no point in ignoring it. The question is whether the real purpose of submitting this draft is to provide support to the debate currently started in society on the possible creation of a Russian-language television channel in Estonia. Is this one of the main subjects of this debate?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U68	Thank you. I think that's a very constructive question. Our proposal is based on a problem, not a specific idea. If we had proposed the creation of this channel as a solution, we would have proposed the Riigikogu's draft decision to create a TV channel or proposed to the government to start supporting it. As the round of questions in this Chamber has sounded in positive form, there appear to be several proposals or options. Perhaps we can implement several things in parallel. Perhaps we can come to a rational understanding that an idea is not simply viable either way because of the small size of the media auditorium, the small size of the advertising market or other motives. But this channel idea is certainly also one thing that it would make sense for this Commission to analyse calmly.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U69	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U70	Thank you. Another supplementary question on the same subject: why would this committee of concern relate only to the effect of television channels? The Internet is just as important today. If you recall the same procedure in the draft law on partnership, very many e-mails came directly from Russian servers. The usual e-mail program does not show this, but if you open the e-mail data and see where it came from, you can see that it's from Russian servers. Perhaps many Estonians live well in Russia and Estonian Russians have sent letters there, but nevertheless. It is clear that on the east side there would be an interest in stopping processes in Estonia that set a precedent in the former Soviet Union zone. It's not just television channels.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U71	Thank you. Imre, you pointed to what we had this heated argument about. And then these e-mails, too. I think the Chancellery of the Riigikogu closed them down for a few days. The members of the Riigikogu are also subject to influence, so that e-mails do not reach the MPs. I think, more seriously, you're right. One aspect of the influence of the Russian Federation, or of these so-called information operations, is the mass industry's volume of on-line activities, bloggers, commentwriters, etc. This takes place on a very large scale in the Russian Federation's own territory, in the form of a'showful public opinion' in a place that could be called Russian Internet Space. It would be naive to think that if there was an effect on TV, it would be like stopping on the Internet. There is no doubt that electronic influence cannot be regulated transnationally, given the nature of the Internet, so our starting point is extremely specific and complex. We did not set this as an objective, but certainly if, in the course of the procedure for this draft, the Commission considers that this round of issues or influence should be dealt with more widely, I believe that this should be discussed openly in the Steering Committee. I do not think that it is possible to oppose influence in the form of restrictions on the territory of Estonia, but we can make sense of this and, in turn, inform our public proactively. What's the point of this kapo yearbook? It is really about maintaining constitutional order, and it is also about preventing, in legal terms, not sanctioned action, but about what we intend to do that could undermine constitutional order. If you make sense of this and pass on information to the public, it will certainly have a major preventive effect.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U72	Kalev Kallemets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U73	Thank you. Dear waitress, Basically, the direction is the right one, but since it has been a very tense time and it has not been possible to examine the proposal in detail, I would ask you to briefly say one or two basic technical measures on how you think this propaganda should be acted against.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U74	Thank you. In our opinion, the measures against propaganda are as follows: First, the possible positive initiatives of the Russian media space, whether in international cooperation, either at European Union or Baltic level, or as the initiative of the Estonian state itself through public-law media. Secondly, it is certainly one of the real, real results of this opposition that will result in Parliament being able to interpret the problem and this "influence" in the form of a public report. This certainly creates controversy in Estonian society, so it can be considered as an independent result. The third option, which has been legally used by the various countries (as I mentioned here), during the current crisis in Ukraine, is the application of legal restrictions. As I said, the Estonian Media Services Act also provides for the possibility of applying legal restrictions. Whether the Estonian legal order allows this to be implemented in practice, how it should be done in the first place and whether it is rational is a matter of its own. I think it makes sense to analyse all the proposals and this problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U75	Thank you, Urmas Reinsalu! The Commission's waitress is Rein Lang. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U76	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed this proposal at its regular meeting on 9 June. a and the debate was thorough and dim. It discussed whether there was a problem that should be resolved by the Parliament's Trouble Committee, as well as what the content of the problem was discussed. Specific measures were also discussed, which maybe somebody should implement somewhere. I'm gonna mark a few points of view. For example, the speaker said that the Estonian Constitution clearly states that we do not have censorship. Consequently, any proposals made with the aim of preventing the spread of one media channel or another in Estonia are highly doubtful. Secondly, do we have such a problem that we do not know how the Russians lie through their media? There's probably no such problem, because everyone knows they're doing it. Is there a part of society in Estonia that needs to be repeated? Again, the speaker does not think it is necessary to do so. I also expressed this in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that our Russian-speaking population knows perfectly that there is no particular credibility in the Russian media. Then it was discussed who should be involved in such matters, analyse the real impact of such influence in Estonia and plan some countermeasures. There were all sorts of ideas about that. Andres Herkel, for example, felt that the National Broadcasting Council and the Defence Police should discuss this issue. Priit Toobal thought that the National Broadcasting Council was definitely the right place to discuss it. Tarmo Tamm also felt that the National Broadcasting Council and the Commission set up at the Ministry of Culture should address this issue. Rait Maruste suggested that Parliament could, for example, invite all parties together in the form of a joint session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Culture, and at least find out who is doing what, when and how. Indrek Saar felt that there was also a committee for the supervision of security authorities in Parliament, which should assess the risks of propaganda. He was also a little upset about the loss of office as Minister of Population. Again, Urmas Reinsalu vehemently argued against this. Peep Aru, on the other hand, thought that the Security Authority Monitoring Commission would certainly be looking out for the right principle to check whether the activities of security authorities in dealing with problems were in line with the law. It must be said, however, that the general opinion of the Commission on the setting up of such a committee of problems was sceptical. There was indeed a debate on the possibility that the initiator would withdraw the proposed draft and we would do one parliamentary hearing with two committees, and then let us see what happens and what happens next. It was also found that Parliament should not overly intervene in the law of self-regulation of the executive power. It was discussed quite seriously, so could this be the way to act? However, Indrek Saar suggested that the draft be sent to full reading and to see if the majority of the members of the Riigikogu supported it. Since such a specific proposal was made, the matter was put to the vote in committee. Three procedural decisions were taken by the Commission: firstly, to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 18 June (the proposal was consensual, but it must be noted that this failure had not succeeded in discussing it on 18 June); secondly, to propose that the draft be rejected (there were 9 members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, 2 against, no abstentions); thirdly, to appoint Rein Lang, a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs (this proposal received consensus support). Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U77	Questions for the waitress. Paul-Eerik Rummo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U78	Thank you. Good colleague! You used the little-known word 'demourse' in the debate on the committee. Would you open the contents of that word?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U79	I interpret it as a debate with such an elevated emotional charge.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U80	Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U81	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Dear waitress, However, I realized that the problem really exists. And I think that, despite the result of today's vote, it is very appropriate that the Riigikogu committees really continue to deal with this issue in one way or another. But my question has nothing to do with this, but with your strong statement that censorship does not exist in the Republic of Estonia. Please comment from my own perspective on the decisions that were made here a few days ago in our Prime Minister's office on which media can and cannot be admitted to a press conference! Isn't that something to do with censorship?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U82	Thank you. Marko, your question goes beyond the scope of this item. I can therefore reply very specifically: this organisational decision taken by the Prime Minister or the State Chancellery was not discussed by the Commission at its meeting. But such a sentence that there is no censorship in Estonia is found in our constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U83	Barbi Pilvre, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U84	I want to ask you a more specific question. Doesn't the word "soothing" mean scattered, dim, vague? I somehow revived as soon as I heard that the conversation on your committee was dim, dim, dispersive.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U85	That is precisely, by the way, because our debate in the committee was very scattered. He was so scattered that from discussing organisational, administrative matters, he went to discuss matters of substance. In conclusion, I would like to say that the majority of the Commission has come to a clear understanding that it is not rational to set up a committee of problems to discuss such issues. There are a lot of problems in society, we have problems in the social field, there are problems everywhere. If we start forming Riigikogu problem committees, hundreds would probably get them.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U86	Thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Jaak Allik, please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U87	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I must say that it is hypocritical to put such a bill into Riigikogu proceedings. An analysis of the situation and the extension of the ERR programme in Russian is a very serious and important issue. Unfortunately, this will only reach the awareness of Estonian politicians if a crisis situation has arisen in connection with informing our Russian-speaking compatriots. The last crisis was the Bronze Night and now the events of Ukraine. In the meantime, there was no silence for seven years, during which no government did anything, including the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, the author of the bill. Now, once again, the issue will be highlighted in a purely propagandistic key if action is to be taken against the influence of the Russian Federation's television channels. Instead of the substantive concern of improving the integration of our Russian-speaking population into the Estonian Information Space, this bill sounds like a desire to limit the possibilities of viewing Russian television channels. For a person who has lived in a society where, in a propaganda war, attempts were made to succeed by mixing, muffling and censoring different information, it is hideous to bring such a way of thinking to a democratic Estonia. The last time Karl Vaino wanted to do something like this in this country was 30 years ago when he wanted to ban Finnish television, but even he soon understood the impossibility of such an idea. In the current state of technology, besides harvesting satellite receivers, the internet should probably be censored and Facebook and Twitter banned. But it is not just the technological ridicule of such ideas. It should be understood that hiding your head in the war of propaganda like an ostrich in the sand, in the hopes of success with a ban, means a clear and public capitulation. To think that if you stop people from looking at something, they start looking at the right propaganda, it's childish. In fact, it means directing people to "bad channels" secretly, like we used to do when we listened to the BBC and the American Voice. Of course, any thinking person can understand the provocative nature of such an idea, because as a debate alone, it pours water on the mill of those who wish to talk about discrimination against the Russian-speaking population in Estonia, and of course it provokes widespread resentment against the Estonian state among the viewers of these channels, among our compatriots. So, in fact, it poses a threat to internal security, rather than reducing it. But that's it. The real problem is the expansion of our substantive information space for Russian-speaking people. Of course, the most unnecessary means of dealing with such a matter would be the committee that the authors of the draft wish to form. The Executive, or Ministry of Culture, has already set up a specialist problem committee, which has also made its recommendations. On Tuesday, the Estonian National Broadcasting Council also discussed this issue, who came to the opinion that the Estonian state needs a long-term strategy for developing Russian-language media. Estonia's National Broadcasting should play a major role in implementing this strategy. We found that the existing ERR outputs aimed at the Russian-language auditorium, But to change and strengthen the Russian-language information field created in Estonia, it is necessary to create a fully-fledged Russian-language public television channel. In this case, the public media could be more visible and influential among the Russian-speaking audience and mediate news, information, opinions and beliefs produced in Estonia to the Russian-speaking population, along with the rest of the diverse and educational TV programme. The Estonian National Broadcasting Council acknowledged the need to create a Russian-language TV channel if it is a long-term strategic decision, if the desired activities are to be financed in a stable manner and if this does not affect the financing of the current activities of the ERR. At the same time, we pointed out that the Government of the Republic should also aim to better integrate the Russian-speaking population into the Estonian Information Space and provide money for this in the framework of the currently developing national programme 'Integrating Estonia 2020'. What is more, better integration of the Russian-speaking population into the Estonian Information Space cannot be considered as a propaganda objective to oppose something or anyone, as is done in the title of this draft. If this is the only purpose in mind, I fully support the statement by Andrus Ansip that it would be more effective to build a swimming pool in the city of Narva instead of opening such a channel. In order to change people's consciousness, the most effective means is to change the nature of these people. I see and support the need for a Russian-language television channel with the aim of creating better opportunities for the opinions, assessments and attitudes of our Russian-speaking population to reach the awareness of Estonian society. Of course, this must and can be done not only by increasing the share of Russian-language programmes or by creating a channel in itself, but by involving representatives of this social group more closely in our Estonian-language publications and cultural programmes. Our aim should be to shape the attitude towards the Estonian National Broadcasting Channels as our own channels within this audience, then they will also be watched, listened to and believed. Only in this way can we know whether the recently expressed opinion of journalist Vahur Kooritsa that a large part of our Russian-speaking population supports Vladimir Putin's policy towards Ukraine is true or not, and whether they do so simply as a propaganda victim or for more fundamental reasons. Then we can discuss these reasons freely. Therefore, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I call on all colleagues to support the proposals made by the Government of the Republic in the budgetary procedure for next year, hopefully, and to reject the draft decision submitted by the IRL Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U88	Urmas Reinsalu, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U89	I don't agree with you, Jaak! Why don't I agree? Because you made almost the same speech, except for that part of the draft decision, even when ETV2 was made. I remember you said the same thing then, that everything's going to be nice, everything's going to work out, everything's done, creating this TV channel is the solution to everything. The second thing that worries me is your starting point, how can we hurt Russian TV channels? They have their own auditorium, viewers, who maybe get upset. You turned the target upside down in that draft decision, and you did the right thing. In fact, it would be best for the discussion to take place in the ETV3 created through the so-called Estonian media. Let's have opinions out there, and if they're Putin-minded, that's the position, and we'll find out, as a sociological consequence, why these are the reasons. Figuratively speaking, if the small format of RTR Estonia, which the Estonian taxpayer is paying for, should come up here too, it is as if it were being pulled under the auspices of freedom of expression, which Rein would say there is no censorship, we will talk about anything. I think this starting point is quite wrong. First of all, we are talking about expanding the possibilities of the Russian media space in Estonia. Secondly, information and influence from Russia about the Russian-speaking community of third countries, including the community living in the Republic of Estonia, is a problem. You can't ignore these things and keep them in different drawers. It's like hiding your head in the sand. It also reveals why Rein referred to this debate as a moron. Yes, in order to resolve this issue, those responsible were also proposed as they admitted that there was a multifaceted problem. It was proposed that the Broadcasting Council should be responsible. Jaak, is the influence of the Russian Federation exercised by the Broadcasting Council? Will this council examine, analyse and evaluate? The second person was indeed proposed to be responsible for the kapo committee in the Riigikogu. Peep Aru, the head of the Kapo Commission, said that what you are joking about is not within the competence of the Kapo Commission. That is correct, because then it turns out that this committee should be dealing with media problems like some sort of media and defence police committee. It was also proposed that I remember that Rait Maruse called the Defence Forces. Well, if we say liberal Rhine found that we didn't have censorship, and now we decide that the Defence Forces should deal with the problems of media and Russian television, then we're gonna get to a real ditch. In short, friends, this problem exists and it is not a propaganda bill. Just like Jaak said, we'll deal with it when the crisis comes. If the crisis goes down, we won't be dealing with it anymore. I understand that the real solution proposed by Jaak is to write a letter to the Ministry of Culture, and we will request money from next year's budget to make a Russian-language channel and everything. When they get the money, they make the channel and it's okay. I repeat, this is déjà vu. A similar letter already came, we did ETV2 for about the same reasons and allocated money. ETV3 is now under discussion. Unfortunately, as happens in life, crises and confrontations may arise. During the next crisis, we will do ETV4 and then ETV5. Whoever's looking at them is a question of their own, Jaak. So, guys, we have a problem. I think that if the Riigikogu rejects this draft today, we will actually send a signal to society that we do not consider it necessary to address this multifaceted problem in Parliament. As regards Reinu's call for us to discuss these matters jointly in the Riigikogu at the committee meeting, there is nothing to prevent us from doing this regardless of whether or not the initiative of the committee of concern has been implemented. I am categorically opposed to linking it to the word 'censorship'. We have the Media Services Act, which was adopted when Rein was Minister of Culture (he is fleeing the hall). This law also provides for restrictions that apply in Estonia. It is precisely the question of who is responsible for national supervision. The Minister of Culture Lang submitted a draft according to which the Minister of Culture is the national supervisory authority. We are far from calling it censorship because this text has been drafted on the basis of European Union legislation and these restrictions have been put in place to protect fundamental rights and freedoms in particular. I also categorically oppose the designation of Latvia and Lithuania, which, by analogy with the European Media Services Directive, regulates their national media, as countries that establish censorship. It's not like that. These are, however, the rule of law, and the restrictions they impose have been made precisely on the basis of constitutional values and so that war propaganda can not be promoted with impunity between peoples. Friends, once again, the problem doesn't solve itself. This problem is multifaceted and multi-elemental, and we cannot rely solely on individual initiatives to resolve it. I think it does not lead us to a real solution, but it burys the whole issue and brings attention to individual issues, as Jaak skilfully did, as if it were just a matter of whether we have ETV3 or not. The influence of the Russian Federation is growing, not shrinking, so the problem is growing, not shrinking. Can this be solved with the Narva swimming pool? What does this have to do with anything? Why can't there be a swimming pool in Narva? Why are we against having a problem committee in the Riigikogu or a swimming pool in Narva? Then why don't we do both? I wouldn't want us to run away from the real problem. This may lead to an uncomfortable conclusion in a number of daily policies or actual policies, which, with their rhetoric, could affect someone's voices or their internal political auditoriums on which they want to focus. Let's not do this! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U90	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The position of the lead committee is to reject draft 658 at first reading. Let us begin with the preparation of the vote on this proposal. Dear colleagues, I would like to put to the vote the draft proposal of the lead committee 658 to be rejected at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 53 votes in favour and 8 members of the Riigikogu against, with one abstention. Draft 658 has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the procedure. The third item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U91	Let us move on to the fourth item on the agenda. This is the third reading of draft Act 692 implementing the General Part of the Environmental Code Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? There's no call. So we can go to the preparation of the final vote. Since the adoption of draft 692 requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu, before the final vote we will carry out a verification of presence. The majority of 57 members of the Riigikogu have registered as "perpetual" and there are no 44. Dear colleagues, I will put to the final vote draft 692. Please take a stand and vote. There are 57 members of the Riigikogu, there is no one against and 1 is impartial. Draft Act 692 on the Implementation of the General Part of the Environmental Code Act initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law. The fourth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-20_U92	Let's move on to agenda number five. This is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on maritime safety initiated by the Riigikogu members Aivar Riisalu, Arto Aasa, Deniss Borodichi, Inara Luigas, Kalev Lillo, Kalle Laaneti, Lauri Laas, Lauri Luige, Lembit Kaljuvee, Olga Sõtnik, Peeter Laurson, Rainer Vakra, Rannar Vasiliev, Remo Holsmer, Valeri Korbi and Vladimir Velman. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? There's no call. So we can go to the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 646 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. There are 60 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents or abstentions. Bill 646 has been passed as a law. The fifth item is therefore closed. Dear fellows, I wish you a beautiful Midsummer Day, Midsummer Day, Victory Day and a lot of strength in our work! Thank you. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 12.09 p.m.
