ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-27_U1	Honourable fellows! Good Riigikogu! We will begin the Monday session of the third working week of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or inquiries! Please, Urbo Vaarmann!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-27_U2	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Centre Party, I would like to pass on two inquiries. The first is the Minister of Culture, Urve Tiidus, from whom we wish to understand the age limit imposed on dancers. At the end of last year, the news that caused great frustration to the Estonian public reached the conclusion that the age limit for participants in the general dance party this summer would be 60 or 65 years. Three out of the 12 dancers in women groups and four out of the 16 dancers in mixed groups can be between the ages of 60 and 65. In this regard, we want to pass on an inquiry. On behalf of the Group of the Centre Party, I would like to refer the second question to Mr Jaak Aavikkogu, Minister for Education and Science. That's about what happened last week at Tapa Special School. I went there myself, and the picture that opened up there was really bad. We want to know what the Ministry is planning to do to stabilise the situation there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-27_U3	Priit Toobali, the speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-27_U4	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of a number of colleagues, I am going to pass on an inquiry from the Centre Party Group to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts. This concerns the spread of computer malware in Estonia. In mid-January this year, the State Information System Authority and the police were informed that malware called Crypto Locker had reached Estonia, making the data permanently unreadable on the computer. According to Triin Nigul, Information Security Expert of the National Information System Agency, it is not possible to unlock a computer infected with malware without a criminal, as the rescue encryption key is located on the control server of the cybercrime. As an e-state, Estonia has built up its operation to a large extent to use the Internet and computers. We are talking not only about national registers or ID cards, but also about elections and banking. There's no news to anyone that a stranger's hand has emptied a lot of people's accounts. At the end of last year, the study commissioned by the RIA was completed, where Estonia will be encouraged to adopt strong solutions to protect data on the ID card in the coming years. According to the specialists, it is now possible to crack the security system of our data in just a few hours. In particular, four questions have been put to the Minister on the subject of e-elections and e-banking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-27_U5	Please ask the representative of the Government of the Republic of Estonia, Heili Tõnisson, to the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-27_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! Today, the Government of the Republic initiates two draft laws and submits a draft decision of the Riigikogu. First, the draft amendment to § 22 of the Advertising Act. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. Secondly, 'between the representatives of the governments of the Member States meeting within the Council on the financing of European Union assistance under the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014 to 2020 in accordance with the ACP-EU Partnership Agreement and on the allocation of financial assistance for the Overseas Countries and Territories to which Part Four of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union applies' draft law on ratification. In the Riigikogu, Urmas Paet, Minister of Foreign Affairs, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law. And thirdly, the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State on the European Union peace-building mission in the Central African Republic." In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Defence Urmas Reinsalu when processing this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-27_U7	Good fellows! On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted three drafts and three inquiries, according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Let's move on to the messages. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the Government of the Republic's draft Maritime Labour Act, initiated on 2 December 2013, to be 552 new lead committees of the Legal Affairs Committee. Now we're conducting a presence check. 87 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 14. Good fellows! Prior to the adoption of the agenda, the Legal Affairs Committee has proposed to remove draft law amending and implementing the law on law enforcement 424 from the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. We will begin with this addition to the preparation for the adoption of the agenda. A microphone for Eiki Nestor, please! A procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-27_U8	I'm sorry, but I really do have a procedural question. Under what circumstances did the Board of the Riigikogu decide to exchange the draft law on maritime labour?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-27_U9	As far as I know, due to the fact that it was considered appropriate to change the lead committee during the inter-Commission negotiations. If I am wrong, I would ask the chairmen or members of the committees to give a hand and ask a procedural question. It seems to me that I am not wrong, so I will stick to my answer: it was decided as a result of a debate between the Commissions. Let's move on to our procedure. Dear colleagues, I will put this week's agenda on the table with one of the improvements I have made on the proposal of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Please take a stand and vote. 88 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-27_U10	Let's move on to the questioning. Today, one of them is on the agenda, and this is the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Urbo Vaarmanni, Viktor Vasiliyev, Kalev Kallo, Enn Eesmaa, Peeter Võsa, Lauri Laas, Vladimir Velmani, Valeri Korbi, Mikhail Stalnukhin and Mailis Repsi on 2 December 2013 regarding the work of the Enterprise Development Foundation. The inquiry shall bear the number 370 and shall be answered by Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. I ask the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Urbo Vaarmanni, to introduce the content of the inquiry to the public!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-27_U11	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. Today we want an explanation of the work of the Enterprise Estonia. In mid-November, EAS started a marketing campaign in Russia, which called for the monitoring of the Estonian Tourism Information fan page. A private flight to Estonia with 75 friends will be raffled out between the participants in the campaign. The campaign was advertised with four video clips, the main characters of which were the giant marjoshkas, who symbolize Russian tourists coming to Estonia on a tourist trip. Giant dolls are constantly being depicted in embarrassing situations in the bus, hotel, restaurant and spa, where Estonian tour operators help them. According to Eesti Päevaleht, Estonian entrepreneurs operating in Russia called for the end of the EAS campaign with taunting content, which the EAS decided to do. Several Estonian advertisers and experts found that the authors of the campaign tried to imitate stereotypes related to the Russians, but went too far with their amplification. The EAS replied no to the media publication's requests to see the advertising deleted from the Internet. At the same time, the campaign was considered successful, in particular because of the high level of attention received. In total, the Matryos campaign cost EAS EUR 180000. In relation to the above, we have six questions. What is the EAS budget for 2013 and 2014 and how much is advertising expenditure? What is your assessment of the current work of EAS in introducing Estonia abroad? Have you seen any of the matryoska ads mentioned in the inquiry and do you think that this is a successful ad? Has the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications discussed the need for further monitoring of the activities of EAS? Have you discussed the problem with political party associates who are members of the EAS Board and have you considered the possibility of recalling the chairman of the EAS Board? On 28 December a meeting of the EAS Council was held, which also discussed this issue. Have you been informed of the outcome of the Council's discussions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-27_U12	Thank you. I now ask the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, of the Riigikogu, to answer an inquiry that bears the number 370!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-27_U13	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable members of the Riigikogu, including good heirs! I'll answer that question. Question 1: 'What is the EAS budget for 2013 and 2014 and how much is advertising expenditure? ' The EAS budget amounted to EUR 110.7 million in 2013 and EUR 70.3 million in 2014. As a comment, this reduction is in many respects affecting a number of regional investments, which the EAS has also carried out, above all, schools, kindergartens and similar institutions. The total amount of advertising expenditure in 2013 was EUR 1.8 million and is planned to be EUR 1.6 million in this year's budget, which represents 2,5% of the volume of the annual budget. Advertising costs will be directed to the Estonian tourism target markets for the promotion of tourism in the vast majority, or more than 90% of them in cooperation with tourism operators. Question 2: 'How do you assess the current work of EAS when introducing Estonia abroad? 'Looking at the work of EAS over a longer period of time, you can see that the work of EAS has been systematic and consistent. At the same time, given the challenges facing the Estonian economy and our level of development, it can be said that we certainly still have considerable room for improvement in order to keep up with the requirements of time. In total, EAS has defined 15 target markets for itself in the field of tourism. These are Finland, Russia, Latvia, Lithuania, Norway, Sweden, Germany, Italy, Spain, France, the Netherlands, Great Britain, China, Japan and the USA. The costs associated with these will be covered by the available resources, which are higher than the advertising costs alone. The work also includes other activities such as cooperation with foreign journalists on tourism, cooperation with tour operators offering visits to Estonia, information days organised in target markets, participation in foreign fairs, various campaigns. It's all tourism. I will also mention some figures on 2013 activities in target markets, just to give you some perception. A total of 126 events and campaigns have been organised. More than 600 journalists have been informed about tourism and travel issues in general. There are 1337 partners from the tour operators. The number of visits to the online environment at Visitstonia.com has increased to 3.7 million per year. While assessing the activities of EAS, Estonia's reputation will certainly be influenced by work with foreign investments, whose main objective is above all to create new jobs with high added value in Estonia and increase the state's tax revenue. EAS has identified information-communication technology, cleantech, service centres as growth areas focused on external markets. Apart from making investments, the task of the EAS is to help the foreign company expand the activities started in Estonia and encourage international groups to transfer other activities to Estonia. The third course of action, which concerns the creation of Estonian image abroad, is the work on foreign fairs. In 2013, a total of 10 trade fairs took part in cooperation with businesses, with over 100 companies from us. The biggest foreign fair was the boat fair Hanseboot 2013, where Estonia was also a partner country. The third question is whether I have seen the matryoska ads mentioned in the inquiry and whether I believe that this is a successful advertisement. I've seen them. I was then in St Petersburg with the Estonian business delegation, and the first emotional reaction was not as black and white as you claimed in your inquiry. I also, afterwards, see no reason for non-criticism, and I certainly do not consider it appropriate to take a position at political level in order to assess the work of an independent tourism agency. The activities of EAS in introducing Estonia have undoubtedly produced positive results, and the figures related to this so-called "matrjoška campaign" are also very effective. I have a very thorough report on this, if the heirs are interested, you can introduce it. As a result of the campaign, 358000 people were involved, 2.4 million people were contacted on NRJ radio in Moscow, 1.8 million people per day in Love Radio in St. Petersburg, 203 times were broadcast on radio, 6.4 million were covered by the central auditorium, 2.2 million of them online and 4.2 million by radio. Three times the number of fans of the relevant Russian Facebook page increased. New contacts represent a significant added value through them communication can be continued by providing information to entrepreneurs and offering offers to visit Estonia. In general, Russia is now one of the fastest growing tourism markets for Estonia. There is intense competition for tourists travelling out of Russia. We have developed well in this area in recent years, and I dare say that EAS has played an important role in this, which has involved various partners and has made a major contribution itself. The number of Russian tourists in Estonian accommodation companies has increased more than twice in the last four years. Last year, the number of Russian tourists in Estonian accommodation companies exceeded 300,000, with an increase of 15% compared to the previous year. Question 4: Has the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications discussed the need for further monitoring of EAS activities? " The answer is that not in connection with this campaign. As a comment, I can say that the Enterprise Estonia is probably the most audited organisation in Estonia today. I would like to point out that the European Court of Auditors, the European Commission, through its "internal control audit units," the Estonian National Audit Office, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, as well as the external auditor of EAS, have the right to audit their activities. And indeed, these checks have been remarkably numerous. Question 5: 'Have you also discussed the problem with the political party partners who are members of the EAS Council, and have you considered the possibility of recalling Cinzia Siig, Chairman of the EAS Council? " The answer to both questions is no. Usually no one campaign ministry and minister discusses, EAS is still an independent foundation. Our focus is on strategic issues related to the promotion of entrepreneurship, innovation, export and tourism, as well as problems related to the inclusion of foreign investment. EAS has been a driving force in all this work and has also been involved in many activities that are important for Estonia's development. I'm going to use this podium and introduce some of them. The programmes aimed at EAS entrepreneurship have contributed significantly to increasing the entrepreneurial activity of Estonian people as well as internationalisation. The sales revenue of companies receiving start-up or export refunds, as well as those participating in the Knowledge and Skills Development Programme, has increased by an average of 10 to 30%. During the last five years, the amount of innovation and development expenditure in Estonia has increased significantly compared to gross domestic product. It is known that if more than 2% of funds are invested, this is an important quantitative indicator to characterise structural changes in the economy. According to our calculations, nearly 90% of Estonian R &amp; D projects have been launched with the help of EAS. EAS is the only institution that systematically provides services to foreign investors. Last year, 70 business delegations, investors' visits were served. With the direct help of EAS, tens of foreign investments have been brought to the country in tens of millions of euros and hundreds of new jobs have been created, not to mention softer supporting activities to maintain and increase investment activity in Estonia. EAS has funded and cooperated with eight technology development centres. At present, they have a total of over 70 partners, including four universities, where 500 high-skilled jobs are created and directly linked to innovation. Dozens of patents have been protected, and the export revenues of the partner companies in the technology development centres have increased by more than 80% in four years. EAS has launched more than 20 clusters in cooperation with Estonian entrepreneurs, involving both small and large Estonian companies. Most of the participating companies estimate that cooperation with external partners has improved thanks to clusters and has contributed to the increase in sales revenue from new products and services. EAS has contributed to the growth of start-up entrepreneurship. Three private capital business accelerators have been financed through EAS. EAS has helped to launch the network of business angels EstBAN, organised training and study trips and brought international mentors to Estonia. This list may continue, this information was just a background for you to evaluate the activities of EAS. And sixth, last question: '28. On 12 December a meeting of the EAS Council took place, which also discussed this issue. Have you been informed of the outcome of the Council's discussions? 'I don't have any information from the EAS Council meeting on that date, no matter how much I did. In fact, December 28 was Saturday, after Christmas. The last Council meeting took place on 11 December. When it comes to the matryochka campaign, I am aware that the EAS has discussed it. Certainly, the internal procedures of the EAS could be improved in such a way as to give more thought to decision-making processes when finalising all types of campaigns. Appropriate technical solutions must also be analysed. As far as the plot of the use of matrices is concerned, yes, it refers to the need to test ideas more widely on the external market before they are finally operational.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-27_U14	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-27_U15	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I'll come back to the marjoshkas. I'm Russian. To be honest, the first time I looked at those clips, I'd be happy to slap my teeth down the throat of the one who made them. Then, of course, laughter came along. But there was one question. All right, you can insult a certain nation. But can only this particular nation be offended, or can anyone be offended? Can you imagine an advertising with social content, where dolls would be in Southern Tyrol's folk clothes, or Germans, who would also whore, flatten and get drunk on the streets and dining establishments of Tallinn? Is it possible that we will see such advertising in the near future?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-27_U16	This was a specific question: do we see South Tyrol as an advert for the target market? I would rather say no, as this region is currently not directly included in the Estonian target markets. But I'll come back to the introduction to your question. I understand your emotions, but as a minister, I am refraining from making an assessment on one issue or another. Once again, EAS Tourist Agency is a professional and independent agency. It's very difficult for me to sense what the Russians have felt when they look at this ad. I have heard the same and different opinions, but I believe that my assessment here does not depend very much. However, such black and white responses or different responses should tell the tourism agency that advertising needs to be better considered before it is launched, taking into account possible negative reactions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-27_U17	Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-27_U18	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. As far as I've heard, the number of visas issued has slightly decreased, but you can hardly say anything about it. As I can understand from what you're saying right now, you found this advertising campaign to be entirely reasonable. Would you put those clips back on, and would you change anything or leave everything exactly the same?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-27_U19	This whole campaign was much wider. These decisions must actually be made by professionals. There can be no other answer. It must be within the competence of the Tourism Agency to decide on the content of such advertising.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-27_U20	Olga Soldier, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-27_U21	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Unlike my party associates, I liked the ad, and I don't know why EAS stopped showing it sooner than they planned. It's probably a matter of taste. And that's why I'm not asking you about the matryos, but about what's going on in EAS. I mean, another driver is about to leave. What's going on? Why is there such a high degree of framing in an institution that really matters in Estonia's economic life? What are the problems that plague EAS?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-27_U22	First of all, I assume you're Russian, and maybe you two can talk this out. I repeat, I was in St Petersburg when this topic came up in the Estonian media. I was able to watch it on YouTube, and there were also some Russians who smiled at them, admitting that the ad was sharpened and distorted, through the message of humor. But that's it. Now I will answer your question. Just as the media show: Chairman of the Board, Taavi Laur, has decided to leave in the spring for personal reasons, and the task of the Supervisory Board is to find a new chairman for the EAS Board, a new top executive who can carry out these tasks. I have no doubt that the EAS Council can do this.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-27_U23	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-27_U24	Thank you, Minister. This is where the Russian, who is Estonian, went into the debate. I am the politician, and I must say that I liked this ad for one simple reason: there are no Estonians much smarter than these matryos. So the score was 1: 1. But here's my question. I still did not understand why, despite this long discussion, and who took the decision to remove this ad from the air. They pay crazy money, they advertise, they launch a campaign, and then at some point somebody says we're done. Who was it, and why was it done? What was relied on?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-27_U25	These are the internal decisions of EAS. I assume the decision was made by the board of EAS.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-27_U26	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-27_U27	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! I have this question: did you, not as a minister, but as a wise educated person, like or dislike this matrioshka ad? What kind of emotions did that make you?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-27_U28	I'll answer in general. When I look at advertisements in Estonia about very different goods and services, events and everything else, I do not like very many. But I don't think under the circumstances you're referring to, I may not be a typical subject of advertising either. People are different and their tastes are different. There must certainly be certain ethical standards in mind, but I do not claim the right here to express any final view as to whether or not this advertising exceeded these standards. You also heard that Mrs Yana Toom praised these ads and was rather disturbed by the activities of EAS, which did not show them any more.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-27_U29	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-27_U30	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. You have said, when speaking about the activities of the Enterprise Estonia, that it is the responsibility of professionals and that management should primarily be supervised by the Council. However, the members of the Council have been appointed by you. In the meantime, I went to the EAS page and saw that the council was 12-membered. Two thirds of them indicate the post or status they belong to, four people are there without any explanation, and three of them are names I don't know. Why don't you tell me why you've appointed Raul Parusk, Arvi Altmäe and Kristina Tautsi to the council, who even the EAS can't tell us what they're doing and why they're on the council?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-27_U31	A very unexpected question. I don't think it would be appropriate for me to discuss the personalities here, but if you ask about Raul Parusk why he's on the EAS Council, you probably don't know much about the development of Estonian entrepreneurship and the people involved. I think that Raul Parusk is certainly a very successful practitioner in banking as well as in real business, as well as a very strong theorist. He has studied entrepreneurship and innovation at the University of Economics in Vienna and is a very broad-minded person who understands the challenges facing the Estonian economy. The same can be continued: Arvi Altmäe is not unknown either. When we talk about applied higher education and its role in the development of our economy, it is Arvi Altmäe who could enlighten us about strategic challenges that are often overlooked in the everyday political cap. As far as party membership is concerned, I also looked at the earlier compositions of the EAS Council and I assure you that in the current Council there are the lowest number of political party members ever. I dare say that, although I do not know exactly what the situation was at the beginning of the last decade. It has also been discussed whether the Council could not be smaller, perhaps a Council of 12, is too large for a semi-commercial organisation. There are too many different opinions. However, there are a number of organisations that want to be more involved in the Council's activities in one way or another. However, it could be discussed whether there should not be fewer members in the EAS Board than there are at present in the interests of more compact action.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-27_U32	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-27_U33	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I have heard the claims that during this proud advertisement, the issue of visas decreased by about 10%, i.e. it had a negative effect, not a positive one. Secondly, you said that the board decided to stop advertising, but it was still spent on EUR 180000. Who's responsible for this wasted money now? How much for minor sins will be captured and searched for 24 or 48 hours, but who will be responsible for such a waste?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-27_U34	The total cost of this campaign was EUR 180000, and I explained in my replies that the campaign actually achieved various channels, using social media, radio, to almost 6.4 million people. I believe that the whole campaign must be seen as a whole, not just these specific advertising clips.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-27_U35	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I open negotiations and ask for the Riigikogu speech chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-27_U36	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Advertising is what you try not to notice, but sometimes you see and sometimes much more than you really want to show. Remember, there have been cases of people sewn up in commercials with their mouths shut. It was supposed to be a social ad in order to agitize the Estonian language, and it aroused many disputes. However, shock advertising is said to be effective. There are also ads that hide behind a picture like mockery. Perhaps one of you will remember that 6 or 7 years ago, cheap tariffs for international phone calls were advertised and, depending on the country whose tariff was discussed, large posters were hanging all over Estonia, hockey players in the form of this country. When advertising was about Canada's tariff, Canada had players in the form of the United States, if, then in the form of the United States. In Ida-Virumaa, more cheap tariff was advertised for calling Russia. The Russian team hockey player had Al Bundy's face there. I still have this picture in the archives somewhere, so I took a really nice picture of this poster. Probably my colleagues haven't been watching a show like "The Doves," but it's pretty popular. Its main character is an asshole and a peasant Al Bundy, and he was made a Russian team player. Such disguised mockery. With regard to the matryochka advertising, I wondered whether it was possible that similar advertising would also be made towards Finland, towards Germany, towards Ireland. That would be very interesting. For example, if you use our "Welcome to Estonia" logo and the same ideology that was in this matrioshka ad, there should be some text on this picture: Hey you, stopd drivers and whores, we need your money! Let's go to Estonia! Right now! Something like that: "You drunks and bitches, we need your money! Come to Estonia! Right now! ' That's the message of the ad with the matryos, and I don't understand how such an abomination can be financed at state level. But since some people seem to like it, I would like to offer Mr. Minister a chance to try out the effects on the masses. Soon there will be elections, and maybe IRL will make pre-election advertising to Russians living in Estonia, which would also be with marjoshkas who are drunk, slamming and slapping. Let us see what the result will be! It's easy to talk about something black and white. Try on your skin, and you'll find out what kind of reaction such advertising will produce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-27_U37	The speech chair of the Riigikogu, Yana Toomi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-27_U38	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I also thank the Minister, who, unlike many of his colleagues, listens to our opinions. I came here for one reason. Mr Parts claimed that I liked the ad and that I praised it and defended it. As a media person, I have to admit that advertising was good, but the time for such advertising in Estonia is not ripe. A public authority dealing with such projects should take this into account. This advertising has probably been done by young people who are complex-free and laugh at others and themselves, perhaps completely sincerely, but society is not ready for it. It is very strange that in our country, I wanted to say 'tired', but I politely say 'exploited' millions of integration, or integration, but could not take into account it and would be involved in such buckets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-27_U39	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu speech chair Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-27_U40	Good President! Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I understand the frustration of my colleagues, and that is why I will not stop on the subject of matrjoška. We each have our past, present, and future, and we each have our own ideas and our own reasons for being offended. Since the topic of EAS came up again, I'm talking more about EAS. The good minister is in the hall right now and listens to me. Juhan Parts as a minister has always aroused admiration in me on the one hand, on the other hand, but I have also, from time to time, accused him very strongly and even asked him to consider, perhaps it would be reasonable for him to work in another sector where work would be less nervous. But right now, I feel sorry for the Minister. EAS is one of the most important structures in its area of administration, which shapes the overall tuning and nature of the business environment and is able to influence much. This morning I listened to the unsavory answers of the EAS Councilwoman on Kuku's radio. It was as if he repeated the same dogmas with memorized sentences, that their leader would go away for personal reasons, and they would probably find a good person to replace. On the question of the transmitter, when he went back in circles, he reconfirmed that 'we find, we do, we can, we can't'. It is sad that the Minister must also be responsible for this. He's actually got too much work to do. I have always said that the Ministry of Economic Affairs should be divided into two: the Ministry of Economic Affairs and perhaps the Ministry of Communications, which would also deal with all kinds of logistics. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-27_U41	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-27_U42	In fact, it is too much to ask one person to be adequately responsible for all of this. There have been very strange situations in EAS over time. I'll tell you a story. Suppose there are two companies operating in the same field in Estonia, i.e. in the specific case of tourism. One builds all its infrastructure for 100% of the state's money, because it does it in an area where oil shale production waste is stacked and where a certain centre is built. These companies do not place their money there at all. And then there are the same companies that operate in natural conditions in the south and have never received a cent of support on any request, because they are made clear in the EAS that you will not bring us more tourists. But take your finger! We know that the south of us is relatively close to Latvia and Russia is relatively close to South Estonia. EAS can somehow resolve such situations without any analysis in such a way that nothing can be done for one and the other. Hence my first constructive proposal to the Ministry and also to the management of the EAS. Perhaps it would be wise to attract more people there and leave behind a business area such as consulting companies who write EAS projects. Their business could end and EAS could communicate directly with companies. In the case of a particular example, it seems that one undertaking chose the wrong project writer and the other company chose the right project writer. And thick blood as much. Another entrepreneur who was a member of the EAS Board for some time and who, when leaving, became able to receive 25 million kroons of money in the processing industry. And these devices were not needed for anything other than to provide services to other players in the same sector on the market. Which in itself doesn't make sense, because you can't buy any kind of bench service. If you have production, you're gonna have to get that bench yourself. I don't think it made much sense to give the money. And the same company received a considerable amount of money later for the construction of one plant. And later, as we know, EAS had another problem: quite a considerable amount of money had been given as if wrong or somehow in breach of project rules, and this company was relatively at the top of the list. Such facts are sad. One former member of the Supervisory Board will later have a very warm relationship with EAS and will find funding; another entrepreneur will simply be thrown out the door on the grounds that his company will not bring any benefit to our society. All these things will remain alive, and if at one point this expelled person can speak of it openly in the press or anywhere, no wonder. That is why we need to think that suddenly something can be done better. In my opinion, the first thing that EAS should do would be to involve young talented analysts who communicate directly with entrepreneurs in their work. The EAS itself would analyse all the projects submitted. Then some EAS division manager shouldn't give you six A4 pages in the negotiations and ask who these consuls are supposed to communicate with. You're clearly told that if you take the first one, it's guaranteed, if you take the fourth one, you're not sure. These are all real cases, they've never been invented by anyone. Such signals to the market create the situation that when another chairman of the board resigns and the chairwoman of the council gives shaky, uncertain answers, society is attacking the gang of the characters rubbing their hands. Juhan Parts is a minister for whom I don't want things like this to happen. I'm gonna be honest and straight: hat off in front of him, I couldn't handle that kind of stress. If I were in his position, I would certainly have found another job or perhaps I would have gone somewhere to hide in the woods just wouldn't have the courage to come out, because all the time they're fighting. Does he really deserve all this? He didn't really know anything about these matryos. These marjoshkas were prepared somewhere and tried to do it as best as possible, but it turned out as usual in EAS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-27_U43	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-27_U44	Good fellows! Now, after the hammer hit, you can register for a speech in a free microphone. Please! There's a request. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu, Heimar Leng, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-27_U45	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear people! Poverty and lack of money haunt Estonia. The financial hunger of the Treasury has gone so bad that it was finally promised that the arrows of criticism of the mainstream media would be directed even against foreign banks operating in Estonia. So far, it's been a taboo subject. In the past, large newspapers and national broadcasting have kept their eyes closed, although it has been known for years that four major foreign banks have not paid a cent of corporate tax to the Estonian state on their huge profits. The Estonian Centre Party has tried to raise the subject several times from this very speaking point, but it has not been noticed. Luckily, today's Postman is picking it up. Swedbank, SEB, Danske Bank and Nordea Bank earned over 1 billion euros in net profit in Estonia in 2010-2012. Swedbank earned a quarter of it. None of these banks pays a cent of income tax to the Estonian state. The dumbest part is that everything is official and is happening according to Estonian law. As we know, companies in our country do not have to pay income tax if they do not take out profits, but invest in the development of this company. Unfortunately, however, this investment in banks has not been particularly observed in recent years. If Estonian banks do not produce profits in Estonia, foreign banks will not distribute profits in Estonia. That's what their head offices do in Motherland. Thus, Estonian people's money flows out of the country through these banks. And the sums are remarkable. I repeat, note that four banks made EUR 1 billion in profits over the last few years. This is an awfully large amount if we consider that the Estonian state budget is 8 billion euros. And this profit will not become the land of residence, or Maryland, as nothing. Foreign banks simply rob people of Estonia; they are made slaves of banks. As we know, a lot of bank loans will be taken for nearly 30 years, but deposits will only give our people lousy croissants. According to Eesti Pank's latest data, which has been made public in the media today, the already non-existent interest rate is falling even further. In November last year, interest rates fell by 0.21%, in December by 0.28 percent. Ladies and gentlemen, This kidnapping of Estonians should be stopped. Maybe we should think about our own country's bank. Why pay foreign banks money out of their pockets? We should think about a cooperative bank that relies on domestic capital and which could be a member of any person living in Estonia. We could put Estonian people's money together and make a big bank. Maybe we should think about that idea. A dozen savings and loan cooperatives, which are now operating successfully in Estonia, set a good example in developing cooperative banking. The fattening of foreign banks at the expense of a relatively poor average Estonian resident should, in my opinion, be stopped or, at the very beginning, these extremely profitable banks should at least pay taxes to our country. This is where the question arises as to why our government departments, especially the Reform Party, have not taken any steps in this direction, of course. Perhaps the members of these parties have a special interest in ensuring that the current situation persists. Perhaps these two parties will benefit financially from the current banking policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-27_U46	Thank you. I would like the Riigikogu's speech chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-27_U47	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen and everyone else who listens to us now! My last performance may have led to a mistaken feeling that I was attacking EAS. That is certainly not the case. My home town is grateful to EAS that several projects have been supported in recent years. Among them are a number of very important activities for the city, which are related to infrastructure, landscaping and so on. The question, however, is that it is not always checked, one job or another is ordered from, and how it is done. We'll get things started first. I came to the remote to give you my knowledge. I was head of the municipality for eight and a half years, and at that time I was strangely missed by this information, so last week I was surprised. You are certainly aware that Estonia joined the European Charter of Local Government in 1994 and entered into force for Estonia on 1 April 1995. You will probably also know that there is an association such as the Council of Europe Congress of Local and Regional Authorities, which is such an advisory House, but which is still being listened to in Europe. Personally, I did not know that our organisations that unite local authorities had approached this Congress at least twice: for the first time in 2000 and for the second time in 2009. And not long ago, three years ago, in 2010, the same Council of Europe Congress of Local and Regional Authorities recommended that the Committee of Ministers of the European Union invite the Estonian authorities to work together in nine specific directions. I cannot introduce everything to you, but it is recommended, for example, to clarify the legislation on the responsibilities of local governments. Isn't that up-to-date for us? Is it not true that all these tasks are rather vaguely formulated and the current wording of the laws does not interfere with the government's adding new functions to the local government even every day? Or such a direction: to rapidly amend national legislation so that the majority of the income tax received is allocated to local authorities. At present, we have local governments receiving about 50% of income tax, while in Latvia we receive 80%. That's what we're talking about. This rate should comply with the obligations imposed on local governments by the Constitution and other legislation of the Republic of Estonia and allow local governments to obtain income from local taxes. It's pretty hard for us to get a profit from local taxes. The fact that state funding must ensure the fulfilment of the functions of local governments is convinced by the Estonian authorities and the European Union, and now our government has remained convinced. In fact, this recommendation, which I spoke about last time, was already made in 2000. There will be another discussion about why the situation in the towns and villages is deteriorating, why more and more people are going abroad from Estonia. One reason is that the recommendations of the European Union that no one wants to comply with in the Government of the Republic will be ignored. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-27_U48	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu to speak to Yana Toomi!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-27_U49	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, I have a very apolitical speech. We all know that today the Holocaust Memorial Day is celebrated in the world. I believe that it would make sense for the Riigikogu to say a few words about this too. I'm not going to talk about this any further because we all know what the Holocaust was all about. Today, commemorative events are taking place in Estonian schools, and so it would be appropriate for us to mark this day here. The other thing that prompted me to come here is the fact that today 70 years became the day when the Leningrad blockade was broken. I happened to be at a book presentation yesterday. It is translated into Estonian, the title of the book is '871 days'. The author is Ninel Koribskaya, who survived the blockade when he was at first 10, then 11 and 12 years old. Later, he recorded his memories. There's no point in talking about what was Leningrad's blockade here either. I was very sorry that there were no representatives of the Estonian media in this presentation. In the Estonian media, I have not seen a single word from the book. I don't know if there's any interest in it or what it's about. My original plan was, I'm gonna take this book, I'm gonna come over here and read a few paragraphs. But then I realized that I couldn't handle it, I just can't read it with a loud voice. I have a sincere suggestion that we all keep such things in mind. And if you happen to notice this book in the store, take it and at least browse it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-27_U50	Thank you. There's no more calls. The free microphone round is over. Good fellows, thank you. Today's session is closed. I wish you the strength of our work! Closure of the sitting at 4.02 p.m.
