ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U1	Honourable Riigikogu, Question Time begins. First, we'll do a presence check. 42 members of the Riigikogu are present, 59 are missing. The following members of the Government will take part in the Question Hour: Minister of Defence Sven Mikser in the role of Prime Minister, Minister of the Environment Keit Pentus-Rosimannus and Minister of Justice Andres Anvelt. You have the order of the questions. There are five questioners, which means that it is possible to ask questions on the spot in the debate on each topic, in addition to those who have previously registered.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U2	The first question is from Kadri Samson to Secretary of Defense Sven Mikser in the role of Prime Minister. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U3	Thank you. Dear Sven Mikser, who are you today in charge of the Prime Minister's duties! Jüri Käo, Chairman of the Employers' Confederation Council, said to Äripäev last week that autumn is a terrible time for entrepreneurs, because the coalition always lacks some amount, and this problem will then be solved by means of draft laws. Tax changes are foreseen, but there is no inclusion or impact assessment. The tax changes made to implement the budget create a situation where there is no legal clarity on these issues. Can you confirm today that this autumn will be different for entrepreneurs and even for the people of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U4	Thank you. In the view of the government in office, inclusion in all draft laws is extremely important. We certainly want to process all legislative changes, including those concerning the revenue side of the budget, or tax laws, in such a way that the involvement of the parties and the parliamentary debate process are sufficient. This will help to prevent legislative errors that cause some setbacks, whether they are not declared by the President or problems after the law has been enforced. There is no doubt that when planning spending responsibly, the revenue side of the budget must also be critically looked at. This means that all expenditure planned for the budget must be covered by revenue. The current government coalition looked critically at both the revenue and expenditure side of the budget when taking office, drafting a coalition agreement and planning measures there. But the fact is, this year's budget was adopted at the end of last year, and this was done by the previous government coalition. The changes we are going to make concern, in particular, the budgets for the coming years, including the budget for next year, which is now being drawn up, can be said, at one of the hottest stages.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U5	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U6	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister is doing his duties. The newly created coalition reduced taxes and increased subsidies. However, we are now in a situation where Estonia's GDP fell by 1.9% in the first quarter compared to a year ago. We know that economic growth will have a bearing on tax receipts, which is why in 2015 there will be particular pressure on the revenue of the state budget. What steps has the government taken to ensure that revenue from next year's state budget is planned responsibly? What has been done with the cut-down plan sent by the Minister of Finance to the ministries in January?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U7	Thank you. I'll start at the end of the question. A certain part of this cut-off plan has been included in the coalition agreement and will certainly be implemented in the next year's state budget. Speaking of the recession in the first quarter, it must be said that there is no doubt that the government must keep an eye on the economic cycles and be prepared to make rapid changes in the budgetary process. When we talk about growth in the first quarter, which was 1.9%, it is a published real growth indicator, or inflation-adjusted figure. Real growth and tax receipts have no connection between one and the other. For example, if we look at the April tax receipts, this figure was +12% compared to a year ago. However, it is clear that economic growth has a bearing on tax receipts as well. When it comes to the relation between real growth and nominal growth, it can be said that the correlation between real growth and nominal growth was not absolute in the first quarter. We will also certainly keep an eye on the fact that the potential change in tax receipts does not jeopardise the principle of budgetary balance. In particular, the Minister of Finance will undoubtedly monitor it, but so will the entire cabinet.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U8	Kadri Simson, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U9	Dear Sven Mikser! On 7 March, you promised on Facebook that you would raise the question at the beginning of the government talks about whether the reduction of the personal income tax rate is currently responsible. The reduction in the tax rate is still included in the coalition agreement, despite your earlier opposition. This is quite costly and, at the same time, a promise to increase the inequality of net incomes. Will the reduction of the personal income tax rate next year be a responsible activity based on the economic indicators of the first quarter?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U10	Thank you. The answer to this question requires a very personal assessment. It is probably not a great surprise to you that the Social Democratic Party and the Reform Party did not aim to reconcile their programming positions at the coalition talks. This was not our aim, it did not happen, and it will certainly not happen in the future. We maintain differences of opinion with a good coalition partner as to which tax changes and which overall structure of state revenue by tax is optimal and also the most socially equitable. These differences are well known to you. When we talk about reducing income tax by 1% from the beginning of next year, it was written into the law right several years ago. Despite the tight coalition talks, the compromise point was that the tax reform that was already written in law and will enter into force on 1 January next year will not be abandoned. This was a compromise, just as a very large part of the coalition agreement was a compromise. But we don't look at the coalition agreement, of course, as a zero sum game where someone wins and someone loses just as much. I believe our coalition agreement is the sum of a good coalition agreement. It works for the benefit of all the people of Estonia and helps solve many of the problems that have been solved for a very long time, for example, it helps to combat child poverty.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U11	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U12	Thank you very much. Mr Sven Mikser! A week ago, I asked Prime Minister Clothe the same question, but I did not get an answer and I am therefore asking you now. We would have received more money in the state budget if we had not hidden and changed the number of poor people from Brussels. In the spring, we gave Brussels figures on how many poor we have. We said that there are 45,000 people living in absolute poverty in Estonia, but according to Statistics Estonia, there are nearly 120,000 of them. We also have 233000 people living in relative poverty. Now we will receive less money for seven years in a row because we denied the large number of our poor. Has this been discussed in the government, and are you going to do something about it? It's still a shame we're distorting data like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U13	This is definitely your somewhat subjective assessment that the data has been distorted. In addition to the guidelines given by the European Union, it is necessary for each country to have its own criteria on the basis of which this assistance is shared when it comes to the distribution of EU food aid or the resources allocated to it and the criteria on which it is based. In Estonia, this criterion is the receipt of income support. True, the planned circle of beneficiaries is in fact somewhat larger than the recipients of income support alone, including people who have applied for income support, but who are not entitled to it for reasons arising from Estonian law. The number we're talking about today is around 45,000 people. Undoubtedly, poverty is a problem in Estonia and combating it should be a priority for every Estonian government. This is certainly very important for the current government. Of course, European Union food aid is not the only measure that can combat poverty in Estonia. It is rather an acute poverty alleviation measure, not a measure that will help people to emerge from poverty in the long term. But it is certainly important and necessary relief for people living in deep poverty. Therefore, Estonia needs to share this aid in the most sensible and best way and to set the priorities very carefully when sharing it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U14	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U15	Thank you. Prime Minister, today. Your previous answer was very evasive and nonspeakable, maybe you can answer me more specifically. Due to the actions of the reform party-led government, the economy is, as we know, in a serious decline. We are at a lower level than Latvians and Lithuanians with our 2%, even Russia is now developing faster. As your predecessor's defense minister, who belonged to the IRL, promised and tried or at least wanted to increase the cost of defence. How do you now view the proposal of this party, who is your former friend? Are you increasing the cost of protection in the budget, or has it not been discussed?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U16	If we recall the last few years and think about the activities of my immediate predecessor, then it must be said that after Estonia's defence spending reached this much-spoken line, 2% of GDP, the government has not foreseen an increase in defence spending in its budgetary plans. My predecessor reported a sudden increase in defence expenditure and a need after leaving office. But certainly, in a changed security situation, national defence is an extremely important priority. There is certainly a need to finance the provision of sufficient resources to enable national defence to be planned in the long term and to organise large-scale procurement of defence equipment and equipment. One of the fastest and most easily agreed principles in the current government coalition agreement is that defence expenditure is kept at least 2% of GDP. If you ask for my personal opinion, I think it is certainly possible to raise this level somewhat and temporarily. We know that, for example, the presence of allies on Estonia's soil and our region in general has increased greatly because of the events in Ukraine, and Estonia, as a host country, has a financial obligation here too. Doing so at the expense of long-term plans, without knowing exactly what the final decision on continuation and long-term measures is, would not be entirely reasonable. It is therefore absolutely necessary to negotiate whether the costs associated with the obligations of the host country could be regarded as exceptional. I have raised this issue in my dealings with both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. However, when we are talking about a long-term and tangible increase in any cost line, I think that the maker of such a proposal should certainly supply the sources of cover for this proposal, i.e. look at the cost and revenue side of the budget together.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U17	Thank you. Honourable Riigikogu! At the beginning of Question Time, the President informed you that he would be able to ask two questions on the spot. I therefore apologise for Peter Võsta and Andrus Ansip, and I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U18	The next questioner is Andrus Island. The question is for the Minister of the Environment, Keit Pentus-Rosimud. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Minister of the Environment! Chapter 2.7 of the Nature Conservation Development Plan for 2020 provides that by 2014 compensation measures for forest restrictions will have to be implemented outside Natura 2000 sites. With the establishment of the Nabala protected area, the size of this area extends by several thousand hectares. Today, principles have not been developed or, at least, we have not heard from them. As far as we know, the money isn't designed for this either. There should be no additional burden on forest owners before this measure is implemented. I would like to know what the timetable for implementing this measure is and whether these amounts are planned for the budget in the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U20	Thank you, Honourable Asker. I have to apologize first, because somehow it was a very bad question to hear. But I realized that the question concerned the creation of the Nabala Reserve and its connection to the compensation mechanism in the Natura sites. If we are talking about the protection of Nabala-Tuhala, we certainly do not have a plan to expand Natura sites in this regard. The Nabala-Tuhala Protected Area is an area of national protection. In particular, a sensitive water regime needs protection in the region. But there are also 53 protected species in this region. As regards Natura so-called forest payments and arable land payments, they are paid through the rural development plan. This development plan could, of course, have been approved and adopted by now, but the Minister for Agriculture of the new government received this plan in such a way that he too needed to work on it. At the next meeting of the government office, which will take place tomorrow, the government will discuss the rural development plan, which will, of course, also include the Natura forest support and farmland support measure. After that, we may be able to say that principles have been agreed. But once again, the Nabala-Tuhala Reserve does not mean a new Natura site, but a national nature reserve.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U21	Andrus Island, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U22	Thank you. I'll go from here. In Estonia, as we know, half of all forest land is a state forest. In the same way as in a private forest, there are suitable habitats for species in need of protection. For some reason, private forests are preferred for the protection of the same type of habitats in the Nabala reserve, although the state forest is adjacent to private forests and meets the same criteria as the private forest. Moreover, part of the state land, which has a water protection significance, is completely excluded from the protection area as an example of the island bog. This is despite the fact that the public is told that the protected area has a very large water protection objective. Why is it not designed to protect the public interest to use state land and private land is protected in cases of equal location and association? After all, private owners are not entitled to compensation for strict claims other than compensation for land tax benefits.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U23	Thank you. In general, this principle is that value can be protected where it exists. If it is possible to choose whether to protect an object or species in need of protection on public or private land, there is, of course, no desire or reason to impose any additional restrictions on the use of private land. As regards the Nabala-Tuhala protected area, its creation has been underway since 2010. There's been a lot of analysis and expertise. The latest analysis was a composite analysis, which weighed all the underlying data. If you consider that the boundaries of the protected area should be different and rather the area should be larger, then there is still a possibility of such a proposal. Public discussions on the protected area are still ongoing and will also review the boundaries and their justification. If such a proposal is to be considered. If it appears that this proposal is justified and that it is necessary to extend the boundaries of the protected area, this proposal should be included in the protection rules.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U24	A second point of detail, Andrus Island, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U25	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. In your words, you have ruled out the Nabala Reserve, which is to be built through Rail Baltic. But, for example, the forests on the edge of Kohila village have many of the exact same species that Nabalas is planning to protect strictly. In addition, at the edge of the village there is one of the first category of nature reserve species, which is the only breeding area in Estonia. However, Nabala is not the only place of growth or residence of any species. Let's cross-reference the karst areas. In the neighborhood of Kohila village, they are much more representative than Nabalas, due to the proximity to the Rabivere bog of the nature reserve. Therefore, if Rail Baltic cannot go through Nabala, or you have ruled out route 10, then according to the same logic, it should also be excluded from route 12. If you have acted so resolutely in defending the established Nabala Reserve, can it be assumed that your principles are just as principled as other natural communities and karst areas, which I have mentioned, for example? Or do you prefer to protect those areas where political professionalism can be better cut?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U26	Thank you. First of all, you were wrong to say that, for political reasons, it is impossible to establish a Rail Baltic route to the Nabala protected areas. Once again, preparations for the creation of a protected area in a particular region have been made since 2010. At that time, there was no mention of Rail Baltic or of possible routes with such precision. I do not agree, in principle, with the presentation that if we want to take a train from Tallinn to Warsaw, the only way is to build a railroad through Tuhala and Nabala. In my opinion, this is a wrong and really distorting approach. It's as good as if we said it was necessary to build a road from Kadriorg to Haabersti, and the only way to do it is across Town Hall Square. This alternative cannot be presented to people; it is simply not fair. However, all expert analyses of Nabala's natural values are available on the website of the Ministry of the Environment. They're completely public. Once again, it is precisely a sensitive water regime that needs comprehensive protection, particularly in Nabala and Thousanda. That's expert judgment. This is why it cannot be said that it is the Minister for the Environment that has ruled out the construction of this railway in Nabala and Tuhala, because such a proposal has been made by experts in his area in this analysis, which is available to everyone. But I am really asking the public not to make statements that distort reality and, in my opinion, above all, serve this purpose in order to instigate people against nature conservation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U27	Marko Pomerants, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U28	Thanks! Minister, thank you very much. Perhaps you have bad memories of, for example, drilling a dentist in a young generation or studying at a later stage of your life. But how do you explain, as a princely groundwater defender, that as owner of the Estonian Geology Centre, you have left the centre in a position where they did not yet have a groundwater monitoring agreement for 2014 last week? They should carry out this monitoring and this should be the subject of an agreement in May. That's another thing. If you are such a princely defender of karst areas, why have you not launched the campaign 'We are taking up the Tallinn Railway'? For example, in Lääne-Virumaa, it passes at least two very representative karst areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U29	Thank you. The reference to the need for groundwater protection is entirely appropriate. By the way, the initial strategic environmental assessment programme of the Rail Baltic route, which was sent to the Ministry of the Environment during the previous Minister of Economic Affairs for initial coordination, was forgotten about the need to analyse the protection of groundwater throughout the entire length of the route. This was one reason why this programme could not be approved at that time. Since basically the entire route, groundwater is the main source of human drinking water, this is not the way to view it. So if you meet the former Minister for Economic Affairs, who has later criticised why this programme was not approved at the outset, please say that this is one reason. Ground water needs protection, not only in one or two regions, but certainly throughout Estonia. As regards the specific agreement, it is necessary to specify the reasons for the delay in concluding the agreement with the Geology Centre. There must be some technical reasons, and it'll probably be done as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U30	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U31	Thank you. Dear Minister, My question concerns Natura payments for forest and arable land. However, as far as I know, there is less money planned in the rural development plan than potential applicants could be in the next period. The state budget strategy does not provide additional resources in the state budget either. Is it like this or not? Please, confirm! Secondly, Natura payments to landowners are compensation for the loss of some of their income as a result of management restrictions. This loss of income is very different for forest owners, for example. The income loss for an 80-year-old spruce forest or bush varies dozens of times, but the compensation is the same. Is there any plan to change that order?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U32	Thank you. I guess you can answer that last question better by yourself. You know whether such plans have been developed over time in the Ministry of Agriculture and how far they were when you left that house. But it is very heartwarming to listen to such collusion for semi-natural communities and also for Natura forest support from the rural development plan, because we broke the peaks quite strongly and in part during the government meeting on this subject. The situation with private forest support is that, as far as I am aware, the rate of this support in the rural development plan has not been changed. It shall be EUR 110 per hectare in the target zone, EUR 60 per hectare in the restricted zone and in the storage area. However, compared to the very first draft, the total amount that can be paid out for private forest subsidies has been slightly increased. As this debate is just ahead of us tomorrow, I would be a little unfair if I expressed my final views here before the debate takes place. Let's wait for tomorrow's debate. I am afraid that no one can, of course, be fully satisfied with the result that has finally been achieved with the draft rural development plan. After all, I would always like more opportunities, and I would also like subsidies to be higher than they allow. But I think that all of this is really quite well balanced and that it has made maximum use of the opportunities that the European Union's resources offer us.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U33	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U34	The next member of the Riigikogu who announced his wish to ask last day is Helir-Valdor Seeder. This is about the Prime Minister's duties for Secretary of Defense Sven Mikser. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U35	Thank you. I was going to ask Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, who was still Minister of Social Affairs two months ago, but as a member of the government you are certainly competent to answer that question. Until that year, the Ministry of Agriculture organised the distribution of food aid through the PRIA. The amount of the food aid application to be submitted to the European Union was determined as necessary and in cooperation with the aid organisations. In 2013, food aid was distributed in Estonia for 2.7 million euros. Since this year, food aid is handled by the Ministry of Social Affairs, which reduced the food aid application to the European Union twice. This application is valid until 2020. This figure was confirmed by the current government by the RES and no additional funding is planned for the next four years, apart from the mandatory minimum to be allocated from the state budget. Why did they do that? Has the Estonian people become twice as rich overnight? How do you explain that according to the Ministry of Social Affairs, the number of people in need is twice that of the Ministry of Agriculture, who received these data in cooperation with the aid organisations?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U36	Thank you, Honourable Asker. As much as I would like, the Estonian people have certainly not become twice as rich overnight. As you know, the European Commission has introduced new measures on the basis of the principle that people who are either living in deep material deprivation or in a household with very low job intensity, i.e. in households where working-age people work less than 20% of the possible nominal working time, may receive assistance. There are certainly much more people living in such households in Estonia than there are food aid recipients. According to the memory, there were 120000 people in Estonia last year with a deep material deprivation of the first criterion, and just over 90,000 people lived in a household with very low job intensity. I'm sure there's an overlap here, that's a little over 30,000. However, in addition, Member States have the right and also the obligation to clearly define the criteria under which food aid is to be distributed. As I said in my reply to one of the previous questioners, this criterion is the receipt of income support in Estonia. It is true that food aid can also be granted to people who have applied for income support, but for certain legal reasons, they will not be paid such support. A clear criterion is undoubtedly necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U37	Helir-Valdor Seeder has the right to ask two more specific questions when he signals this wish. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U38	Thank you. The food aid application submitted to the European Union did not, in my opinion, take into account the reality of Estonia, which has evolved over the years. Nor can we correct this error in the next seven years of the funding period, because the budget has been approved. But it is not at all the fault of the current Minister for Social Affairs; these decisions were taken during the time of Minister for Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas. It is particularly strange that, while this year's possibilities for assistance were extended in terms of the variety of food products and also in terms of essential consumer goods are now eligible, Estonia nevertheless reduced its application. Participation in the aid programme is not a shame or a thrill, as it also involves countries that are many times richer than us, such as Italy, France and others. What happens next? Is the government prepared to change the RES and plan additional national resources for 2015 so that the problem raised sharply by aid organisations and the media can be alleviated?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U39	Thank you. As I said earlier, there must be criteria. Indeed, the data of Statistics Estonia alone cannot be the basis for these criteria, as the distribution of aid must also be clearly traceable and verifiable. The criteria also need to be met by local authorities, so that people can still get help. The statistics on relative and absolute poverty, which are households or individuals in particular need of help, certainly do not show. European countries have responded differently to the food aid measure or its operational programme. Some countries have decided not to make use of these opportunities for food distribution in the coming period. However, as food aid from the Structural Funds cannot be provided, Estonia has decided to use the funds of this measure to distribute food aid. I have been assured that the negotiations were intended to ensure that the total amount of aid would not decrease during the period. However, as regards the promotion of employment or the mitigation of the situation of people living in low-employment households, the Structural Funds in particular should be used for this purpose, which cannot be used to provide food aid.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U40	Helir-Valdor Seeder, the second point to be specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U41	Thank you. In previous years, Estonia's application was not based solely on dry statistical data, but was based on the need in cooperation with aid organisations. But the problem is not only about money, but also about the organisational capacity of the Ministry of Social Affairs. Since the possibilities for helping the Fund have changed, and the Ministry of Social Affairs is planning to change the funding rules, in my opinion these rules are bureaucratic and not very reasonable, the Estonian Red Cross, the Estonian Association of Children's Rich Families, the Estonian Food Bank and other organisations who have been involved in the distribution of aid were not informed in due time. They are also not involved in the decision-making process. Compulsory procurement is not announced and will not take place in the near future. Does the programme even apply this year, given that it is an international procurement which must be followed by the conclusion of a contract and a number of other procedures?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U42	The little that I, as Minister of Defence responsible for the Prime Minister's duties today, can certainly be done to ensure that all the proposed aid programmes are implemented in a timely manner and that all the funds provided for in the budget are used in a targeted way. Of course, neither this government nor any government official or minister, not to mention the people who are working directly with those in need, is based on dry statistics, but precisely on the objective that specific assistance can reach the people most in need in a way that will help these people in the best way. A good colleague of the Minister for the Environment recalled discussions with you in the previous government; I cannot use this luxury. What you did not say clearly to the previous Minister for Social Affairs, you will certainly be able to speak with the current Prime Minister in future briefings. You can explain what Estonia requested from the aid organisations during the previous government and which plans and assumptions were based on when submitting these applications. We certainly want to work to ensure that all those in need get help. As far as the capacity of the Ministry of Social Affairs is concerned, in the current government, the Ministry of Social Affairs, as an extraordinarily specialised and labour-intensive ministry, has been divided into two ministers, one of whom deals with family and coping issues, and the other can focus more on work and health issues. I believe that this will allow a very focused approach both to the subject you have raised and to the other issues of the very extensive administration of the Ministry of Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U43	Andrus Ansip, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U44	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! As far as I know, the European Commission has always been based on Eurostat data in the distribution of food aid funds between Member States. Was there another principle used this time? Was it really the principle of how much you ask, how little you get, and if you ask little, you can't at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U45	Absolutely not. The European Commission will, of course, monitor Eurostat's data on people who live, as I said, either in a very low-intensity household or in conditions of deep material deprivation. Eurostat also has very specific parameters. Nine indicators have been developed. If four indicators show that a person is unable to afford certain benefits for economic reasons, he is considered to be a living person under conditions of deep material deprivation. As has been said, if working-age members of the household are not employed more than 20% of the possible working time, this is a low-interest household. If someone has tried to paint a picture, as if Estonia had been offered great money, which Estonia gave up, trying to lie to itself more wealthy than it really is, then I can assure you with absolute certainty that this is not the case. This guilt certainly cannot be put on the shoulders of either the present or the previous Minister for Social Affairs or the government. If the question is whether Estonia wants to look more beautiful than it really is, then I think we have no reason to try to do so. We certainly have socio-economic indicators, for which there is much room for improvement, and we will continue to receive much support from European Union funds and aid measures in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U46	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U47	The next questioner is Valeri Korb and the question is the Minister of the Environment Keit Pentus-Rosimethus.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U48	Thank you. Madam Minister! There are more than ten chemical companies in the Kohtla-Järve territory that pollute external air to a greater or lesser extent. As a result, the city's territory is constantly scented with unpleasant smells. However, the polluters cannot be identified because they are probably a combination of pollutants. I would like to know how to prosecute companies for possible synergies.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U49	Thank you. This is indeed the case that it is very difficult to identify the sources of pollution causing the combined effect, as each individual source may not be identifiable separately. However, companies that have been authorised to emit pollutants generally also have an environmental permit. Compliance with the requirements set out in this permit can be verified and done by the Environmental Inspectorate. In addition to environmental permit, these companies usually have an action plan to reduce fragrances, which provides for specific activities. Not all companies may or may not have these action plans at present. But this is certainly an example of what we will demand more in the future. If there is an action plan, the activities it provides will certainly be under the control of the inspection. It must be said that in the area where this interaction occurs, a single misdemeanour procedure has also been initiated against a single public limited company.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U50	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U51	Thank you for your answer. I have another question. Due to the law on ambient air protection, supervision is carried out by the Environmental Inspectorate, which unfortunately has not yet been able to identify a specific polluter. In this case, is the Environmental Inspectorate powerless?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U52	Thank you. I wouldn't say that the Environmental Inspectorate is powerless. The Environmental Inspectorate can and must verify compliance with the established requirements. As far as the Kohtla-Järve area is concerned, the state continuously monitors the state of the ambient air, specifically at an air monitoring station on Kalevi street. In addition, the Environmental Inspectorate will verify the legality of the activities of industrial companies, in line with the same environmental permit requirements. I said earlier that a proceeding has been initiated against a public limited company. The inspection has also found that the best available technology requirement has been breached and that the ambient air limit values have not been met. In that case, the inspectorate must intervene, and he will. But I'll come back to the last question for a second. I also stress the role of the municipality. The municipalities are clearly in a dual role at the same time. On the one hand, they regularly report to the inspection the concerns and complaints of the inhabitants of the region, on the other, they process requests for expansion of air-polluting companies. I think that local governments have the opportunity to demand and put to the heart of businesses to avoid neglecting the issue of air pollution. Of course, in the case of synergies, it is the Environmental Board who analyses the resulting interaction and sets conditions when issuing permits.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U53	Please, Valeri Korb, the second point to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U54	Thank you! But I'm gonna ask you a third question. We believe that ambient air measurements should be stepped up in Kohtla-Järve territory, and measurement sites should be prepared so that each polluter can be checked separately. To this end, there must be a national programme and it must be financed by the State. Is it hoped that such a programme will come and that the state will provide financial support for its creation? We are of the opinion that the pollution charges paid should return to the region where the environment is being damaged. Unfortunately, Ida-Viru County will only recover 8% of what we pay there.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U55	Thank you. I do not think that air surveillance is a major problem and should, above all, contribute to the expansion of continuous air surveillance. The Environmental Inspectorate, in cooperation with the Centre for Environmental Research, has taken the situation of ambient air to its attention. For example, a long-term analysis of Muuga is being completed. On this basis, specific conclusions can be drawn with regard to businesses on the ground. Besides Sillamäe, it is probably practical to do such a thing in the Kohtla-Järve region. I agree with that. But as regards the pretty common perception or claim that Ida-Virumaa companies pay a large amount of environmental charges, but the money that returns as investments in the region is considerably lower, the situation is actually exactly the opposite. I've taken out investments in recent years through the Environmental Investment Center. This amount is slightly over EUR 140 million. If the annual budget of the Environmental Investment Centre is between EUR 30 million and EUR 40 million, you will understand that the volume of investments made in Ida-Viru County has been very large. We have still been able to channel such large sums of money there, thanks in particular to the European Union's money. A few examples. Naturally, the closure of semi-coke landfills has been a very expensive and necessary project, but the same can be said of Narva water project, reconstruction of water supply and sewerage systems in Sillamäe, Kohtla-Järve water supply system, Kiviõli water management, Narva-Jõesuu water management. These have all been very substantial investments that have gone to Ida-Virumaa through the Environmental Investment Centre.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U56	Peter Võsa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U57	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, We have had a very thorough and long debate here, which at times has become very detailed. But believe me, everything you've talked about doesn't give a shit about a regular Kohtla-Järve person. He's interested in the date when the Kohtla-Järve doesn't smell any more. Please say the date!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U58	Thank you. This day will come after the pollution that is being emitted by all companies that, at the moment alone, fulfil the conditions, but whose activity as a whole disturbs the people on the ground, is also in combination below the standards, so that it does not really disturb people. By the way, one more problem is that, for example, Muuga's situation confirms that companies do not violate these criteria either individually or in combination. Sadly, human perception is much more sensitive to the unpleasant smell. It is likely that there is a need and a reason to revise the criteria. Although there may not be a direct health risk even in areas where there are many complaints, this does not mean that it is not inconvenient to be there every day. I think that not only compliance with the criteria needs to be analysed, but also the criteria need to be reviewed and possibly changed in a more rigorous direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U59	Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U60	Thank you. Unfortunately, Minister, we did not hear that date. I'd love to know that. But have you yourself been to the area and smelled it? Would you be willing to live in an area where the problem has not lasted for months or years, but for decades? Would you go live there?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U61	Thank you. I have chosen Tallinn as my place of residence, and I have done so like my grandparents and parents. My grandparents have already lived in Tallinn, and that is why my roots have been deep grounded in Tallinn and why I have built my home here. But, of course, I've been to the area and I'm fully aware of people's resentment. I think that resentment is justified. They themselves, in the course of the debate, stress the other side of the matter that companies that operate locally are still employing, which enables people to work near their homes. But it doesn't compensate for the inconvenience that air pollution causes. That's why we've gone under the radar in this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U62	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U63	The next questioner is Aivar Chef. The question is for Secretary of Defense Sven Mikser, who is in charge of the Prime Minister today. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U64	Good manager! Good minister! On 30 April, the Minister of Finance submitted a draft law amending the Road Act to coordinate, abolishing the principle of 75% of the money received from excise duties on fuel for the maintenance of roads. Although the draft explanatory memorandum thus aims to achieve more flexible planning of the state budget, it is evident that the real incentive for this change is the Government's desire to take money from roads to honour the naked promises made in the coalition agreement. On 29 April, the government approved a state budget strategy with EUR 25 million less money for road maintenance than the current Road Act. Do you support this bill, which loses stability in the financing of road safety, and you want to go down in history as a member of the government who cannot find the means to maintain roads?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U65	Thank you, Honourable Asker. When negotiating the coalition agreement, both parties to the coalition, of course, undertook both the expenditure provided for in the coalition agreement and the sources of its cover. There are two ways to cover expenditure: to find revenue or to reduce other costs. In this sense, your claim that this was an unprotected promise does not hold true, because you yourself have already described the source of the cover. But more seriously, yes, the purpose of the draft law that you have mentioned in the coordination is greater budgetary flexibility, which means that the expenditure relating to a specific revenue item will be strictly decoupled from a specific revenue item. Yes, it may mean that the road safety plan needs to be reviewed. The Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications has confirmed that he will bring this issue to the cabinet's desk in the near future. At the same time, decoupling a specific cost from a specific revenue does not necessarily imply a reduction in expenditure. The Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications has also been very clear in negotiating the budget strategy for the re-increase of road-saving funds in the budget from 2016 onwards to reach EUR 308 million by 2018.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U66	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U67	Thank you. Here's the next question. Did you support it and, if so, why did you support the proposal to endorse the budgetary strategy for reducing road funding by EUR 25 million next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U68	I am convinced that in a country's budgetary strategy, expenditure and revenue must be planned in a responsible and realistic manner. Each coalition agreement certainly reflects, in a sense, the political preferences of this coalition, but also the objective needs and opportunities of the state. From your party partners, I have heard in recent weeks the desire to significantly increase the number of spending items compared to what is currently planned in the budget strategy. Apart from road-saving money, there has also been talk of a significant increase in the financing of the rural development plan, as well as the need for a significant increase in defence spending which is very close to my heart. Sekka has also said some reflections on the question that perhaps budget expenditure is planned too optimisticly and should be reviewed as a whole. Undoubtedly, while in opposition, one can afford to express a desire to significantly limit costs and, at the same time, to talk to the other side about the need to increase a number of spending items by tens and some even by hundreds of millions of euros. It is not possible for a responsible executive to afford it. However, in order to avoid undue panic, it is certainly important to mention that the resources allocated to local authorities for the provision of tea are not reduced. There can certainly be no cut-off at the expense of the quality of road care.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U69	I understand that Aivar Kokk wishes to ask a second point of clarification. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U70	Thank you for your very good answers. It was just the problem of how things are on the side of local governments. Most members of the Riigikogu have been concerned about this and fought out that 5% has become 10%. But maybe you can say this. EUR 25 million will be reduced next year by road funding. What sections or nodes could be missed next year because there is much less money on roads?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U71	As has been said, this possible change in budgetary resources does not concern local authorities. But there may be a need to review the road plan as a whole. As I said in a previous reply, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications has promised to bring this matter into the government office. I believe that then we will certainly be able to provide more concrete answers. But I know that you and a couple of colleagues have submitted an inquiry to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications as the Minister directly responsible for the field. I believe that if I say this, by memory, the inquiry submitted on 7 May will arrive at the answer to the large hall, then you will also be able to get more detailed answers about the specific sections of the road or objects that this review might touch.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U72	Thank you. It's 1:58. The question and the answer would no longer fit within the framework of our time. Question Time is over. I'm sorry about Tarmo Tammelt and Siim Kiisler!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U73	Honourable Riigikogu! The session of the 15th working week of the VII plenary session will open on Wednesday. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. No one has a wish. Then you have to check your presence. 71 members of the Riigikogu are present, 30 is missing. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U74	My card didn't react. I tried to tell you, but I wasn't noticed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U75	What an unobservable manager! We must now repeat the presence check. Please, let's do a new presence check! 78 members of the Riigikogu are now present and no 23. There is one clarification on the agenda. In fact, at the debate on item 15 of today's agenda, the draft law on collective agreement and resolution of collective labour dispute initiated by the Government of the Republic at first reading 623, the initiator will make a presentation by Minister Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U76	Let us move on to today's agenda items. The third reading of draft Act 621 on the amendment of the Veterinary Organisation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws begins. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The Commission's proposal is to put the draft to the final vote on 621; I will also signal it. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Veterinary Organisation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and in this connection amending other laws. Please take a stand and vote. There are 79 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft 621 as a law, and there are no opponents or abstentions. The draft law amending the Veterinary Law and related amendments to other laws has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U77	The next item is the third reading of the draft Act amending § 6 of the Estonian Flag Act initiated by the National Defence Committee. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The Commission has proposed that the draft be put to the final vote today. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending § 6 of the Estonian Flag Act, which was initiated by the National Defence Committee, 597. Please take a stand and vote. There are 77 pagans in favour of adopting the draft law as a law, there are no opposed or impartial. The Act amending § 6 of the Estonian Flag Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U78	The next item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Foreign Professional Qualifications Recognition Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The Commission has proposed to put the draft to the final vote on 590. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Foreign Professional Qualifications Recognition Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 590. Please take a stand and vote. There are 76 pagans in favour of adopting the draft law as a law, and there are no opposers or abstentions. The Act amending the Foreign Professional Qualifications Recognition Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U79	The next item is the third reading of the draft Act amending the Act on the Settlement of Individual Labour Disputes, the Law on Health and Safety at Work and the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The commission has proposed that the draft be put to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Act on the Settlement of Individual Labour Disputes initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Law on Health and Safety at Work and the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act 580. Please take a stand and vote. There are 76 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the adoption of the draft as 580 law, and there are no opponents or abstentions. The Act amending the Individual Labour Dispute Resolution Act, the Health and Safety at Work Act and the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U80	The third reading of the draft Act amending the VAT Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I'm opening negotiations. Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U81	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Under conditions where we certainly need to finance a great many good things, but money, as always, does not have enough, the fight against tax holes is extremely necessary and requires attention. We do not deny the importance of this draft, because it will certainly help to reduce tax gaps in one area a little, but it also raises a number of questions in us. Interestingly, it is as if the tax office with one tax hole wanted to fight, but even though everyone knows other places where taxes are not paid completely, the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Office do not understand this in any way. As the draft envisaged a specific VAT regime for precious metals and precious stones, the reverse charge was introduced there, the Central Party Group tabled an amendment that would have included metal products on this list. On this issue, we have been approached by a number of entrepreneurs who are paying taxes honestly. They were very concerned that very large amounts of VAT fraud are being committed in metal products. On this basis, the Central Party Group has proposed an amendment to include metal products in this list. We were thinking, above all, of construction metals, dashboards, etc. On 11 April, Äripäev also published an article giving a fairly precise overview of the construction market, the use of construction structures and related tax fraud. However, in the course of the Commission's debate, the initiator, or representative of the Ministry of Finance, did not support this proposal, giving astonishing reasons. For example, the first reason why the Ministry of Finance did not support our proposal was because metal structures in construction are a new group of goods. Well, of course it's new! I would remind you that for years everyone knew about and talked about tax fraud with fuel, but it took two or three years before a legislative amendment was implemented that helped reduce the tax fraud with fuel. This amendment was later very happy, but for some reason it took a very long time to talk about it. Tax fraud involving construction metal has also been under discussion for several years. But now it is said that one reason why this amendment cannot be implemented is that it is a new group of goods. The second argument was that there is no overview of this market. Well, it turns out neither the Ministry of Finance nor the IRS reads the papers at all. If they had read Äripäev on 11 April, you would have gotten a pretty clear view. Maybe somebody should tell them to read some papers sometime. The third reason, also very amazing, was that the tax administration had not observed any significant tax fraud. Well, then he just doesn't do his job properly! So we are very sorry that the amendment tabled by the Central Party Group on metal products was not taken into account. The Tax Administration and the Ministry of Finance probably expect the share of tax fraud to reach 100% in this area, so maybe they'll start moving. But my presentation does not mean that the Centre Party Group does not support the draft. One of the taxholes associated with the precious metal can be shut down by means of it. But I wanted to point out once again that there are other places of tax fraud that everyone knows except the IRS and the Treasury Department. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U82	There's no more calls. The commission has proposed to put the draft to a final vote on 626. Let's start preparing it. Honourable Riigikogu, I vote on the draft Act amending the VAT Act initiated by the Government of the Republic 626. Please take a stand and vote. There are 69 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting bill 626 as a law, and there are no opposed or impartial parties. The Act amending the VAT Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U83	The next item is the third reading of Draft Act 615 amending the Law on Medicines and the Law on the Organisation of Health Services, initiated by the Committee on Social Affairs. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Centre Party Group, please, Marika Tuus-Laul. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U84	Ladies and gentlemen, The Estonian Centre Party has long held that medicines are not a commodity like any other, and any commercial interests should not go beyond matters concerning human health. We believe that freedom to conduct a business is not the ultimate and only value in society when a person's life is at stake. The Supreme Court has held radically different views about the restrictions on the establishment of pharmacies throughout the ages. The current composition of the Supreme Court thinks that restrictions on the establishment of pharmacies hinder the freedom to conduct business and are contrary to the Constitution, but in the judgment of the Supreme Court a few years ago the protection of health was considered a priority fundamental right from the freedom to conduct business. However, excessive competition can seriously undermine the protection of health, as it reduces access to medicines in the countryside and leads to a deterioration in the quality of service in the city. The Supreme Court has made such turns in the past. The European Court of Justice has also held that freedom to conduct a business is not a so-called ultimate freedom. It is also worth noting that Chancellor of Justice Indrek Teder, whose action was now granted by the Supreme Court, once thought quite the opposite as a sworn advocate. It was he who made the draft law on restrictions on the establishment of pharmacies in 2005 and was in charge of imposing restrictions. We didn't know that that time. The initiator of the law protecting land pharmacies here in the Riigikogu in 2004 was myself. The Commission's draft was subsequently finalised.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U85	I apologize to the waitress! Ladies and gentlemen, please listen!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U86	If we opened the pharmacy market on 9 June in such a way as to remove any restrictions, what would happen then? Businessmen would only pick up their shops in larger cities and occupy places in fancy shopping centres, business streets, where there are still many pharmacies. But a countryman also needs a pharmacy, but no one wants to go to the country to run a pharmacy. After all, the Pharmacy Chain of the Whole Family Apteek recently announced that if the restrictions on establishment disappeared on 9 June and the Riigikogu does not impose any regulation, they want to open 15 general pharmacies in Tallinn and Tartu and are forced to close most of their land pharmacies in the new market situation. To remind you once again that the geographical restrictions on the establishment of pharmacies, which our Supreme Court declared to be contrary to the Constitution, exist in the vast majority of European countries. Geographical restrictions on the establishment of pharmacies and restrictions on ownership (only a pharmacist with higher education) apply in 71% of European countries. In those countries where there are no restrictions, there is a restriction on pharmacy chains, and pharmacies compete only against the so-called one. In Poland, for example, only 1% of the market can be formed by a pharmacy chain. There are no restrictions at all in the Czech Republic, Bulgaria, the Netherlands and Ireland. Estonia would be added to them if we did not keep any restrictions at this time. But unlike all other European countries, in Estonia, a pharmacist, a medicine scientist with higher education, a pharmacist was still not a health worker. That is what we have now decided to change fortunately. If up to now the pharmacy service in Estonia was not a matter of the state, then now it should become one; the state must undertake to ensure the availability of medicines throughout Estonia. Today, we will make these decisions in a consensus, hopefully, but it has not always been that way. We recall that in 1995 the Minister of Social Affairs, Siiri Oviir, imposed restrictions on the ownership of pharmacies. The pharmacy was only allowed to be owned by a pharmacist or a private limited company, the pharmacy chains were banned and the pharmacist was a health care professional. Six months later, the coalition changed and Toomas Vilosius became Minister of Social Affairs. In the middle of the summer an extraordinary session of the Riigikogu was convened, two readings of the draft were made in one day, and anyone could become the owner of the pharmacy, including any shoemaker, there was no mention of professional education. Pharmacy chains began to grow and there were no restrictions until we introduced a restriction on establishment in 2005. Although the Supreme Court declared the restrictions on establishment to be in conflict with the Constitution, it committed the parliament to introducing certain regulations. The previous coalition should have acted faster. Since this was not the case, provisional regulation should be approved today for a year. This is also the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I don't think the market's locked down this year. At the request of the municipality and with the permission of the Medicines Agency, pharmacies can also be made in cities and branch pharmacies can be established anywhere in the country better than before. So if anyone wants to, please! We very much agree that the retail and wholesale distribution of medicines is being separated. There's three years to do this. This wins a patient who receives an independent service. Yes, the larger pharmaceutical companies and their lawyers fighting for their interests are jealously opposed to this separation because there are business interests at stake. However, it is good practice in Europe that wholesale companies do not own pharmacy chains, but we own 150 pharmacies for one company, for example. A pharmacist working at a chain pharmacy must meet the requirements of the wholesaler without dispute, for example, it prefers certain medicines. This chain goes out to the pharmaceutical companies. Still on the principle that the hand washes the hand. The patient only loses it. However, the pharmacist's pharmacy is free in its decisions and recommendations and is based solely on the interests of the patient. In the light of this change, we look forward to a wider range of medicines. Currently, the choice of medicines in Estonia is six times smaller than in Sweden, for example. Although some medicine has a marketing authorisation, you simply can't find it in the pharmacy. We also think that today would be the time to return to the system of pharmacists. Indeed, only a pharmacist with a higher education could be the owner of a pharmacy, so that business interests would go away and fair service would be restored in the interests of our health. Unfortunately, the government did not support this position. But I hope we return to this issue. So let us put aside the economic interests of pharmaceutical companies, wholesale companies and large pharmacies in the current pharmacy war, and let us talk about the health interests of patients and the preservation and addition of country pharmacies and small medicine shops. The Estonian Centre Party supports this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U87	On behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union Jaak Aaviksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U88	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good ambassadors! I guess we agree that the drug is not a common commodity. However, to this day, we have not been able to put this concept into law in such a way that we can be sure that this distinction has been made in such a way that it also meets the principles and requirements of our constitution. That is why we are in a situation where making a decision in a responsible way is difficult. Too much temporary things are happening in our country. Even if we are in a situation where the six-month deadline granted by the Supreme Court to the parliament may be too short, this cannot be a sufficient argument to postpone the substantive decision-making process and adopt another temporary solution. This precedent is not good, but it is difficult for me to say what could be a better solution in this situation. If the draft law is rejected, there will probably be a confusing situation that will harm the interests of very many people in Estonia, and there will be great confusion and injustice in the short term. However, if the law is adopted, there will be uncertainty as to how a citizen should view the Constitution if the legislator itself has not clarified this issue. True, the Social Affairs Committee began this work, had a certain vision, and tried to build a church in the middle of the village. Unfortunately, the different interests and changes in society in the political coalition created a situation where the initial vision for inter-interest groups fell, including massive public manipulation through the media. Now we are in a situation where there are no good solutions. Ladies and gentlemen, There is certainly a need to draw conclusions from this from all parties involved. However, we must not disperse from this in the understanding that we have solved the problem, regardless of how one of us votes. It is also quite clear that the violation of the constitution for another year is obviously excessive. In summer, I guess the government and the Ministry of Social Affairs will have to shorten their leave so that already in autumn something can be started that the voters may be convinced of legal certainty when they press the button. That is why I cannot support this draft unambiguously, nor can IRL Group unambiguously support it. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U89	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The Committee on Social Affairs has proposed that the draft be put to the final vote on 615. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Act amending the Act on Medicines and the Law on the Organisation of Health Services, initiated by the Social Affairs Committee, 615. Please take a stand and vote. There are 45 parliamentarians in favour of adopting bill 615 as a law, 18 against and one against. The draft law amending the Pharmaceutical Act and the Health Services Organisation Act has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U90	The next item is the second reading of draft Act 610 on the ratification of the Final Acts of the 25th Congress of the World Postal Union initiated by the Government of the Republic. For the presentation of the Economic Commission, please address the Chair of the Olga Stranger!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U91	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 10 March and the first reading took place in this Chamber on 9 April. No amendments were tabled by the deadline of 24 April. For the second time, we discussed this draft law in the Committee on Economic Affairs on 12 May. The debate was very short, rather there was no debate, but we simply voted on procedural decisions. The decisions were such: to put the draft to second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 21 May and to propose that the draft be put to the final vote. The decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U92	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The commission has proposed to put the draft to a final vote on 610. Let's start preparing it. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on draft Act 610 on the ratification of the Final Acts of the 25th Congress of the Universal Postal Union initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. There are 57 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft 610 as a law, no one opposed, 1 member of the Riigikogu abstained. The draft law on ratification of the Final Acts of the 25th Congress of the World Postal Union has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U93	The next item is the second reading of the draft law amending the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and amending and implementing the Law on Law Enforcement. The rapporteur for the Economic Commission is Kaja Kallas, chairman of the committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U94	The draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic in January 2014. Between the first and second readings, we received nearly one hundred proposals from the initiator's representative, other government agencies and other persons. Proposals and opinions on this draft were submitted by the Ministry of Social Affairs, Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Heritage, NGO Estonian Association of Construction Entrepreneurs, NGO Estonian Society of Electrical Works Entrepreneurs, NGO Old Town Society, Ministry of the Environment, Ministry of Internal Affairs, Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Education and Research. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the draft before sending it to second reading at its two meetings on 2 May and at its one meeting on 19 May. A debate took place in the Commission during which the draft list of amendments prepared by the group was reviewed. Substantial opinions and proposals which were not directly related to the entry into force of the MSÜS were excluded from the list and which, according to the Working Group, were therefore neither reasonable nor appropriate to be dealt with in the context of the present draft procedure, such as the proposal of the NGO Old Town Society. However, all the material, together with the views of the initiator, had been made available to the members of the committee. A longer discussion arose regarding the proposal of the Estonian Society of Electrical Works Entrepreneurs to maintain the Electricity Safety Act. a the obligation to authorise undertakings engaged in the treatment of electricity, as planned by the Act on the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities, which enters into force on 1 July. On this basis, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications had prepared two alternative options concerning all changes to the technical safety legislation contained in the draft. Specialists also informed the members of the Commission that a draft law on technical safety was currently being prepared by the government, the current concept of which provides for qualification requirements for competent and not for operators in the sector. A longer discussion also arose regarding the proposal of Riigikogu member Tiina Lokk-Tramberg to complete the draft. The proposal would address the concerns of those who have been designated as competent by economic operators without notification, as is the case for construction companies. According to the proposal, the person would have had to add a statement of the economic activity submitted by the company in the future, analogous to the regulation of the Construction Act contained in the draft. Since no one was in favour of this proposal, this proposal will not be put to the vote here. In conclusion, the Commission decided to put the draft on the agenda for the 573 plenary session for a second reading by 21 May. We decided to propose that the second reading be interrupted and that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 14 p.m. on 22 May. Since the bill should enter into force as a law s. a on 1 July, the Commission also took procedural decisions on the continuation of the second reading and on 4 June to close the second reading. When the second reading of the draft is closed, the Commission will propose a third reading on 5 June with a proposal to put the draft to the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U95	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. We need to review the list of amendments. Amendment 1 has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and the amendment has been taken into account. Amendment 2 has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and the amendment has been taken into account. Amendment 3 has been tabled by Tiina Lokk-Tramberg, the Commission has rejected this amendment, but the proposal is not to be voted on pursuant to § 106 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act. Amendment 4 has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and the amendment has been fully taken into account. Amendment 5 has been tabled by Ms Lokk-Tramberg; this amendment was not taken into account by the Commission, but it is not to be voted in plenary. Amendment 6 has been tabled by Ms Lokk-Tramberg; this amendment has been taken into account in substance by the commission. Amendment 7 has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, and this amendment has been fully taken into account by the commission. Amendment 8 has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, and this proposal has been fully taken into account by the commission. Amendment 9 is from the Committee on Economic Affairs; this amendment has been fully taken into account by the commission. Amendment 10 is from the Committee on Economic Affairs and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 11 is from the Committee on Economic Affairs and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 12 is from the Economic Commission and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 13 is from the Committee on Economic Affairs and has been fully taken into account. The 14th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and this amendment has been fully taken into account. Amendment 15 is from the Economic Commission and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 16 is from the Committee on Economic Affairs and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 17 is from the Committee on Economic Affairs and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 18 is from the Committee on Economic Affairs and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 19 is from the Committee on Economic Affairs and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 20 is from the Committee on Economic Affairs and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 21 is from the Economic Commission and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 22 is from the Committee on Rural Affairs and has been taken into account in substance. Amendment 23 is from the Committee on Economic Affairs and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 24 is from the Committee on Rural Affairs and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 25 is from the Committee on Economic Affairs and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 26 is from the Economic Commission and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 27 is from the Committee on Economic Affairs and has been fully taken into account. The 28th proposal is from the Economic Commission and has been fully taken into account. The 29th amendment is from the Committee on Economic Affairs and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 30 is from the Economic Commission and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 31 is from the Economic Commission and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 32 is from the Economic Commission and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 33 is from the Committee on Rural Affairs and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 34 is from the Economic Commission and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 35 is from the Economic Commission and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 36 is from the Economic Commission and has been fully taken into account. The 37th amendment is from the Economic Commission and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 38 is from the Economic Commission and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 39 is from the Economic Commission and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 40 is from the Committee on Economic Affairs and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 41 is from the Economic Commission and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 42 is from the Economic Commission and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 43 is from the Economic Commission and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 44 is from the Committee on Rural Affairs and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 45 is from the Economic Commission and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 46 is from the Economic Commission and has been fully taken into account. The 47th amendment is from the Committee on Economic Affairs and has been fully taken into account. The 48th amendment is from the Committee on Economic Affairs and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 49 is from the Economic Commission and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 50 is from the Committee on Rural Affairs and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 51 is from the Committee on Rural Affairs and has been fully taken into account. The 52nd amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Rural Affairs and has been fully taken into account. The 53rd amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Rural Affairs and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 54 is from the Committee on Economic Affairs and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 55 is from the Economic Commission and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 56 is from the Economic Commission and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 57 is from the Committee on Economic Affairs and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 58 is from the Economic Commission and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 59 is from the Economic Commission and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 60 is from the Economic Commission and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 61 is from the Economic Commission and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 62 is from the Committee on Economic Affairs and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 63 is from the Committee on Rural Affairs and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 64 is from the Economic Commission and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 65 is from the Economic Commission and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 66 is from the Economic Commission and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 67 is from the Economic Commission and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 68 is from the Economic Commission and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 69 is from the Economic Commission and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 70 is from the Economic Commission and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 71 is from the Economic Commission and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 72 is from the Economic Commission and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 73 is from the Committee on Economic Affairs and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 74 is from the Committee on Economic Affairs and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 75 is from the Economic Commission and has been fully taken into account. The 76th amendment is from the Committee on Economic Affairs and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 77 is from the Committee on Economic Affairs and has been fully taken into account. The 78th amendment is from the Committee on Economic Affairs and has been fully taken into account. The 79th amendment is from the Committee on Economic Affairs and has been fully taken into account. The Committee on Economic Affairs has proposed to suspend the second reading of draft 573. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft at 14 May at 22 May. This item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U96	The next item is draft law 619 of the Tallinn University of Technology initiated by the Government of the Republic. Lauri Luige, Chairman of the Committee on Culture, please be a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U97	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will give you an overview of what happened between the first and second reading of the Tallinn University of Technology Act 619. A few words on the background of the draft. With the draft, we establish our own law for Tallinn University of Technology, determine the direction of study and research, and renew the governance structure. The law allows the involvement of persons outside the academic community to a much greater extent in the management of the university. The highest management body in the university will be the Board of Governors and the Council of Academic Decision-making. The university's day-to-day activities are managed by the Rector. The first reading took place on 16 April and the deadline for the submission of amendments, 2 May, no amendments were received by the Commission. However, the Tallinn University of Technology and the Ministry of Education and Research sent their additional proposals to the Committee on Culture. For its part, the Commission asked about the draft opinion of the Council of Rectors, the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu and the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. In his letter, the Council of Rectors replied that they supported the planned management innovations. At the same time, they consider it important that the activities of universities are clearly defined at law level. The Estonian University of Life Sciences drew special attention to the fact that special laws make higher education regulations difficult to follow. That is why they proposed that the university law should be amended. In principle, the Finance Commission supported the right of the Technical University's Board of Governors to direct up to 10% of its revenue towards granting loans or guarantees to legal persons established for the performance of their statutory duties. It was recognised that other universities could also be expected to need similar regulations. The Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu reached a similar conclusion. The Committee on Culture prepared a second reading on 12 and 19 May. In addition, on 13 May, we organised a meeting at Tallinn University of Technology. As a result of the discussions, the Committee on Culture decided to propose two amendments to the draft. The first proposal of the Committee on Culture is to amend § 4 (3) of the draft, which concerns the areas of responsibility of Tallinn University of Technology. This amendment follows from the Tallinn University of Technology's own proposal to base the definition of the University's responsibilities on the "Frascati Manual" classification of scientific disciplines and specialties. This proposal was also supported by the Ministry of Education and Research. According to the proposal, the Tallinn University of Technology offers higher education opportunities based on the development of science and technology at all levels of higher education in engineering and engineering, natural sciences and social sciences. The Committee on Culture did not support the part of the TUT's proposal aimed at keeping the areas of responsibility open to the extent of the surrounding areas. However, the Commission considered it important that the university's responsibilities are clearly defined at law level. The second proposal of the Committee on Culture is to amend Paragraph 4 (4) (3) as a consequence of s. a from the requirements of the State Budget Act, which entered into force on 23 March. The State Budget Act was known to be supplemented by the University Act § 511, according to which the University draws up each year a financial plan which forms the basis for the preparation of the University's budget. Under the amendment, the Board of Governors approves the university's financial plan and, consequently, the university's budget. On 12 May, the Committee on Culture decided to consensually send draft 619 to second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by today, 21 May, with a proposal to conclude the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U98	There are questions for the waitress. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U99	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! You probably stopped discussing it at second reading, but I will ask you. Why are we in a situation where we are discussing the Tallinn University of Technology Act today? In our time, there was hope that we would be able to cope with the University Act and the University of Tartu Act. Now we've reached the Technical University. I asked the rector of the state university if he had the hope that the state university would have its own law. He thought he wasn't right now. But can and when do we get to a situation where the University of Tallinn, the University of Earth and anyone else wants to get their law?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U100	Thank you. Under the General Part of the Civil Code Act, a legal person governed by public law is established on the basis of a law relating to the public interest and that legal person. Public institutions usually have their own law in Estonia. We currently have a total of 21 public institutions, 15 of whom have their own law. Currently, it is mainly public universities that do not have their own law. However, we do know that the law of the University of Tartu is already in force. Since the initiative to initiate their own draft law came from Tallinn University of Technology to better regulate the areas of responsibility and everything else that concerns management, we were happy to process this draft. Our message to other public universities is that if they are to be the initiative, we will certainly consider launching these draft laws as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U101	Cameron Maruse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U102	Thank you. Good waitress! I'm gonna ask you one more question. Your explanations were convincing in themselves. But I too am somewhat sceptical about whether we really need to create a separate law for every public institution, in this case the university. The university as an institution, if it is the same thing in itself, is the University of Tartu, Tallinn University of Technology or the Estonian Academy of Arts. Basically, we should still have the attitude that we have one university law. If situations change, this law allows the specifics of this university to be taken into account by means of an intra-university regulation. But it seems to me that this path, when all institutions are governed by law, is not quite right.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U103	Thank you. We must look at the situation in the future and see how it makes sense. We're constantly in the process of redecorating the law scenery. If legislators see it necessary or consider it important to draw up a new university law that is universal and capable of covering the responsibilities, management and so on of all universities, this could be the place of future consideration. But we are now taking this course to try to meet universities and help them as much as possible at the legislative level to improve their governance and learning and research. But I guess this is the point of consideration in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U104	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U105	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I, too, am not convinced that every university must necessarily have its own law. But I understood from your answer that the current policy is such that whether a university receives its law or not depends primarily on the university's initiative. If there is a university initiative, this law will be developed. So we may at some point be in a situation where every university has its own law. Will the university law, which governs all universities, disappear because there is no need for it anymore?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U106	Thank you. Our message to universities has been that we expect them to show interest themselves. If they really have an interest in having their own law, I am talking about public universities, then we are willing to consider it. We have followed the same logic that I have just described in advance that public institutions usually have their own law. It is certainly not our task to force universities to enforce their own law if they are able to deliver it within the framework of the university law. But if such a desire comes from them, then in cooperation, I would stress that, in cooperation, this law should be done. In my opinion, the initiative of Tallinn University of Technology is a positive and exemplary one for others.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U107	Juhan Parts, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U108	Thank you. I, too, would like to ask others questions. Am I right to understand that this bill does not depend on the initiative of one university or another, or is not extended to all kinds of other universities and universities in Estonia, but is still a message about the strategic importance of engineering and technology education for Estonia's development?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U109	Certainly, there is a certain message about the existence of a law. We know that Tallinn University of Technology is another very strong and prominent educational and scientific institution alongside the University of Tartu. Of course, it also has a symbolic meaning; engineering education and technical sciences are also the priorities of the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U110	Thank you, Lauri Swan! No more questions for the waitress. I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations because no one wants to negotiate. Two amendments have been tabled for draft 619. The first one was the Committee on Culture and took full account of it, and the second was also the Committee on Culture and took full account of it. The Committee on Culture has proposed to conclude the second reading of draft 619. There are no other proposals. The second reading of Bill 619 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U111	The next item is the second reading of the Penal Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and related draft law amending other laws. The Commission's rapporteur is Kalle Jents. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U112	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law 554 is probably the most extensive draft that has been in the proceedings of the Legal Committee during the composition of this Riigikogu. As a reminder, the first reading took place on 29 January and the deadline for submitting amendments was 12 February. In the meantime, the Commission has been together eleven times and we have discussed the problems very thoroughly. I will read out all the organisations and institutions that have submitted opinions and suggestions to us during this period: Ministry of Justice, Ministry of the Interior, Ministry of Finance, Tallinn City Chancellery, Elektrilevi OÜ, Elion Companies AS, Eesti Raudtee AS, Estonian Employers' Confederation, Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Estonian Merchants Association, Koda of bailiffs and bankers, Estonian Authors' Association, Estonian Association for the Protection of Copyright and the BSA (The Software Alliance). Professor of Civil Law of the University of Tartu Paul Varul and Judge of Harju County Court Merike Varusk also submitted proposals. Representatives of all these bodies have also participated in our committee meetings. I'm not going to count all the names because there are more people than there are organisations. Let it be said in advance that, as formal amendments, we were able to draft 63 amendments during this sitting. I have planned to introduce to you the most important and fundamental amendments, not all of them, because all the explanations are also in the explanatory memorandum and it would simply take too much time to present all the proposals. But before I briefly present the main proposals, I will mention some of the issues on which the Commission did not consider it necessary either to initiate the amendment or to support the proposals in principle. First of all, one such important disputed place in the general part of the case was the compulsory winding-up of a legal person. The draft stipulates that it will be abolished from the general part of the Penal Code, but Merike Varusk and Paul Varul proposed that it be kept. We discussed this at length and in depth. Since it is really very easy to start a new company now, it is essentially meaningless when it comes to compulsory winding-up, rather we can come to the aid of some companies and help them liquidate the institution. As a criminal measure, it is not effective. The financial penalty is certainly effective. If there is anything to be taken from a legal person, he must be punished financially. These penalties are known to exist in very many cases in a special part. Paul Varul and Merike Varusk also proposed the restoration of criminal liability in § 380 of the Penal Code, the failure to convene meetings of the shareholders and members of the profit and loss association, § 3851 'Irregularity of the obligation to submit a bank application' and § 381 'Irregular reporting of the company's assets and other verifiable circumstances'. We discussed these problems, and we found that these formations did not give up the scale of a criminal offence. That is why we did not support the honourable professor and judge's proposal. We also did not support the proposal of the Estonian Merchants' Association, nor did the Confederation of Employers have raised this problem from 64 euros to 200 euros. That's where the criminal liability for theft starts. We found that people's income and cost of living have changed over the past ten years. Once the limit was set at 64 euros, or approximately 1000 kroons, but the current standard of living is 200 euros. There is no point in treating petty thefts below that limit as criminal offences. The Merchants' Association and the Employers' Confederation also protested against raising the financial penalty for misdemeanour imposed on the legal person from EUR 32000 to EUR 400000. I would point out that this EUR 400000 applies to a very small number of misdemeanours concerning certain financial irregularities. It is not a widely used measure that legal persons should pay such a high penalty for misdemeanours. In the case of certain misdemeanours, for example, this applies to banks, nor does it appear to be a very large amount of EUR 400000. The bailiffs and the insolvency practitioners wanted to make an amendment to § 3313: 'The bailiff knowingly ordered the unlawful seizure or sale of property to a significant extent if it caused material damage. " They wanted to make a change that only a bailiff would be held liable if serious damage had been done. We maintained the view that it is easier to prove a significant extent, that the notion of injury is more vague. If insolvency practitioners and bailiffs specifically sell assets of more than EUR 4000, which is a very specific amount, this provision can be applied if the amount is less than that, then there will be no criminal liability. The Ministry of the Interior raised the question of how to prove the emotional pain recorded in § 2901 'Pinning'. The ministry found it unclear whether this pain could be proven and what it was all about. In the view of the Ministry, it should be considered whether this provision could remain in the law. However, we found that it could remain, and the employees of the Ministry of Justice supported it. The Ministry of the Interior also proposed the addition of § 2981 'Trade in Power', paragraph 2, which would provide for liability if committed to a large extent. We also discussed this in depth, and we found that the most important factor in the trading of influence is not the amount that is transferred to the official, but the nature or value of the act itself or its substance or value that is traded by that official. That is why it may not be appropriate to emphasise the great scope here. We did not support this amendment. The Ministry of the Interior also had proposals to involve minors in controlling the purchase of alcohol so that sellers who sell alcohol to minors could be apprehended. However, we found that it was not ethical to involve minors. I will now go to the specific amendments. First of all, amendments 5 and 7 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. They introduced the novel principle that the aggravating circumstance of committing an offence against a person by an adult is the presence of a minor. This is a new aggravating factor, which has never existed before in criminal law. Amendment 12 was tabled by Rait Maruste, Väino Linde and Kalle Jents. In short, the content of the proposal is that it does not agree with the general part of the version whereby all minors who have committed a criminal offence and have been sentenced to imprisonment will be released after half the sentence has been served. We felt that it would still be more appropriate to apply the judgment of the Court of Justice. After lengthy debates and discussions, the Ministry of Justice prepared a compromise proposal, which is set out in the following amendment. It is written in the minutes that the amendment was taken into account in substance. A new wording was created according to which minors in intentional first-degree crimes are not automatically released, but are made by courts. But if an unwary first-degree crime or a second-degree crime has been committed, these minors will be released and will remain under the supervision of the probation worker. There are also such changes that they can be subject to social programmes. One quite fundamental amendment is contained in Amendment 23 concerning the transfer of small quantities of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances for their own use. As we know, possession of small quantities of narcotic drugs is not a criminal offence under the current criminal code. But there have been cases in practice that certain people systematically cross the line with this small amount. Therefore, § 183 of the Penal Code makes an amendment to the fact that such systematic action has been turned into a criminal offence. That means that if someone goes too far with that small amount of drugs, it's possible to take him into criminal custody. We count as systematic three times in a year. § 194 of the Penal Code provides for the acquisition and mediation of falsified medicinal products as a criminal offence, which in the meantime had been excluded from the text. This relates to the so-called Medicrime Convention, which provides that such acts are also punishable by criminal penalties. I would also like to draw attention to Amendment 25. This was done by Andres Anvelt when he was still a member of the Riigikogu. The aim of the proposal is to provide for a custodial sentence in exchange for biasing the use of doping. For the same act, if committed repeatedly or in the case of a person under 18 years of age, it is now possible to apply up to three years of imprisonment. Paragraph 1 provides for one year's imprisonment. Before, there was only a financial penalty. Amendment 27. In the text of the first reading, § 2353 "Against the State of the Police Officer and the Active Army'. We had a serious discussion that this circle should be expanded. This was due to the fact that § 2353 is now entitled 'Agent's anti-State influence'. The question arose whether it would involve all the persons it should cover, or whether this circle would even get too wide, but we found that it would rather be wider than narrower. Amendment 29 was also proposed by Rait Maruste, Väino Linde and Kalle Jents. The problem dealt with there has also attracted the attention of the general public. Paragraph 266 of the Penal Code provides for liability for intrusion. The question is which room is being criminally sanctioned for trespassing. In the original version, it said 'housing'. Under the Law of Obligations Act, a dwelling is considered to be a permanent residence space. There were long disputes over this term and finally, the Commission included in the draft the term'residence space'. Our proposal was a slightly different'space used for temporary residence'. But basically, the problem of summer homes and country homes should now be solved. If anyone invades it, it's a criminal offence. Decriminalisation was the main objective of the text of the draft proposal submitted to the first reading, with several criminal offences having expired. Now we moved a little bit in the other direction. Paragraphs 274 and 275 of the Penal Code deal with insulting and defamation by a public authority. In the original text of the draft act, they were put together in a single paragraph and they were a misdemeanour, and now the Commission approved an act whereby insulting a public authority (§ 275) remains a misdemeanour, but defamation (§ 2751) is still a criminal offence and can be punished by imprisonment or a financial penalty of up to two years. We found that defamation is a very conscious systematic activity that can be abused against authorities today. That's why we made that decision. Amendment 36. An insult to the court will also be a misdemeanor, but defamation is a criminal offence. One very important change towards tightening the sanction follows from Amendment 40, the importance of which was emphasised by Elektrilevi OÜ, Elion Companies AS and Eesti Raudtee AS. At the time of the first reading, § 406 "Distance and damage to the vital system" had disappeared from the sentence of imprisonment. Now it's back. Such action shall be punishable by imprisonment of up to three years. This means that if someone goes to pick up railway sleepers or breaks into a substation and pulls something out of the wall, he can also be punished in criminal proceedings. I think this is a rather important change. We did not have time to make procedural decisions on two very important and fundamental issues that we discussed. First of all, cartel agreements dealt with in § 400. We listened to the representatives and entrepreneurs of the Competition Authority. On the one hand, there were proposals that these agreements could be misdemeanours, but there were also proposals that a new type of procedure should be established, with a high level of financial leverage or sanctions. There have also been proposals that these agreements could be misdemeanours and that the fine should be substantially increased. In that case, we may go against the Constitution if the fine for misconduct is higher than the fine imposed by criminal proceedings. The Committee on Legal Affairs wants to have a little more discussion here. The second such block concerns intellectual property and copyright. Here we had serious disputes over some of the qualifying features. Therefore, since we have not been able to deal with all the issues, although most of them have been dealt with and have also been the subject of procedural decisions, the Committee on Legal Affairs proposes that the second reading be suspended and that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 4 p.m. on 26 May.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U113	Thank you very much. Please, Rait Maruse, question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U114	Good waitress! Did you also have data on how many paragraphs are in the Penal Code now, how many were dropped in the course of this revision and how many paragraphs are "dead" paragraphs that have never been implemented, but what is simply there?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U115	Thank you. That's a very good question. We didn't exactly have the data. According to my memory, there's probably a third of these dead paragraphs. But there aren't any statistics about how many paragraphs fell out. I admit it would be interesting for everyone to know. If we come back to this hall, we'll try to produce the statistics, because it'll probably interest most of us.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U116	Please, Väino Linde!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U117	Thank you, Mr President. Just a good waitress! I am pleased to see Amendment 30, driven by the 29th proposal, the three, I hope, by the proposal of a good person, so that not only in the house but in the room used for living in the first place will it continue to be a crime. But I will ask you more specifically about this amendment, which talks about the right of discretion of the court. Part of our proposal has been taken into account, but part of this point says that if a person under 18 has committed a second-degree crime, then the court does not have a choice, but it is obliged to let that young person, who may have grown up and is now a good person, but maybe there is a real poop, in any case, free. I am talking about Amendment 13. Why did the Commission maintain such an opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U118	This was certainly accepted by the Commission because the drafter defended these principles in a very thorough and ardent manner. The explanatory memorandum was written about three pages of how and what would follow this release. We discussed probation and supervision. As a new concept, social programmes are introduced that can be applied. One reason was that there is also such practice in Finland and Sweden. Since it was the representatives of the Ministry of Justice who wanted the compromise very, very much that minors would be released before the deadline if they committed a crime of first degree or second degree because of negligence, the Commission finally found that the church should be in the middle of the village. Let us see how this option will work in practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U119	Thank you. Please, Rait Maruse, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U120	Can you express an opinion on the possibility of the Committee on Legal Affairs proposing to the Ministry of Justice and the Government, for example, in the course of the draft procedure, a regulation in the area of administrative enforcement? This would be related to competition matters. Turns out there's a criminal sanction now, it's going to be abolished, but there's nothing to offer for it yet. This opinion should perhaps also include a view on what the English terminology calls punitive damages, or punitive coercive measures. Perhaps they could be introduced and used in these methods.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U121	Thank you. Yes, it seems that there is quite a consensus. I am not thoroughly familiar with the practice of other countries, but on the basis of the information available, I can say that in those countries where they have been applied and introduced, efficiency is greater and businesses are indeed more cooperative. Criminal liability is not effective, it is not effective. I think, yes, that the Ministry of Justice could really start developing these measures. It is certainly not possible to do so in the course of the current draft procedure. How will we proceed with this draft, we will discuss it with the Commission. We listen to the views of the parties and the ministries. But in the long run, it's probably the only way.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U122	Please, Juhan Parts!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U123	Thank you. When the previous government submitted this draft, there was a great deal of pressure to exclude cartels from criminal offences. There is a long story behind it and its meaning is fundamental to a functioning market economy. Following the question of the previous questioner, Mr Rait Maruste, I am now asking such a question. Do you agree that we cannot come to the decriminalisation of cartels before there is no functioning alternative procedure and a package of sanctions? Otherwise, we will completely devalue the Estonian economic environment from the point of view of cartels.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U124	Thank you. I can only say my personal opinion. I, too, am now of the opinion that we cannot simply decriminalise these agreements and say that we are not putting any other sanction in place. I cannot speak on behalf of the Commission, nor can I speak on behalf of the group. I'm sure we'll discuss it again. If we look at the new version of the Penal Code, we will see that in criminal proceedings, the maximum amount of criminal penalties imposed on a legal person is EUR 16 million. In the case of a misdemeanour, this limit is EUR 400000 according to the new version. We can't go up there. We can theoretically impose a penalty of millions of euros, which would, of course, be more effective than, for example, one-year imprisonment. It is probably not wise to shut down the company's manager for one year, but it would be wise to get millions of euros into the state budget from a company. But as I said, we will definitely discuss it further.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U125	Thank you. Please, Juhan Parts, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U126	I'm gonna keep this up. The problem is that the existing Code of Misdemeanour Procedure is simply not applicable to cartel offences; these unified rules cannot be applied procedurally, in terms of limitation periods or in terms of many other aspects. I am not even asking now, but I want to give you, as the rapporteur responsible for the Commission, a message that this issue will not be taken lightly after the second reading has been stopped. This is a very fundamental change. There is no way that we would like to see such a fundamental change being made with the votes of the government union simply for some confusing reason.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U127	Thank you for pointing that out. Surely we do not take it lightly. I am now talking about my personal opinion, but that is what we discussed in the Commission. This paragraph 1 is very vague: '... an agreement, decision or concerted practice between undertakings with an objective or effect which distorts competition. " You can say that women spoke in the sauna. When these things began to be done with Hasard years ago, the entrepreneurs were confused and paralyzed by their work. For example, I would discuss this paragraph. However, paragraph 2 sets out very specific characteristics, which are criminal offences.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U128	Please, Rein Lang!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U129	Thank you, Mr President. I'll take it from where Rait Maruste was staying. Punitive damages, or punitive damages, are also possible in civil court proceedings. Estonian law currently allows the court to issue punitive damages in the case of press delicts. Did the Commission discuss the possibility that certain benefits could no longer be protected by criminal law, but that this possibility could be given to civil justice through a change in the law of debt? Did you discuss this and when you discussed what offences you consider possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U130	Thank you. As I said earlier, we did not have time to discuss this issue. We were able to hear the parties: the Competition Authority, entrepreneurs and ministries. But on the way forward, I also said that in my presentation, we would like to discuss more. That is one reason why we propose that the second reading be interrupted. We want to discuss possible options for the future. That's why I can't say anything more.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U131	Thank you. Please, Rein Lang, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U132	Thank you. I have received an answer to the question about cartels and the penalties that can be understood for market manipulations at all, but in fact, penal damages are also possible in other areas. Take medicine, for example, and why not just a few areas. Is that even what we were talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U133	Thank you. No, I didn't. If the good questioner noticed, he knows that we didn't get through all the topics we had on the table in those 11 sessions. We'll discuss it in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U134	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Kalle Jents. Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. 63 amendments to the draft have been tabled, and we will review them. Amendment 1 is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the decision of the commission is that this amendment must be fully taken into account. The second amendment is from the lead committee and has been fully taken into account. The third amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the decision of the commission is that this amendment must be fully taken into account. The fourth amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the decision of the commission is that this amendment must be fully taken into account. The fifth amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the decision of the commission is that this amendment must be fully taken into account. The sixth amendment is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the proposal of the commission is to take the substance into account. The seventh amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the decision of the commission is that this amendment must be fully taken into account. The eighth amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the decision of the commission is that this amendment must be fully taken into account. The ninth amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs and has been fully taken into account. The tenth amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the decision of the commission is that this amendment must be fully taken into account. Amendment 11 is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the decision of the commission is that this proposal must be fully taken into account. The 12th amendment is from Rait Marust, Väino Lindel and Kalle Jents; the proposal of the commission is to take the substance into account. Amendment 13 is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 14 is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. The 15th amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 16 is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. The 17th amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the decision of the commission is to take full account of it; the 18th amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 19 is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. Let me put it this way: if I do not say which of the Commission's proposals is, this means that the proposal is from the Committee on Legal Affairs. Whereas this is fully accounted for by Amendment No 20; whereas the decision of the commission is fully taken into account; whereas no 21, the decision of the commission is fully taken into account; whereas no 22, the decision of the commission is fully taken into account; whereas the decision of the commission is fully taken into account; whereas no 23, the decision of the commission is fully taken into account; whereas the decision of the commission is fully taken into account; whereas No 25, the decision of the commission is fully taken into account; whereas no 26, the decision of the commission is fully taken into account; whereas the decision of the commission is fully taken into account; whereas no 28, the decision of the commission is fully taken into account; whereas the decision of Rait Marusselt, Väino Lindel and Kalle Jents; whereas the decision of the commission is fully taken into account; whereas No 35, the decision of the commission has been fully taken into full account; whereas no 36 and the decision of the commission is fully taken into account; whereas no 38 is fully taken into account; whereas no 40 is fully taken into account; whereas the decision of the commission is fully taken; The amendments have been examined. The proposal of the commission is that the second reading of draft 554 should be interrupted. Second reading aborted. I set the deadline of 26 May at 16 a.m. for the submission of 554 amendments to the draft text.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U135	Today's 11th item is the second reading of the Law on the Courts instituted by the Government of the Republic and, in this connection, the Draft Act on the Amendment of Other Laws 570. I would like a speech by Väino Linde, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U136	Honourable Riigikogu! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I would remind you that this draft amends the appointment of assistant judges and reforms the administrative arrangements for judicial registers. The draft also aims to replace the preparatory service for the assistance of judges with the implementation of the preparatory plan for the assistance of judges. In preparing for the second reading, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs supplemented this draft with some of the necessary provisions that were in line with the law to be amended. The first reading of the draft act took place on 21 January, the first reading was closed and the deadline for tabling amendments was 12 February. A number of amendments were received within the deadline. These were presented by our fine colleagues from the Estonian Centre Party Group and the Social Democratic Party Group. In addition, a representative of the Government of the Republic received some additional proposals from the Ministry of Justice on the basis of which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs decided to initiate a number of amendments. The last proposals were received by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 30 April. So today we will be able to revise 15 amendments. Some amendments tabled by members of the Riigikogu from the Social Democratic Party Group were withdrawn in the Constitutional Committee during the procedure of the draft. What about the amendments? Amendment 1 shows that the assistant judges are, like other members of the court, members of the court. We also included the Estonian Association of Justice Aids in the draft procedure. Their representative was present at quite a number of meetings of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and we also had quite heated disputes about the nature of one or the other provision. However, Amendments 1 and 2 should express a compromise. The detention department or the registry department shall consist of assistant judges and other members of the courts. The Director of the Court may appoint the Head of the Registry and the Regional Departments of the Registry. If so, these staff shall be appointed from among the assistant judges. I would like to highlight Amendment 6. In the original text, the minimum amount of their salary was given as a guarantee of the possible independence of the judges' assistants, as the judges were concerned that their remuneration might be reduced as a result of the application of this law. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not really share this concern. In the course of further proceedings on the draft, the Government of the Republic supplemented this provision by means of Amendment 6. The proposal was to further clarify this provision, noting that the remuneration of the Judges' Assistants and Advocates-General should be reviewed in a uniform manner. At the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, it became clear that the amendment, which provided for the introduction into the law of a specific salary as a possible guarantee for the assistance of judges, was not supported by a representative of the Association of Assistant Judges. The majority of the members of the Constitutional Commission decided to delete this provision as unnecessary. The Commission meeting also revealed that there is no such provision in other laws. This means that the law does not mention the minimum salary of one or another employee. So much for Amendment 6. The eighth amendment was also initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. We have supplemented the draft with another provision on the amendment of party law. In the past, the Constitutional Commission had reduced the number of members required to form a political party from 1000 to 500. We remember that. However, one provision in that law remained such that it could be disputed whether it was really meant to be 500, not 1000. For there to be no dispute, we changed this specific provision in the course of the procedure for this draft. The tenth amendment concerns the taxation of the insolvency administrator's remuneration. The problem here was that the current regulator's remuneration regulation is not sufficiently clear on the issue of adding VAT for the payment of the administrator's remuneration. The question arises as to whether VAT is added to it or whether it is included in the operator's fee. We used the interpretation of the Civil Chamber of the Supreme Court to this effect. A clear legal basis for adding VAT by the court to the administrator's remuneration is currently being established. The tenth amendment was supported by both the House of Bankruptcy Administrators and the Government of the Republic, represented by the Ministry of Justice. It is also important to say the following about the amendments. The Supreme Court did not agree with our earlier approach to state fees in court proceedings. In particular, we have made such an amendment to the State Fees Act that, in civil matters, the state fees are the same when the application is submitted on paper, but when it is submitted electronically, they are different, perhaps somewhat smaller. This approach was not accepted by the Supreme Court. On this basis, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs added one amendment which should in the future keep the state fees equal, whether the application was submitted on paper or by electronic means. This examination of the amendments and the examination of the draft amendments took place in quite a number of meetings of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. In order to prepare all this beauty for the second reading today, we have already looked at this draft on 19 May, 13 May and even 10 February. We dealt with this draft in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs even before the amendments were received. However, the Commission's proposal after this whole procedure is unanimous: the proposal is to conclude the second reading today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U137	Thank you. Sven Sester's question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U138	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague! During the procedure for this draft, the Chancellor of Justice also referred to certain problems with the competence of the judicial authorities. After voting on the amendments to this draft and in its own context, can it be said that the possible problems referred to by the Chancellor of Justice, which have existed in society, can be resolved? The Chancellor of Justice has stated that we are now moving in the right direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U139	Thank you, good questioner! That's a good question. At the sitting of the Constitutional Commission, I remember once being represented by the Chancellor of Justice. The Chancellor of Justice, yes, in one of his letters raised the question that, according to his understanding, the assistant judge is still a judge and should be subject to additional guarantees and guarantees, as for a judge or, more or less, as for a judge, if I speak that way in the language of the people. I must tell you that the majority of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not share this view unambiguously. We listened to the country's view of such an approach by representatives of our superior courts. Our understanding was as I said when I spoke about Amendments 1 and 2. The help of the judge will certainly perform a very grateful function in the Estonian judicial system and their action will in any case be very necessary for the state. It is a good thing that these registers are with the courts, but they are still court officials, not judges in the role of judges.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U140	Thank you. Please, Rein Lang!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U141	Thank you. I'm going on with the same thing. I understood the Chancellor of Justice's representative that he no longer speaks of judges as judges, but rather as individuals who are dependent on the independence of the judiciary. That's his argument. But what impression do you have that the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs are unanimous in the fact that judges are not involved in justice, or do different political groups have different opinions on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U142	Thank you, good questioner! However, the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs understood this problem unambiguously. Judicial aides are certainly not judicial in the classical sense. Although, as I recall, some Members of the Commission felt somewhat different for one reason or another. But the general approach was, yes, such that justice is certainly not the work done by the judges. The function of aiding justice is certainly carried out in courts by many other court officers and officials, who have not been mentioned in any way in these laws.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U143	Thank you. Please, Juhan Parts!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U144	Thank you. As I move on from the question of Mr Rein Lang, I will say that there is definitely one person sitting here who is deeply convinced that this is justice. This is a long, decades-long dispute. In my opinion, the problem with the draft is that it actually underestimates the importance of organising two important issues effectively in a market economy: the reliability of the civil circulation of real estate, so that it burdens as little as possible our economy, and the transparency of the business environment. However, in my opinion, the Commission has not given sufficient consideration to the fundamental proposals put forward by the Association of Assistant Judges. I have been in contact with them, they have approached me and they have taken stock of the Commission's discussions. Do you consider it possible to interrupt the second reading in order to consider this question again?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U145	Thank you, good Juhan, for this question. I recall that this bill was received as a text by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs when you were also able to participate in the activities of the Government of the Republic. I don't remember one document or the other showing any difference in your position as minister on this bill. As far as registers are concerned, whether they are reliable or not, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not ask whether the reliability of the registers in Estonia depends on whether they belong to the courts or not. We did not start to change the existing system, and we found that let these registers be at the courts in the way they are today. This does not preclude that in the future this system may be built in a completely different way, but it must be reliable and reliable. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has today presented you with a proposal to conclude the second reading. There was certainly no proposal to cancel reading from us.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U146	Thank you. Please, Rait Maruse!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U147	I'd like to ask you a question from Juhan Parts. There has to be a legal dispute in order for some activity to be a matter of justice. Secondly, there must be a procedural procedure for resolving this legal dispute. Thirdly, there must be an appeal procedure. Not all of this is in the case of entries in the register, and it is therefore very questionable to consider entries in the register to be a case for justice. However, making reliable entries in the case of justice is an important additional activity. Therefore, one does not exclude the other. If we want to have a reliable register, this can be achieved in the implementation process. If you just call it justice, it doesn't add anything to credibility. Do you agree with that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U148	Thank you. That's a good question. I have no choice but to accept this fundamental question and the ensuing explanation. That's right. That is how the majority of the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs felt.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U149	Thank you very much. Juhan Parts, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U150	I will ask you from a slightly different angle, and I will not continue the academic debate initiated by Mr Marust, because we are still a political assembly. Do you think it is possible that if such economicisation continues, there could be a court of first instance in the Republic of Estonia that would be subordinate to one director? After a little while, perhaps the question arises, which is why the court of second instance, in a so-called managerial, budgetary and administrative way, and finally the question arises, which is why the Supreme Court too. Let's do a court-martial and subdue them to one of the principals! Do you consider such a development possible on the basis of the arguments that justify the submission of these registers to a single administrative officer?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U151	Thank you. As a representative of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I cannot in any way comment on the arguments put forward by the questioner. This is not the way our committee discussed, and all these questions do not relate in any way to the substance, the provision or the idea of the draft. So in this respect, I have nothing to add to you and I have nothing to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U152	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Väino Linde! Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The bill was 15... I'm sorry! Juhan Parts, would you like to participate in the negotiations?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U153	I am a young member of the Riigikogu, I do not know how to behave. On behalf of the Group, I am proposing an interruption. When is this the right time?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U154	Then, during the negotiations, you come to the stand and say it. Right now is the moment. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U155	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm sorry there are shortcomings in my procedural skills! But on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, I have a proposal to interrupt the second reading of this draft. There are both substantive and formal reasons for this. The formal reason, in my opinion, is that this is a way of conveying a message and a request to the honourable Social Democrats that Minister Anvelt, however, should take time and focus on this draft, the amendment that has been proposed. This bill has been submitted by the previous government, I agree with that. I held this bill on the subject of a long story of almost a year of discussions with the justice ministers of the Coalition Partner Reform Party, and I finally gave up. It was pretty hopeless to understand the unnecessaryness of this change, the fact that it was almost a substitute. I'm not going to talk about what's in it right now. In the round of questions, we touched on one small aspect. However, on behalf of the group, I propose that the second reading be interrupted so that the Socialist Minister for Justice, who has just been appointed, can take just a moment to deepen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U156	Thank you. Please, Rein Lang!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U157	Thank you, Mr President. It was my dear friend, Juhan Parts, who really did not object to this bill in the government that motivated me to speak. I remember very well that he didn't argue back. This bill makes perfect sense. I only take the floor here so that the MPs can gather and vote down the IRL proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U158	Juhan Parts gets the word for reply on the spot.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U159	For the Annals, I don't remember that when this bill was presented, Rein Lang would have been at the table of the government because he had been sent to another job, he had come here to do a much more important job. In this draft, by the way, the Ministers of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union were entirely divided. But we didn't think it wise to veto it. It was a political gentlemen's agreement that we would continue the discussion in the Riigikogu. This line was meant for annals.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U160	Thank you. Please, Siim Kisler, a line from the scene? Two minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U161	Thank you. Having personally been present at this government meeting, I can assure you that Juhan Parts argued long and passionately. I can also assure you that Rein Lang was not present at this hearing. His statement is wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U162	Thank you very much. Any more calls? No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. 15 amendments to the draft have been received; we will review them. Amendment 1 is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to take this proposal fully into account. Amendment 2 is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the decision of the commission is that this amendment must be fully taken into account. Amendment 3 is from the Estonian Central Party Group; the decision of the commission is that this amendment should be disregarded. Amendment 4 is from the Estonian Central Party Group; the decision of the commission is that this amendment must be disregarded. Amendment 5 is from the Estonian Centre Party Group; the decision of the commission is that this amendment must be disregarded. Amendment 6 is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the decision of the commission is that this amendment must be fully taken into account. Please, Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U163	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to vote on Amendment 6.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U164	Thank you. Let us move to the preparation of the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, attention! I shall put to the vote Amendment 6, which has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The proposal of the Steering Committee is that this amendment should be fully taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 33 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour and 30 against, with no abstentions. The amendment proposed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will therefore remain valid. Amendment 7 is from the Estonian Centre Party Group... Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, please? The proposal of the commission is to disregard this amendment. Amendment 8 is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to take this amendment fully into account. Amendment 9 is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the lead committee has taken full account of it. Amendment 10 is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the lead committee has taken full account of it. Amendment 11 is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the lead committee has taken full account of it. Amendment 12 is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the commission has taken this proposal fully into account. Amendment 13 is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the commission has taken this proposal fully into account. Amendment 14 is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the commission has taken this proposal fully into account. Amendment 15 is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the commission has taken this proposal fully into account. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendments have been examined. The Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance has proposed that the second reading of draft 570 be interrupted. We have to vote through this. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for silence in the Chamber. We are now going to the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Association to interrupt the second reading of the Law on the Law of the Courts and related amendments to other laws of the Act No 570. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 18) and 47 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The second reading of Bill 570 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U165	Agenda item 12 is the second reading of the Draft Structural Support Act 622 for the period 2014 to 2020 initiated by the Government of the Republic. To give a presentation, I would like to ask Rannar Vassilyev, Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U166	Ladies and gentlemen, The Commission discussed this draft at its meeting on 13 and 20 May. By the deadline for submitting amendments, 2 May, no amendments were received from the Riigikogu. However, the Commission made 14 consensual amendments to the draft proposal on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance. Their explanations are set out in the list of amendments. The amendments are rather technical in nature and the text is tidy in nature. Perhaps it is a slightly exceptional amendment No 11 which clarifies the issue of the governance of the sectoral committee. The requirement that the chairman of the sectoral committee should only be a representative of the implementing authority or the managing authority shall be deleted from the draft. The Commission has been approached by the Estonian Association of Non-profit Organisations and Foundations in connection with the draft Government Regulation to be established pursuant to this Act, which lays down, inter alia, the procedure for calculating expenditure as eligible. It was also proposed to allow for reimbursement of management costs on the basis of expenditure documents, to allow for self-financing in kind and to clarify why depreciation costs are considered ineligible. As the questions mainly concerned the implementing act and the Ministry of Finance has already communicated a comprehensive written response to the NGO association, I will not dwell on it. The Commission has taken consensual decisions to put the draft on the agenda by Wednesday 21 May and to close the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U167	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Rannar Vasiliev. Is there a desire to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. There have been 14 amendments to the draft, all of which have been proposed by the lead committee. Let's go through them. Amendment 1, in the opinion of the lead committee, this amendment must be fully taken into account. Amendment 2, in the opinion of the lead committee, this amendment must be fully taken into account. Amendment 3, in the opinion of the lead committee, this amendment must be fully taken into account. Amendment 4, in the opinion of the lead committee, this amendment must be fully taken into account. Amendment 5, in the opinion of the lead committee, this amendment must be fully taken into account. Amendment 6, in the opinion of the lead committee, this amendment must be fully taken into account. Amendment 7, in the opinion of the lead committee, this amendment must be fully taken into account. Amendment 8, in the opinion of the lead committee, this amendment must be fully taken into account. Amendment 9, in the opinion of the lead committee, this amendment must be fully taken into account. Amendment 10, in the opinion of the lead committee, this amendment must be fully taken into account. Amendment 11, in the opinion of the lead committee, this amendment must be fully taken into account. Amendment 12, in the opinion of the lead committee, this amendment must be fully taken into account. Amendment 13, in the opinion of the lead committee, this amendment must be fully taken into account. Amendment 14, in the opinion of the lead committee, this amendment must be fully taken into account. The amendments have been examined. The Commission's proposal is that the second reading of draft 622 should be completed. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U168	Today's item No 13 is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Law on district heating initiated by the Government of the Republic. For a presentation, Mr Urve Palo, Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications of the Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U169	Good afternoon, Madam President-in-Office and ladies and gentlemen. The draft law amending the Law on district heating aims to ensure that heat companies start using more environmentally friendly and affordable fuel in order to ensure that the price of heat is as favourable and stable as possible for the district heating consumer, together with a secure and efficient heat supply. The current regulation, which was also in force at the time of drafting, is too general and needs to be clarified to make the district heating sector more attractive. Lowering the price of district heating requires large-scale investments, for which the investor needs long-term and predictable regulation. The draft will, of course, have a particular impact on the low-volume grid areas, not only on those using high-cost fuel, such as fuel oil or gas, for district heating. The draft also concerns local authorities, which must be adopted by the councils by 1 July 2017 at the latest for a network area with less than 50000 megawatt-hours of production on their territory by a thermal economy development plan. The development plan must identify how to plan the future development of the network area and whether it is reasonable to continue to provide district heating to the extent that the region is still in force. As one of the major changes, the draft will create an opportunity for heat companies to earn a slightly higher return on investments that have reduced the price of heat. It could be a bonus that offers motivation. For example, if the final heat price decreases by 20% due to the investment, the heat company will be entitled to a 2% increase in productivity when calculating the heat limit price from that investment. This means that the consumer wins 18% and the company that invested 2%. In addition, the State envisages support measures for investment grants in the district heating sector for the period 2014 to 2020 amounting to EUR 78 million, including EUR 43 million for the renovation of boilers, EUR 27,5 million for the renovation of thermal pipelines, EUR 7 million for the upgrading of inefficient areas and EUR 0,5 million for the development plan. The regulations on support measures are currently being prepared and the support measures will be opened at the Environmental Investment Centre from the last quarter of this year to the first quarter of next year. The prerequisite for receiving grants is the existence of a draft-compliant thermal economy development plan approved by the Council. The draft was developed in cooperation with the Estonian Power Stations and District heating Association, the Estonian Cities Association, the Estonian Association of Rural Governments and the Competition Authority. On the basis of the information gathered during the preparation of the draft, the reduction in the sale price of heat is hampered by the following factors, which are the subject of the draft. Firstly, too little initiative has now been taken to reduce the price of district heating. The competition authority's approach does not ensure that the manufacturer or the system operator wins the price reduction as the entire price gain goes into the consumer's pocket. The draft solution is to amend the district heating law in such a way as to enable the seller to obtain a slightly higher return on the invested assets if the investment makes the price of heat cheaper. For example, a 1% higher rate of return is possible if the sales price of heat decreases from the last marginal price of 10 to 15%, a 1,5% higher rate of return is possible if the price decreases from 15 to 20%, and a 2% higher rate of return, which is the maximum, is possible if the price falls by more than 20%. A bonus of more than 2% cannot be obtained by heat companies according to the draft. There will also be a reference price for a district heating area that is effectively functioning according to the draft. The price shall be determined by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, acting on a proposal from the Competition Authority. Heat companies selling heat below the reference price are no longer required to coordinate the price with the Competition Authority. Based on preliminary estimates, the reference price is between EUR 56 and EUR 58 per megawatt-hour (excluding VAT). At such a price level, the price will not need to be coordinated with the Competition Authority in the future for 80 regions out of 230 or 49% of the market. Secondly, the current regulatory environment does not encourage investors, the regulatory criteria are strict and often change. The draft provides for a solution that the district heating law will be complemented by more basic regulatory principles (e.g. finding sales volume, a well-founded list of costs, finding a WACC bonus, setting a reference price) so that things are clearer and predictable. Thirdly, there is the problem of parallel production. This means local production equipment, such as a heat pump, which in the long term reduces the efficiency of the district heating network and increases the price of district heating for other consumers. To address the problem, the proposal will be complemented by a more precise two-component pricing option, i.e. the price for energy and the price for available capacity (analogous to electricity). Therefore, the possibility of using district heating in the area must be paid even if the district heating is not used while the local space heater is operating. This approach combats the increase in the price of district heating and helps to make district heating production and heat transmission more efficient. The two-component price applies to the entire network area, but the use of the price is for the network operator to decide, it is not mandatory. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has considered that local heating is more economically viable than district heating when the price of district heating, excluding VAT, is higher than EUR 75 per megawatt-hour. At the same time, there are many areas in Estonia where it is possible to achieve a much lower heat selling price than the said 75 euros per megawatt-hour by switching the heating source. This is also demonstrated by the principle of introducing the reference price reflected in the draft. The sale price of heat in an efficient district heating area is forecast to be EUR 50.258 per megawatt-hour. The amount paid per year by the household for district heating will not change as a result of the change, rather heating costs will be spread more evenly over the year. Four. Some regions are no longer sustainable, but the local government is not willing to break down the regions. The draft stipulates that the law will be supplemented by the obligation of local authorities to adopt, by 1 July 2017 at the latest, a thermal development plan for network areas with a sales volume of less than 50000 megawatt-hours, which will explain with a 10-year perspective the future of the region using district heating networks and local solutions. Heat companies must plan their investments on the basis of the development plan. The development plan also provides the basis for receiving public investment grants. In order to develop it, the State provides for a support measure which allows for the possibility of obtaining non-repayable aid amounting to 90% of the cost of the development plan, but not more than EUR 5000 per development plan. It is estimated that local authorities need to set up up up to 185 thermal economy development plans. Last but not least, the fifth problem is that heat companies do not coordinate on time the new cap prices, which will be set instead of the expiry cap prices. The competition authority has the right to issue an injunction in such cases, but it may take several months to coordinate the new price. The draft provides that a seller with an invalid marginal price may not use a price higher than the reference price fixed by the Minister as the selling price for heat. This, in turn, should motivate sellers to coordinate price caps in a timely manner with the Competition Authority. It is planned that the draft will enter into force as a law in general. The ideal option will take place before the start of the new heating season. Whether this is possible depends in many respects on how quickly the bill moves forward in the Riigikogu. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U170	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U171	Thank you. Madam Minister! As a practitioner, I believe that these proposals make the situation in the heat market more difficult. For the first 20 years, we moved in the direction that led to local authorities leaving this market. After all, the Competition Authority has an important role to play in this game because they are involved in the price. Speaking of this difference, 27 and 90, these are the figures taken from the ceiling for Narva, because there's a pretty big complex next door that deals with these heat things. We are trying to increase the role of local governments by creating a heat economy development plan, but it requires money and people. I'm afraid it won't go that easy.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U172	Thank you for your question. I'll explain it again. I myself have faced people's concerns in the course of my work that there is no interest in switching to a cheaper source of heating in their district heating area and using either oil or gas. Although it is known that if, for example, the boiler is converted to chipping wood instead of fuel oil, it is estimated that it will be possible to save 30% to 40%, and for gas at least 20%, even more. It's a huge price win. However, the company is not interested in this because it does not really benefit from it, it only has work and effort because the Competition Authority coordinates the currently promised price on a cost-based basis (cost-based price plus margin allowed). The paradox is that the higher the cost, the more the margin comes because it is calculated as a percentage, the greater the amount of the margin. This is certainly not a normal situation. The bill is trying to solve this problem. Attempts are made to motivate larger district heating areas to be able to stay below the reference price at their own price and they should no longer receive coordination from the Competition Authority every year, which is very cumbersome. If their price is below the reference price, they can set that price themselves, but they may not increase the price by more than 5% per year. If they want to do more, they have to ask the Competition Authority for permission, and then the Competition Authority will look at the cost of the request for an increase of more than 5%. However, a certain higher profitability can still be achieved and, at the same time, people will win more. However, these 187 small district heating areas need to be motivated on the one hand and obliged to carry out development plans on the other. You have to force them to move. Hey, guys, time has gone on, make a development plan where we can find the most sensible solution for your area! Perhaps it is already an existing system, but it may be reasonable to switch to chipping wood, for example, or it emerges from the development plan that the region has no perspective as a district heating area and that local solutions must be sought. Everything is possible, but it will not be known until a development plan has been developed, at least one of which must be a recognised expert. We are pleased that the country is ready to shoulder 90% of the development plan. The limit is 5,000 euros. This scheme will also serve as a basis for the State's support for the conversion of the entire system at a later stage. The Environmental Investment Centre will allocate over EUR 70 million in the new period for replacing and modernising heating systems. On the other hand, the state cannot simply give money. All of this must be based on thoughtful development plans, so that it really makes sense, not that one year we give money, but after a few years it turns out that this was not a forward-looking decision. On this basis, I think that this is a very long step forward. Businesses are obliged to do something to protect consumers because prices are falling, and businesses are also well motivated. It's kind of a whip and a carrot method.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U173	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U174	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. It is, in itself, a step in the right direction, but I am not so sure that the price of heat can achieve the necessary investments. When I drive around Estonia, I see that the forest floors are full of chips. We are heated with wood chips, and it is possible to lower the price by 15 to 20%. But if the investment money comes out of the consumer's pocket, this system will never work. If money were found on the sidelines for this investment, it would be possible to achieve this goal. But I'm not gonna believe this until that grant is in place and gets into those boiler craps.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U175	Thank you. You touched on a very important aspect. Indeed, you can see these chips while driving around Estonia. This bill foresees that these piles can be used effectively. Producers, those engaged in the forestry industry, or those with their own forest and who do harvesting there, for example, could be able to offer wood chips for sale in the nearby area. This would create more jobs and also bring money to the region, not to mention that the price of heat will drop by at least 20% for consumers if, for example, the gas boiler house is replaced. In the case of an oil boiler house, the savings will be even higher. The explanatory memorandum to the draft law states that if, for example, the price of natural gas with network service and excise duty, as well as oil shale oil with excise duty, is EUR 45 per megawatt-hour, the price of wood chips and peat is EUR 18 per megawatt-hour. So these differences are really big. In any case, we must make every effort to ensure that district heating areas are interested in switching to more favourable heating sources. The current system, if the calculation is cost-based, unfortunately does not help to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U176	Thank you. Please, Jüri Morozov!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U177	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Secretary! Do you think there are any other measures besides organising district heating areas and making them 'viable' and providing support in this area through the Environmental Investment Centre? Could energy cooperatives, for example, be created to make better use of local energy, or could cooperation between forest owners and heat producers be encouraged on the ground in order to make it more dynamic?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U178	Thank you. Certainly, when a boiler house is put into operation on wood chips, cooperation with timber companies will automatically intensify, because if demand arises, supply can also arise. However, as far as energy cooperatives are concerned, I am pleased to say that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is obliged by the Coalition Agreement to find out what prevents energy cooperatives from developing at the rate they could develop. The Ministry must also offer its solutions in order to create more energy cooperatives in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U179	Thank you. Please, Kalle Palling!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U180	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Tarmo Tamm touched on a very important subject. It is precisely these smaller district heating regions that need additional support in addition to the consumer tariff in order to make the investments pay. Can you say from the speech chair of the Riigikogu what amounts, how many million euros have been planned in the next budget period for the European Union's funds to modernise the district heating sector and to make it more environmentally friendly?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U181	Thank you for your question and for your clarification. I forgot to answer that part of the question before. Between 2014 and 2020 (these funds will be available at the end of the year or at the beginning of next year, so we are talking about roughly the 2015 to 2020 years) this amount will amount to EUR 78 million, including EUR 43 million for the renovation of boilers, EUR 27.5 million for the renovation of thermal pipelines and EUR 7 million for the upgrading of inefficient district heating areas. It is true that these sums could be even higher, that demand and need are likely to be many times higher, but it is important that the state is prepared to shoulder a certain part of it. Of course, the municipality or district heating company must also invest itself. Ultimately, this is the purpose of the draft in order for them to be motivated, either because they have the possibility to apply for money from the state and because they have a development plan, because they want to offer more favourable prices to people, or because they want to stay below the reference price at their price as a result of the innovation, which gives them the opportunity to gain higher returns, which is a small method of candy.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U182	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U183	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. In any case, this is a step in the right direction, and this will also improve the country's trade balance. It will become significantly better if we use the heat from our country and do not have to buy Russian gas or anything like that. This is a very important step. But Mr Palling has already said that small boiler houses are not able to make this investment by using heat prices. When the country comes to help, I don't see any problem. I think this is a perfectly legitimate step in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U184	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U185	Thank you. Please, Kalle Palling, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U186	Thank you. In many district heating regions, the price of district heating regulated by the Competition Authority is much lower than the average reference price proposed in the draft procedure, say Estonia. How is it, then, that in the future, the operator is entitled to raise the price up to the reference price, figuratively, leaving the price a few cents or a euro below the reference price? Or is there some kind of regulation about how much can be raised in a year or how much can be raised at the same time?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U187	Thank you. This price is unfortunately in a few places, but it still is. The most drastic example is Narva, where the price is very much below the reference price, because, of course, there is simply very favourable heat production. There is now a price of 27.48 euros per megawatt-hour. In order to avoid an immediate increase of the price to EUR 58 there, the law also provides that an increase of more than 5% per year should not be allowed without the permission of the Competition Authority. Authorisation is granted by the Competition Authority only if such an increase in prices is justified where there is a reasonable extra cost which requires more price increases.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U188	Please, Jüri Morozov, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U189	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! How do you think that the measures envisaged for district heating areas could have any impact on technology in this area in our country? I mean, coal stoves that are heated with chipped wood. After all, they are larger, several megawatts, as well as smaller, for small production. Can these measures not affect this industry within our country?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U190	Sure, sure. Boilers are, yeah, different. Tallinn Heating, which includes one of the largest areas, is also considering converting a gas boiler house into a hot boiler house with chipping wood. At the same time, there are very small regions that are considering the same thing. So the boiler houses are different. Currently, this technology is not dealt with in Estonia. But who knows what happens when there's use.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U191	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U192	Madam Minister! In principle, the goal for 2015 is for local authorities to complete general plans. What you propose to record in the heat management development plan is when general plans are approved by the municipality or city council, several times discussed. I have a practical experience. A colleague is well aware of what happened on Kukruse five or six years ago when we tried to go to the woods for heating. The quality deteriorated, the heat couldn't get in. I believe that it is now possible to cut 13 million blocks of wood, but we are only cutting 9 million, which means that 3 to 4 million will go for what you are proposing. How many district heating regions out of 230 have you consulted and how did the negotiations go? I'm sorry the question went too long!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U193	Thank you. It is all the better if the general plans are ready and the municipalities are ready to apply if they want public funds. The State is not obliged in any way to delay until 2017, but rather the possibility that it should be ready by then. A longer time was given, because not everyone may be ready so soon. But the country is ready to support from the beginning of the new year when the development plan for the thermal economy has been completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U194	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U195	I'm sorry! I didn't answer how many people have been negotiated. I can't say the number, but the interest and expectation that this bill will be passed as a law is generally high. There is interest in how far this bill is being, because it wants to move forward on this issue. Certainly not all 230 district heating areas are like this, but we're starting somewhere, and if there is already a success experience, this information will move on. I think this is the first long step. If there are any improvements and suggestions on this, I am always in favour of making things better. In this sense, too, the democratic state is well structured to have several readings on draft laws. Improvements can be made after the first reading. If there are good ideas, why not discuss them and consider them?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U196	Thank you very much, Minister Palo. I would like to ask for further reflections to be gathered and presented at the same time. I would like to ask Kalle Palling, Member of the Economic Affairs Committee, for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U197	I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U198	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good ministers! Colleagues! First of all, as an introduction, this is a very good bill. As a result of this draft, we will invest EUR 78 million in the district heating sector, reduce dependence on Russian gas, make our district heating sector more environmentally friendly and, most importantly, reduce people's indoor bills in the future. During the discussion in the Committee on Economic Affairs prior to the first reading of the draft Act amending the Law on district heating, Mr Urve Palo, Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, and Mr Rein Vaks, expert of the Energy Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, took part in the discussion, who gave an overview of the content of the draft and replied to further questions. The Commission meeting at which this draft was discussed took place on Monday, 19 May. I will give an overview of the seven questions raised at the committee meeting. First of all, the question was the Competition Authority's proposal, which provides that all district heating areas with a sales volume of less than 10000 megawatt-hours would go outside the regulation of the Competition Authority. The answer given by the Ministry of Economic Affairs was that the Competition Authority must also monitor these regions to ensure that consumers are protected from excessive price increases. An overview of how the reference price is generated was requested. It is currently suggested that the reference price is one specific price throughout Estonia. It is designed according to the region of an efficient district heating network, with an average sales volume of 22000 megawatt-hours in Estonia and a minimum loss of network. The remaining reference figures come from the Competition Authority database, which includes indicators of the costs of all Estonian district heating companies, sales volumes, efficiency etc. If the price of heat rises by more than 5% per year in the region, the heat company will have to go back to the Competition Authority, which will review the justification of the price increase. Third, it was asked that if in some municipalities the new reference price is higher than the current price, would the heat producer be entitled to raise the heat price to the reference price level without coordinating the price increase. The answer is no. Before that, Minister Urve Palo answered more carefully. The question was that, if development plans were to be drawn up in all district heating regions, it would not be reasonable to consider setting a separate reference price for each district heating region instead of having a single reference price. The answer was no. This logic would essentially be the current logic, i.e. the logic of the marginal price. There was also a question that boiler plants use different energy sources and could, for example, consider setting different reference prices on this basis. One reference price could be at a boiler house that uses peat, another reference price at a boiler house that uses chipping wood, etc. The answer was that, if every proper municipality has a development plan where the questions of district heating need to be examined, the best or most appropriate type of heating in the region should be known. There was still a question of excluding the production of domestic hot water. It was also a question of the fact that the Cities Union and the Municipalities Association have pointed out that there could be a support measure from which local authorities could receive 100% funding for the development of district heating networks. The Minister has already responded nicely to this. In fact, 78 million euros will be distributed to grants, including half a million euros to prepare development plans. In addition, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications plans to develop a measure by autumn which is likely to be financed through KredEx and which also allows private owners to apply for support to replace an oil boiler against, for example, a steam boiler or an air heat pump. Perhaps private homes follow the same logic as district heating areas, and the heating of private homes should become more efficient and environmentally friendly. All I have left now is procedural decisions. The decision to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 21 May was taken by the Commission at its meeting on 12 May; everyone was in agreement with it. The proposals to conclude the first reading (also a consensual decision) and to set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 5 p.m. on 4 June were made at the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs on Monday 19 May. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U199	Any questions for the co-rapporteur? The third question can no longer be asked. Does anyone want to ask another question? Let's hope it's okay. No further questions. Thank you very much, Kalle Palling. Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. The Commission's proposal is that the first reading of draft 609 should be completed. First reading is complete. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft at 5 p.m. on 4 June.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U200	Our next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the University Act and the Veterinary Organisation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please present the speech chair to Minister of Agriculture Ivari Padari!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U201	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The aim of the draft law amending the University Act and the Veterinary Organisation Act is to ensure the sustainability and continued international recognition of veterinary training in Estonia by means of additional dedicated funding. The modernisation of veterinary training in Estonia started in 2002. The Estonian University of Life Sciences received recognition of compliance with the quality requirements for international veterinary training in 2004 and the new recognition process will begin in 2015. Ensuring sustainability is a key challenge for recognition. This has also been highlighted in its evaluation report by the Organisation for Recognition of the European Association of Educational Institutes for Veterinarian Education. An analysis was carried out in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Research, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Estonian University of Life Sciences in 2012 to make proposals to assess the state of veterinary training and to ensure sustainability. This showed that the current funding of veterinary training through operating grants from the state budget and the university's own budget at the expense of other institutes does not ensure that the level achieved is maintained and that current public funding does not cover the costs of clinical studies for students. In addition, as a result of the higher education reform, the possibility of providing paid education in Estonian to foreign students has disappeared since 2013. The draft provides for additional funding from the state budget through the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture to ensure the sustainability and quality of clinical veterinary training. The separate management contract shall specify an amount of approximately EUR 550000 per year. This enables the Estonian University of Life Sciences to maintain international recognition of veterinary training after the evaluation procedure in 2015, to ensure continuity of high quality veterinary training and to attract, maintain and motivate skilled staff and students. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U202	Thank you very much. The question is on Helir-Valdor Seeder. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U203	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. It's a perfectly reasonable bill. While medical training is still largely funded through the Health Insurance Fund, veterinarians, or veterinarians, do not have an animal sickness fund and are therefore underfunded. The draft was discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The representative of the Ministry of Finance stated that the Ministry of Finance does not support the adoption of this draft as a law and that if this draft becomes a law, they will not plan any extra money, but will have to find this money within the limits of the Ministry of Agriculture. Is that possible? If this is the case, the adoption of the law will become meaningless because no extra money will be allocated from the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U204	That's a very big problem. This bill came from the previous government. My predecessor, a good questioner, might be better able to explain the process and the outcome, perhaps what was decided at the time in the government. In any case, I did not consider it reasonable to withdraw this draft, it makes more sense to deal with it today and to negotiate in the course of the drafting of the budget. At present, the Ministry of Agriculture is certainly unable to find these amounts from its own resources. It is also clear that if there is no financial cover, the sustainability and future of Estonian veterinary training will be very seriously questioned. So this argument is halfway through.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U205	Please, Jüri Morozov!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U206	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! Can you tell us what the current situation is in Estonia? How is Estonia covered with qualified veterinarians? If you look at the latest data, the dairy herd has increased and the number of animals is increasing. Do we have enough doctors to keep all these animals well?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U207	In Estonia, there are about 800 posts requiring vet qualifications. There are a hundred active veterinarians who have been licensed. Estonia needs more or less coverage in order to ensure that the whole area is covered in current or planned volumes, orientingly 25 more veterinarians each year. That's about how it's calculated. The situation now depends on the region, some areas are well covered by veterinarians, some areas are more difficult to find. We also know that veterinarians are going to work in Finland because there is not enough work in every area. Small-scale animals have been reduced and customers have also been reduced. As a result, some veterinarians certainly have fewer work and less bread.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U208	Thank you very much. No further questions. I ask Kalev Lillo, Member of the Rural Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U209	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft law was discussed twice by the Committee on Rural Affairs. On 22 April, when Pille Tammemägi, Deputy Head of Food Safety Department of the Ministry of Agriculture, Mait Klaassen, Rector of the Estonian University of Life Sciences, Ülle Jaakma, Director of the Institute of Veterinary Medicine and Animal Sciences, Andres Aland, and Professor Toomas Orro of the same institute, and Priit Koppel, President of the Estonian Association of Veterinarians. We addressed the issues that had arisen in connection with this draft. One question raised was the need for additional funding. We have learned from a ministerial representative that the request for additional funding has been made, but it is not known at the moment whether this money will be received. Indeed, there was a question, as Mr Seeder expressed, whether this bill should be dealt with at all if it is to be feared that there will be no money. We got the answer, I'm sure they're hoping to find the money. Therefore, since this financing model is slightly different from normal learning, we decided to turn to the Committee on Culture and the Committee on Monetary Affairs to get an opinion on funding from the Committee on Monetary Affairs and to know the Committee on Culture's understanding of whether this mixed funding is compatible with another system. At its meeting on 22 April, it was decided to appoint Kalev Lillo as rapporteur and to seek the opinion of the Committee on Culture and the Committee on Monetary Affairs, as I said. Both decisions were consensual. The Committee on Finance discussed the matter. We received a response from them, which can be summarised in such a way that the Commission did not formulate a position on which the above-mentioned activities should take place through the Ministry, nor on the underfunding of the sector. The Committee on Monetary Affairs considered that the transparency of the system of financing higher education should not be reduced. We also received a reply from the Committee on Culture, whose views can be summarised in such a way that the Commission considers it important that the funding of higher education institutions is unambiguous, ensuring a level playing field for all higher education institutions, based on their responsibilities. These views were discussed by the Committee on Rural Affairs at its meeting on 13 May. They were not the basis for a substantive debate. Procedural decisions were taken to send draft 627 to the Plenary Assembly by 21 May and to propose that the first reading of the draft be closed and that the deadline for submitting amendments be 10 working days, i.e. amendments to be tabled by 4 June 2014. All the decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U210	Thank you very much, dear waitress. There's a question for you. Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U211	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I listened to these round points from the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the Committee on Culture, and I had a question. Were you also wiser than those two dignified committee opinions on a specific draft and what you did with those opinions? In addition, I ask whether the Committee on Rural Affairs was talking about the specific amount that would be needed for veterinary training per year. One way is to fix and introduce this amount in the law, then also veterinary training providers have the confidence that there is funding. Was there a conversation or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U212	Thank you. I'll start at the end of the question. There was no mention of fixing a specific amount in the law. This amount is approximately EUR 550000 per year. That's what we were talking about. As regards whether we got smarter or we became dumber because of these answers, we certainly got smarter, because neither of the Commission opposed such an approach.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U213	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is that the first reading should be concluded. I will set the deadline for the submission of draft 627 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 4 June. The first reading is closed and the 14th item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U214	Let's move on to item 15. The first reading of the draft law on collective agreement and collective labour dispute resolution initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I ask for a presentation of the Riigikogu Chair Minister Urmas Kruuse!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U215	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! As a minister, I am pleased to present you with the draft law on collective agreement and collective labour dispute resolution submitted by the Government of the Republic to the Riigikogu on 17 March. This draft merges the law on collective agreements and collective labour dispute settlement, which entered into force in 1993, regulates the conclusion and termination of collective agreements, the resolution of a collective labour dispute, the organisation of a job interruption, the agreement of a minimum service in the event of a job interruption and the connection of a national mediator. The bill is characterised by a variety of collective employment relationships. The keywords are definitely a collective agreement, a collective labour dispute, strikes and trade unions. According to Statistics Estonia, 5.6% of Estonian employees belonged to the trade union in 2013. According to the collective agreement database, about 23% of organisations with more than five employees are covered by the collective agreement. Despite the fact that these figures may not seem to be very high at first glance, I think that collective employment is an issue that needs attention and up-to-date regulation. The aim of the draft is to create a modern regulation that takes account of socio-economic circumstances, which creates an appropriate legal framework for negotiating collective agreements and resolving collective labour disputes. The draft removes contradictions with the Constitution, which have also been highlighted by the Chancellor of Justice, such as advance notice of a support strike and the extension of the terms of the collective agreement. The draft sets out the preconditions for the extension of the collective agreement, which has so far been lacking, leads to improved legal clarity and solves the problems encountered. The draft also sets out a new procedure for the appointment of a national conciliator in order to resolve the potential situation under current law in which a national conciliator cannot be appointed because there is no agreement between the trade unions and the Confederation of Employers. In addition, there is a procedure for resolving conflicts of work in a special committee where workers are banned from strike, for example rescue workers. The procedures for determining the minimum service in the event of interruption of work, such as the extent to which one or another service should be ensured during the strike, are laid down. There is also an opportunity to agree on a full working peace. Compared to the current law, the draft does not explicitly provide for an increase in costs. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! This is a draft which will help to create the prerequisites for the further development of collective labour relations. I ask you to adopt the law on collective agreement and collective labour dispute resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U216	Thank you. You have questions. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U217	Thank you very much. Good minister! This draft will narrow down the right to strike and the number of workers who can strike. What is the position of the trade unions? Would you point by point those provisions where you and the trade unions differ? I am thinking here of wage negotiations and a number of other issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U218	Thank you. When it comes to differences between us and the trade unions, one disagreement has certainly been about the minimum service. We have foreseen that there should certainly be a representative of the ministry in this committee, which takes into account the area in which this strike is being dealt with. There have been questions about who will sign a contract of service on behalf of the officials. Trade unions have taken the view that there could also be a trade union representative not currently representing the collective. But we have been guided by the principle that if there is no union representative within the organisation and there is actually a trustee there could still be a trustee in line with ATS. There are certainly certain differences regarding the extension of the collective agreement. We are accustomed to negotiating the terms and conditions of leave and work and rest, but the trade unions have expressed their wish that we should also negotiate those issues that may be going beyond these frameworks. Let us say that they would also be willing to negotiate training and that it could be automatically extended to others, which we do not think is very right or fair.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U219	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U220	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I understand that it is difficult for you to answer my question because these negotiations at national level have been going on for several years and there are a lot of interest groups listed in the explanatory memorandum. But if you are proceeding from your preparation for what you have come to this Riigikogu, perhaps you can mention who is strongly opposed to us adopting this draft as a law?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U221	There is no one against the bill as such. When we are talking about individual points or nuances, it must be said that negotiations have certainly been very long. They started as consultations in 2012. But when we look at the international convention, we can say that it is in any case in line with the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U222	There's another question. Marika Tuus-Laul.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U223	I'm still asking you about tightening up strike rights. What claims are here, and who will be deprived of this right? Maybe you're also a little more specific about the terms'strek', 'warning strike' and'support strike'?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U224	Honorable member of the Riigikogu! What exactly do you mean by narrowing down this right to strike? If you are referring to the fact that civil servants cannot strike and their service relationships are regulated through the Civil Service Act, that is certainly the case. We have based ourselves on the principle that certain representatives are in a relationship with the State and, in the light of the logic of the security and functioning of the country as a whole, it would not be reasonable for them to strike. When we are talking about expansion, you could say that, through extension, certain strikes are narrowed down. If we are able to form a trade union with two organisations, the international concept is based on the logic that there should be more than 50% of the representatives of these disciplines there. Indeed, this is also a restrictive condition in this context.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U225	No further questions. Minister, thank you. Please present the Chair of the Riigikogu to the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U226	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Today we are discussing draft law on collective agreement and collective labour dispute resolution initiated by the Government of the Republic 623. The Social Committee discussed the draft law on collective agreement and collective labour dispute settlement initiated by the Government of the Republic before sending it to first reading at three sessions: 15, 14 and 12 April. At the first session, Minister Urmas Kruus gave an overview of the draft. The aim of the draft is to establish a legal framework for collective agreement negotiations and collective labour disputes. The draft regulation regulates the negotiation of collective agreements, the validity, application and amendment of collective agreements, the control of compliance with collective agreements and the extension of the conditions of collective agreements, the agreement on minimum rates of pay at national level, the registration of collective agreements and the maintenance of a collective agreement repository. The draft also regulates the resolution of the collective labour dispute, the interruption of work (type of interruption of work is a strike, a warning strike, a support strike and a close-out), the regulation of the national conciliator, as well as national supervision and accountability. Compared to the existing collective labour law framework, which includes both a separate collective agreement law and a collective labour dispute resolution law, both key issues of collective labour law are integrated into a single act. On 15 April a meeting took place with stakeholders where everyone could express their views. There was a lively discussion, attended by representatives of the Estonian Trade Union Confederation, the Estonian Employers' Confederation, TALO, the Central Labour Association, the National Conciliator, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Social Affairs. What were the main problems? In fact, Minister Urmas Kruuse has already brought them out. I note that there was a list of minimum services under discussion. Trade unions did not like the fact that there was also a ministerial representative on this three-member commission. The arrangements for limiting the minimum volume were also not suitable for trade unions. Similarly, public service employees have a contract of service and others have a collective agreement because, although people work in the same institution, the contracts and forms of agreement differ. There was also a wish that the cost of human resources for budgetary bodies should also be negotiated bilaterally between trade unions and the government in the country. It was also pointed out that some employees are subject to a collective agreement and others are subject to a service agreement, but the agreements that can be concluded with a collective agreement are much wider than those that can be concluded with a service contract. That is, in short, everything.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U227	What did the Commission decide?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U228	Yeah, the Commission's decisions. The Social Affairs Committee took its decisions on 15 April. The Commission decided to send the draft to its first reading by 21 May with a proposal to conclude the first reading of the draft. It was decided to propose a deadline of 10 working days for the submission of amendments. The decisions were taken by consensus. The rapporteur was appointed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U229	Thank you. There's a question for you. Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U230	Thank you. Mr President of the Commission. I don't have anything against Urmas Kruus, but I'm just asking for an education or a better understanding, because maybe I missed something. We have a note on the agenda that the waitress is Helmen Küht.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U231	But it was Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U232	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. I would like to ask the representative of the Social Democratic Party Group of the Riigikogu for a speech chair, Eiki Nestori!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U233	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! I'm sure I'll ask for more time! I can stay and talk.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U234	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U235	The reason I came here is primarily that the laws currently in force on the subject were passed in the Riigikogu in 1993. They were accepted in a situation where 101 people in this room probably knew something about this matter. He stands before you now, and he wrote these laws. Neither was the number of people who would have worked in ministries much greater. If you read these existing laws today, they seem even somewhat comical in our legal space now. They look more like guidance material, where there are also regulatory paragraphs, or some kind of description of how collective working relationships should be developed together with regulations. So the need for a new law has long been clear. It would also make sense to write a new law. A great victory in the intervening period has been that several good young lawyers have trained themselves both in Estonia and elsewhere in the world and have made the collective labour relations regulations of several countries clear. They now work in several offices, including the Office of the Chancellor of Justice. But I have noticed that there is also a 'little big' deficiency in their education. They compare national collective labour laws, but they probably have not been taught at school why in one country or another these laws are exactly the same as they are. There are very many similar principles in these laws, but the specificity is usually linked to one thing: the actual labour market situation in the countries is different. When we talk about France, for example, no one has ever regulated any right to strike in any way, but the French Constitution says that strike is free. That means any man can cross his car across the street and say he's on strike. When we're talking about the Nordic countries, it's the other way around. There is no right for a person to turn his car across the road like this without negotiation, conciliation and any other procedure, and to say that he will not work until he is raised. So these things are different. When we bring them into our laws, the following tricks intertwin with them. If you read this bill, you will see that once again it is a matter of who you are and where you come from that you want to enter into such agreements. Both the ILO and all other labour law are based on one simple principle. According to this principle, if the Government of the Republic of Estonia recognises the Estonian Employers' Confederation as an employers' association and as an association of Estonian Trade Unions Confederations and TALO employees, this is the point. Perhaps the first basic truth of collective labour relations regulation is that it starts with the recognition of each other. Nobody's gonna count how many percent they represent. It is important to know in the sense that if we change the principle of extension, we will simply be dealing with something that nobody needs. The current regulation is very simple. The parties have the right to enter into such a contract if they both agree. They register it at the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Social Affairs has the right to say that they do not know that whoever wants to conclude this agreement is a recognised organisation. Such agreements have only been concluded in two areas, as far as I know, over a period of ten years: health care and public transport. It has not been considered necessary to conclude them anymore and there has been no problem anywhere. The exception is one of the groups who began to resent, but who themselves have taken a clear and unambiguous decision at their general assembly that they are not an employers' union. If you can't imagine, don't imagine, and that's it, there's nothing else you can say or upset. The second problematic part of the draft relates to the Civil Service Act. After all, the idea that public service makes a clear distinction between officials and those employed on the basis of a contract of employment is, in principle, correct, and the working conditions of officials are defined by law and the working conditions of those employed on the basis of a contract of employment are agreed. However, as the process of processing the Civil Service Act became more vague and sometimes even incomprehensible, when we talk about, for example, the level of local government, the number of civil servants increased again enormously. Now to tell them that they are not entitled to enter into a collective agreement under the same conditions as other people is a clear violation of ILO principles. They must have exactly the same right to negotiate and conclude agreements. So these provisions of the law are now different. We can discuss them, but if the principle of a contract of service remains in it, then it must certainly be supplemented by rights, which must also be vested in officials. They do not have to lose them at all, and there is no right to deprive them of them. This bill was initiated by the previous government. They must be thanked very much because they worked hard and, in about 90% of the cases, they also reached an agreement with the social partners. Our group's proposal is that the 10% that was not agreed could now be agreed. We believe that Minister Kruuse, as agreed between coalition partners, will convene employers and employees. We agree to contribute to this agreement so that those legislative provisions, which have not yet been drafted as an agreement, can also be agreed. You can then believe that it will be one law, which is actually the law and which works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U236	Thank you. Urbo Vaarmann, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U237	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I'll ask you then. If we have a minister on the agenda who should come to the remote, but he doesn't come here, and the chairman of the committee doesn't know why, then maybe you can explain it. Was this report at all meaningful if this change had not been notified before?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U238	Good co-worker! At 2.01 p.m. or 2.02 p.m., perhaps a few minutes later, when this session was chaired by the President of the Riigikogu Eiki Nestor, he read a statement that at the debate on today's 15th item, the draft law on collective agreement initiated by the Government of the Republic and the resolution of the collective labour dispute at first reading 623, the initiator will make a presentation by Minister Urmas Kruuse. Such a request had come to the board of the Riigikogu from the government, i.e. the executive authority, the ministry. No further questions, I'll close the negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline of 4 June at 5.15 p.m. for the submission of the draft 623 amendments. The first reading is closed and the 15th item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U239	Let's move on to item 16. The first reading of the Act amending the State Family Benefits Act, the Social Welfare Act and the Act on the Grant of International Protection to Aliens, initiated by the Government of the Republic, begins. Minister of Social Affairs Helmen Küti, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U240	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I am very pleased today to present a draft, which I think will receive great support in this Chamber and which is consensually supported. This draft has been discussed at length by the various political parties and has been raised in several electoral periods. If this draft is adopted as a law, child benefits will eventually increase, which has remained unchanged for 11 years. The aim of the draft is to reduce child poverty by supporting families with children at a higher rate and more effectively. According to the draft, universal child benefit for all families with children will be increased. The amount of child benefit shall be established in a specific amount and shall not be related to the rate of child benefit in the future. Child benefit is a monthly allowance paid to a child from birth to the age of 16. When a child learns, it is paid until he or she reaches the age of 19. In order to improve the livelihood of families, the consumption weight of children when determining income support is made equal to the consumption weight of the first member of the family. This means that the income support for families with children will increase. There is also an increase in need-based family benefits, which are paid specifically to families with lower incomes and to those with greater difficulties in coping. The bill amends the State Family Benefits Act, the Social Welfare Act and the International Protection Act for Aliens. Now I am talking specifically about the law and its impact. The aim of the draft is to improve the well-being of families with children. From 1 January 2015, universal child benefit for all children will rise. Compared to 2014, child benefit for the first and second children will increase from €19.18 per month to €45 per month. Child benefit for the third and each subsequent child will increase from EUR 76,72 to EUR 100 per month. It is particularly important that families in difficult situations who receive income support have an increased need-based family allowance. The allowance for a single-child family, currently EUR 9.59, will be EUR 45 from 1 January 2015 and the need-based allowance for two or more children will increase from EUR 19.18 to EUR 90. Let's look at history. In 2004, when the child benefit rate was 19.18 euros, the average pension in Estonia was 143 euros, currently the average pension is 353 euros, while the child benefit for single- and two-child families is still 19.18 euros. The impact of this bill is certainly great, and it is families with children who will be happy to receive great help and support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U241	Good waitress, you have questions. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U242	Thank you. Madam Minister! If the draft law is adopted, budget expenditure will increase by at least EUR 82 million. We will see how distressed the Minister of Finance is with the budget for next year. We read that our economy went down pretty hard in the first quarter. What are we taking the money we need, and what will happen next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U243	Thank you, good questioner! The subject of the draft is an increase in child benefits. The procedure of the budget in the Riigikogu will be followed, then the state's expenditure and revenue will be examined and their consistency will be examined. It is appropriate to address this question to the Minister of Finance. On the basis of today's draft, child benefits will rise. I guess those are coming from the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U244	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U245	Thank you. Good minister! The need-based family allowance will be paid at 90 euros for two or more children. The law doesn't make a difference whether there are two or five children in the family. Why does this support not increase with an increase in the number of children? That makes sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U246	Thank you. The need-based family allowance is currently EUR 9.59 for one child, with a family of two or more children receiving EUR 19.18. The same principle has been followed in the case of a new allowance: for one child the allowance shall be EUR 45, for at least two children the need-based family allowance shall be EUR 90. If there are three, four or five children in the family, there is no doubt that every child's child benefit is 100 euros from the third child. This reduces the risk of child poverty. But only the amounts, not the principles, are changed in the need-based family allowance regulation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U247	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U248	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, The Centre Party has proposed to exclude child support from the calculation of income support so that the impact of this support can reach the poorer families. If the government really wants to support those in need, shouldn't the Central Party's proposal be supported?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U249	Thank you for your question. In the draft, we have found the possibility that the child's subsistence limit would be equal to that of the first family member. If, at present, the first member of the family has a living limit of EUR 90 and 72 for each of the next family members, the children will become equal to the first family member on 1 January 2015, if the bill is implemented as a law, that is to say, 90 euros. It can certainly be said that this 18-euro rise is too small, but according to the bill it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U250	Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U251	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. According to the latest data from Statistics Estonia, one in five under 18 years of age lived below the relative poverty threshold in 2012. The poverty rate of kindergarten families varies almost 6.5 times in local governments. What regional impact may result from support being the same everywhere, but the difference in the level of poverty is very high?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U252	Thank you for your question. In fact, there was an answer to your question in part. Indeed, the relationship between child poverty and the implementation of this bill as a law will certainly not change. The situation of children simply becomes better when child benefits increase and the child is equal to the first member of the family when calculating income support. From poverty, people bring out work and the opportunity to work. But it is certainly important that this assistance is provided for in the following drafts, which will be coming to this Chamber of the Riigikogu very soon. For example, it is important to have childcare facilities or kindergarten places, because if a child has a kindergarten place, the parent can go to work. Children's benefits alone are certainly not going to get the family out of poverty. However, they will ease the situation and improve the well - being of children.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U253	Liisa-Ly Pakosta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U254	Thank you. Dear Minister, I ask you, as a Social Democrat, who has really been interested in improving the situation of children for a long time. As of now, the Act, which enters into force on 1 January 2015, excludes an additional child benefit of EUR 38.36 from the calculation of income support. The Social Democrats criticised this distinction very strongly just a few months ago, yet you have continued with the exact same model in the draft. What has caused your change of heart?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U255	Thank you. I will respond today as Minister of Social Affairs of the Republic of Estonia. The situation has improved since then. A child's subsistence limit of 90 euros, like that of the first family member, will certainly ease the situation of families. Secondly, it is important that, as under the current arrangements, the need-based additional family allowances, which were earlier EUR 9.59 and EUR 19.18, are not taken into account when determining income support, and that the new year will be EUR 45 and EUR 90. This will certainly make things easier for families and children. Whether €19.18 or €90 here is a pretty big difference. In the past, there were slightly more than 10% of the planned need-based family allowances, or around 3200 instead of 30000. I very much hope that if this amount increases, there will also be more applicants. This support would help many families. The Ministry of Social Affairs has planned an information campaign to invite families to take this opportunity. You need not be ashamed to apply for this support.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U256	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U257	Thank you. Good minister! Okay, the child becomes equal to the first member of the family. But our question is still about income support. Why is child benefit included in the income of the family when determining income support? You have said that if this were not done, this would increase the risk of families becoming trapped in unemployment. That's the expression. How do you figure that out? Can it be concluded that the benefits for families with coping difficulties are too high? How would this increase the unemployment trap?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U258	Thank you for your question. In fact, this expression comes from several studies. They compare minimum wages and benefits, and it has been argued that a person can often be more useful at home, receiving various benefits when working for a minimum wage. Often people who work for the minimum wage are also called underprivileged. I myself do not share this view, because I think that it is very important for a person's dignity when he or she is working and has the opportunity to participate in society's life. However, studies have shown that people are considering whether to go to work for a minimum wage, if the benefits allow for almost equal or even better living.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U259	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U260	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! During those years, when you encountered social problems in the municipality, you certainly had to hear repeatedly and repeatedly the frustrating claim that child benefits should not be raised precisely because unnecessary children are born into this world only in order for their parents to receive a great deal of money. How have you disproved such comments or opinions in the municipality and elsewhere? Maybe you could give me an example.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U261	Thank you for your question. I have always believed that child benefits have been too small in Estonia. Certainly, children are not born to get money from parents, but it is easier to raise children with money. When I answered one of the previous questions, I gave an example that when the child benefit was fixed at EUR 19.18 in 2004, the average pension was EUR 143. Now the average pension is 353 euros, but the child benefit is still the same. Is EUR 45 enough for the first and the second children, or is it too little? I think we need to increase this amount, but right now, we have our capabilities and opportunities. In fact, with the help of all of us from 1 January, these families will receive some relief. At the same time, it should be borne in mind that a third child is not born if there is no first or second child in the family.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U262	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U263	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! First of all, I congratulate the Socialists on the fact that you have managed to bring such a draft here, because we have not managed to get very far in the past. Last November, the Centre Party Group proposed to increase the child allowance for both the first and second children. Then it was not considered necessary. According to our draft, by 2017 child benefits would have been equalized to EUR 57.54. But how do you think the future EUR 45 child support will satisfy the needs of today's children?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U264	Thank you for your question. I believe that in November, when you tabled the draft, the Social Democrats supported it. We are happy, and I personally am also very happy that we have the opportunity to increase this support from 1 January. What if, in the future, we raise it to 57 euros together?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U265	Liisa-Ly Pakosta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U266	Thank you. Dear Minister, Unfortunately, you didn't answer my last question. I fully agree with the positive aspects that you have pointed out. However, my question concerned the amendment of § 222 (2) (7) of the Social Welfare Act. You have criticised this principle quite rightly and very strongly in the past. I will ask you what made you proceed with this point of criticism that was so acute in the past.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U267	Thanks again for the question. I do believe, however, that I partly answered you. However, equalising the child with the first family member leaves 18 euros more child benefit for the family. This means that the family will have EUR 90 instead of EUR 78. As far as previous criticism is concerned, it is indeed not an ideal draft. Surely more and better can be done for children. But these are the possibilities of the state now, so let's do better together. I think that there are many topics that will be discussed before the Riigikogu elections and that the political parties will present their principles. Today we are taking this step.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U268	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U269	Thank you. Honourable waitress! My question is not directly about the bill, but about child benefits. I fully agree with you that it is not only through subsidies that poverty can be eradicated, but that in order to get out of poverty a person needs the opportunity to work, earn and get paid and a decent internal income. The population census data published by Statistics Estonia in 2013 show that the lowest birth rate per woman is not an absolute figure, because the birth rate per woman, in my opinion, offers an objective comparison in the most prosperous regions: Tallinn, Harjumaa, Tartu, Rakvere and Viljandi. Only 14 periphery municipalities have a birth rate exceeding the so-called recovery level and above 2.2. What can be done? It seems, however, that wealth does not give birth to children in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U270	Yes, prosperity certainly does not lead to children being born. As you probably know, children are born of love. Viljandi is our hometown, but I'm not so sure he's a very wealthy city. Nibin-nabin's gonna end up with his end, and he's gonna do better than that. We're running Viljandi together. But what can we do about it? It's difficult to answer. I cannot tell you what to do, because this is also a problem in very wealthy countries, such as Sweden, where the situation is not actually good, the number of children is low. Although it is supposedly the universal child benefit paid in these countries, it has ensured that it still has a birth rate. But I don't know what to do today. I think it is not an 11 or 10 month question, but it is a question for all of us 101 and also for the government. I hope that this law may also have more children. If he is born on the outskirts of the country, it is great, because it is always nice when a child is born without it, and it is especially nice when this child is born here in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U271	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U272	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I will take this opportunity to ask you how you feel, Madam Secretary, about parental pay. Is it fair that up to the age of 1.5, the cost of children is 170 million euros from the state budget and 110 million euros from the rest of the time, up to the age of 18? Are these proportions fair?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U273	Thank you. That's a very good question. I hope that the part of this bill that comes in addition to parental benefit will increase slightly and this gap will decrease. I think that this bill also has the objective of reducing this distinction.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U274	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I would like the Chair of the Riigikogu to be chaired by Heljo Pikhof, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U275	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good fellows! The Social Affairs Committee met on 15, 19 and 21 May to prepare for the first reading of draft law 669. At its meeting on 15 May, the decision was taken to send the draft to the first reading of the plenary room. On 21 May a Commission rapporteur was appointed. A substantive debate on the draft provisions took place on 19 May. Draft 669 of the Reform Party and Social Democratic Party Government Union was presented by Minister of Social Affairs Helmen Kütt. Let me now briefly talk about the bill. The allowance for the first and second children has remained unchanged for ten years and is in current currency EUR 19.18. According to the draft, all universal child benefits would grow from January next year. The first and second children of the family would be paid EUR 45 and the third and the next children would receive EUR 100 per month. The growth in the support of the first and second children also improves the livelihood of families with many children. At the end of 2013, according to the Social Insurance Board, there were 158585 families in Estonia receiving child benefit and 250775. Families with three or more children accounted for over 10% of all families receiving child benefit. One - child families, 56% of whom were overweight, and the number of two - child families has remained in the range of 31 to 34%. Over the years, the number of families receiving child benefit, as well as the number of children growing in these families, has decreased. It expresses the unmistakable truth: if the family does not have the first child, neither the second and third children will be born, nor the next children. In order to improve the living situation of families in difficulty, the child's consumption weight is made equal to that of the first member of the family when determining the income support. The need-based family allowances paid to families on low incomes will also be increased. At present, the need-based family allowance for a single child is 9.59 euros per month and the allowance for a two or more children is 19.18 euros per month. For the coming year, the need-based family allowance would be EUR 45 and EUR 90 per month, respectively. From the beginning of the coming year, all families with children receiving income support will also receive needs-based family support, only on the basis of an application; no additional documents will be required. As a result of increasing the child's consumption weight in determining income support, the level of support paid to children of asylum seekers will also change as the level of income support is paid to asylum seekers. According to the draft, universal child benefit for all children will be increased and set as a specific amount, which will not be related to the rate of child benefit in the future. Child benefit is a monthly allowance paid from the birth of the child until the child reaches the age of 16. If the child continues his/her studies, the child benefit will continue until the child reaches the age of 19. The needs-based family allowance target families with low-income children and children in these families. Thus, if the family's income falls below the set income limit, the family will also receive needs-based family allowance. In 2015, the income limit for the first member of the household will be EUR 329 and the absolute poverty limit will be EUR 196. If the family's income is equal to or greater than the subsistence limit, no need-based family allowance is paid to the family. According to Statistics Estonia, 18.1% of 17-year-olds and younger children lived below the limit of relative poverty in 2012, an estimated 44000 children under the age of 18. Income support was granted to 6123 families with children in 2013, and 11145 children under the age of 18 grew in these families. If the bill is implemented as a law, as the Minister said, the number of families with children living in absolute poverty and relative poverty will decrease. During the discussion of the draft act, some questions arose in the Commission. The question was asked about the inclusion of income from child support, about the limit of absolute and relative poverty, about the formula for calculating relative poverty, and about where the money comes from to increase child support. It was also asked whether it would not have been more appropriate to start by excluding child benefit from income in the calculation of income support. It was decided to propose that the first reading be closed, that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 11 a.m. on 2 June and that Mr Pikhof be appointed rapporteur for the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U276	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Is there a desire to negotiate? It's what you want. I'm opening negotiations. I ask the representative of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union of the Riigikogu, who is Liisa-Ly Pakosta! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U277	Ladies and gentlemen, For the second time in a short time, I will be able to speak on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union on the subject of this draft. I am not going to repeat the things I have already said as a representative of the Minister's political statement from the IRL. This bill undoubtedly brings joy because there are a number of very correct approaches and intelligent solutions. I am thinking, for example, of equalising the child with the first member of the family when calculating income support. The overall increase in family benefits is undoubtedly very positive, as is the improvement of the situation of the children of asylum seekers. However, I would stress that there are some concerns here. I'll start with the technical appearance of this bill. It may be said that this is of little importance, but I do think that an increase in child benefits as important as the increase in child benefits should not be justified in the explanatory memorandum merely by the explanation that all this is happening just because two political parties have taken such a decision. Clearly, there are other reasons and reasons for raising child benefits and, in fact, changing the whole system. It is a matter of whether they can be accepted or not, but I have not seen such a little reasoned draft for a long time, frankly. In this respect, it was welcome to hear the speech of the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee. In the Committee on Social Affairs, there has also been a slight approach to the real reasons why this bill is on the table. I hope that the Committee on Social Affairs will find an opportunity to complement the draft explanatory memorandum, include calculations, explanations and justifications. I find it rude to both social workers and families with children that everything that should actually be in the draft explanatory memorandum is excluded from it. Now I will go to the substance of the draft, and perhaps the reason why this explanatory statement is so scarce will be revealed. From 1 January 2015, child benefit should rise to EUR 95,9 from the third child on the basis of a law already in force. Unfortunately, we can see from the bill that in those families where poverty is greatest and who need the support of the state the most, the rise in families of many children is only 4.1 euros per child. Yes, I fully agree that the first and other children of the family are also in need of additional money, but if the draft is intended to reduce poverty in families, it is certainly not enough to raise child support from the third child to just EUR 4.1. However, I will also improve the Minister's speech here. According to the draft and the explanatory memorandum, the amount of income is not EUR 45 instead of EUR 38.36, i.e. the difference is only EUR 6.64. This also EUR 6.64 is undoubtedly a large sum, but it is perhaps a little over-stretched to put an end to poverty. At the same time, I very much agree with what the Minister said that it is the work that will get out of poverty. Better opportunities for families to reconcile child rearing and work and more flexible opportunities for parents to provide work will undoubtedly have a very important impact. However, the bill does not deal directly with this. But I hope that there will be political consensus on these issues. I would also stress that this savings on the account of families with many children are probably due to the fact that there is not enough money in the state budget. But are many-child families, who have a small percentage of society and so few voters, really the part of Estonian society that is right to save? We are of the opposite opinion in the Fatherland and Res Publica Union and believe that the child benefit rate has justified itself so far. We can see this very clearly from the schedules that show the exponential increase in birth rates after child benefits were raised since the third child. These are the facts, ladies and gentlemen of the current temporary government, which cannot be ignored. However, this positive policy, which has already been proven, will be changed in the draft without any analysis or justification. If you look at the draft text again with a critical eye, I will also highlight the concern I asked about earlier. Indeed, it is somewhat difficult to take account of family income when determining income support. The Social Democrats have very strongly criticised the compromise that was achieved by raising child support between the Isamaa and Res Publica Union and the Reform Party. I am actually sorry that you so easily gave up on this rather confusing regulation, which was not very happy about in our Union of Fatherland and Res Publica. But once again, it was a compromise in order to move forward on the subject of child benefits. It didn't suit the Reform Party that way again. It is a pity that the Social Democrats have buried their darts of criticism, and we are now continuing with a rather confusing regulation. However, I have the hope that the Social Committee will find a solution to this issue, because it is relatively marginal in terms of expenditure on the state budget, and these calculations should be reflected in the explanatory memorandum of the draft. In conclusion, we stress that the rise in child support for the first and second children is very welcome, but only the rise of EUR 4.1 per child from the third child of the family is obviously too small. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U278	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Karel Rüütli, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu. I will tell the other political groups that if you have a call request, turn on the button in good time. Please, Karel!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U279	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very happy to stand here today and say that child support will rise again from EUR 19 to EUR 45 per month from the new year to the first and second children who have caused embarrassment for more than ten years and years, and from EUR 76.72 to EUR 100 per month for the third and next children. We have therefore stopped simply talking about the disgraceful situation and have taken action. However, I would like to make it clear to the previous speaker that, indeed, the third child's allowance will rise to EUR 5, but the first and second child's allowance will be EUR 26, i.e. the three-child family will win some EUR 60 each month. As Minister of Social Affairs Helmen Kütt pointed out last Monday on this very floor, this is a historic draft that concerns nearly 270000 children, their parents and, indirectly, all the people of Estonia. It is a bill that will improve the well-being and livelihood of our families as early as next year, but it is also a significant investment in the future. More than twofold increase in universal child support is an important step towards increasing the sense of family security. The universal family benefit system supports the principle that every child is valuable, reduces inequality and prevents child labelling. Monthly child benefit supports the development of the child throughout the child's life and helps the parent to plan the cost of the child in the long term. We all know for a long time that the chain is as strong as its weakest link. By bringing this parallel to the level of society, we can compare the chain link to the family where children grow. When we analyse the data from Statistics Estonia, we see fear-causing figures: 17% of children live in relative poverty and 9.5% of children live in absolute poverty. Child poverty is not just a number of people, it is the young people who will have a significant impact on the welfare of our society in the future. The limited development opportunities, uncertainty, and disheartened values experienced in childhood have an impact on the ability of an individual to cope as an adult. In order to reduce child poverty, it is not enough to increase child benefits alone; other measures are also needed, which we have started in the new government. At the end of April, the government approved a budget strategy for 2015-2018, the priority of which is to reduce child poverty. In addition to financial benefits and benefits, a number of services, services that children can use regardless of their parents' decisions, play an important role in improving the living conditions of their families as well as in alleviating poverty. I would like to highlight the free school food that all upper secondary school students will receive from 1 January. Yeah, it's a question of worldview. The Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance are clearly opposed to this in the political statements that have been made so far. I am pleased that after the release of government, it is also possible to get to know the pain points of the Estonian people. The draft will increase the benefits for families most in need. If in 2014 the need-based family allowance for one child is EUR 9.59, it will be EUR 45 from the beginning of 2015. The need-based family allowance for families with two or more children will increase from €19.18 to €90. In order to better support families with children, there is an increase in the subsistence limit for household members under 18 years of age. Since the beginning of 2015, household members under 18 years of age have an income limit equal to that of the first household member. Although the Social Democrats have advocated a three-fold rise in child benefits, i.e. 60 euros, we are satisfied with the result achieved in a situation where the previous government did not plan for any growth in child benefits. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U280	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U281	Eliminating child poverty and turning birth rates up are very difficult tasks. Today, there is a draft before you that will allow very strong steps to be taken towards these objectives. But that's not enough. Already in the coming years, new measures and services for children will have to be implemented, which will help them to develop as much as possible, as well as better reconcile work and family life for parents. We need to get on these tasks, because Estonia, as a small country, simply has no other way. As a note, I would point out that if the representative of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, Liisa-Ly Pakosta, said that the draft does not have an impact analysis, in fact, there is an impact analysis. It's on page 11. It is a pity that a good colleague did not have a thorough examination of this draft. If he had, we might not have heard such bitter and bitter remarks about this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U282	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The lead committee has proposed to close the first reading of draft 669. I will set the deadline for the submission of draft 669 amendments at 11 a.m. on 2 June. The first reading is closed and the 16th item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U283	Let's move on to item 17. The first reading of the draft law amending the Law on Audit Activities and the Law on Securities Markets initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. It is a great honour to ask the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi for a speech chair in the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U284	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The draft law amending the Law on Audit Activities and the Law on Securities Markets aims to make the current regulation more legal and to transpose into Estonian law the statutory audit provisions of the Company Law Directive on annual accounts. The transposition of the Directive clarifies the regulation and supervision of auditors and audit entities from third countries that audit the annual report of companies issued on the Tallinn Stock Exchange. Changes to be made for reasons of legal clarity are the first regulation of the accounting review. There is no regulation of the revision in the current law. The amendment establishes the general basis for the accounting review as part of the internal control system. The scope of the review and the control procedures shall be fixed by the body designated by the review, the whole or person or the reviewer. The draft describes the minimum activities to be carried out in the examination of the annual accounts. Secondly, the requirements for continuing training as a sworn auditor will be made more flexible. So far, the sworn auditor has had to complete at least 40 hours a year, and he will have to do so for 120 hours in three years. Thirdly, the regulation of a voluntary winding-up permit for an audit firm is introduced. A member of the management board of an audit firm must submit an application to the supervisory board before deciding on the winding-up of an audit firm. The Board of Supervisors may refuse voluntary termination where a supervisory procedure has been initiated against an audit firm or a related sworn auditor. Fourthly, one minor contradiction between the examination fees and the limits on statutory fees will be eliminated. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U285	Minister, thank you. There are no questions. Please present the Chair of the Riigikogu, Vice-Chairman of the Economic Commission Toomas Tõniste!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U286	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed this draft at its meeting on 12 May. The meeting of the committee was attended by Kurmet Ojamaa, Head of the Department of Enterprise and Accounting Policy of the Ministry of Finance, and Gaili Parts, lawyer of the same department, who presented an overview of the objectives and content of the draft and answered further questions. I will briefly summarise the questions and the debate. According to the bill, a majority of 51% of the shares must be held by a sworn auditor responsible for the association. The concept of association is related to the concept of majority, i.e. if it is less than 51%, it is not defined. Most of the concept is derived from the Directive, according to which auditors are associated with the company by majority, i.e. the majority of the votes represented by the shares must be held by the sworn auditor. The definition of the related person in the draft is necessary in relation to supervision. This shall apply if the audit firm or the statutory auditor wishes to terminate his or her activities. In the case of a pending supervisory procedure, the auditor cannot be allowed to withdraw the invitation voluntarily until the supervisory procedure has been completed. We learned that the professional examination fees that the bill seeks to raise are not a state fee, but a public obligation laid down in § 113 of the Constitution. The fees shall be based on the size of the examination fee established by the International Association of Internal Auditors. There is no direct obligation to implement it, but the Ministry of Finance considers that the international exam ensures better quality of the activities of internal auditors. The Audit Board also submitted its comments and proposals on the draft. We certainly intend to involve its members in future discussions. I add, on my own account, that one of the biggest question marks is overregulation here. It is necessary to carry out a thorough review of the need for regulation in one case or another. It was decided to send the draft to the plenary session by 21 May and to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for the submission of amendments be set at 17 p.m. on 28 May. All these decisions were made unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U287	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I set the deadline of 28 May at 5 p.m. for the submission of draft amendments to draft text 613. The first reading is closed and the 17th item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U288	Let's move on to item 18. The first reading of the draft law amending the Gambling Tax Act and the Tax Administration Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, begins. Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U289	Honourable Chairman and Members of the Riigikogu! This draft changes the tax base of gambling, the procedures for submitting declarations and the date of payment of the tax. In order to ensure a more uniform tax burden for game operators, the tax object of a slot machine is transformed into two components. The inventory-based tax object is supplemented by a turnover-based component: the sum of the contributions made by the gamer on all slot machines less winnings. The inventory-based tax rate is EUR 300 and 10% on turnover. The tax rate for slot machines is currently EUR 447,35. The time limit for declaring and paying gambling tax on slot machines and tables shall be set at the 15th day of the month following the tax period. The declaration of gambling tax will be adjusted, depending on the mode of play, the tournament and tournament tax must be declared separately. The tax object of land-based tournaments is changed by 5% of the fee charged by the tournament operator. The current taxation of the participation fee for tournaments has been too burdensome and therefore, in recent years, no major tournaments have been organised in Estonia. The changes are expected to generate EUR 2 million in the national budget in 2016 and EUR 2.3 million in 2017. The law could enter into force from 1 February 2015. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U290	Thank you! There are no questions. Please present the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Finance Committee, Rannar Vassilyev.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U291	Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Finance discussed this draft at its meeting on 12 May. The focus of the Commission's discussion was on the impact of the draft. Indeed, in 2015, the impact on the state budget will be negative, and later the draft will increase revenue. It was examined which factors were taken into account. The impact assessment takes into account three components: a change related to the moment of tax declaration and payment, a change in the object and rate of slot machines, and a change in the tax object of gambling tournaments on land. In 2015, the impact of the change on the state budget will be negative, amounting to EUR 0.7 million. The law will be enforced from 1 February 2015, as enforcement on 1 January would reduce the 2014 revenue already taken into account in the preparation of the budget. In the year of entry into force, the negative effects are mainly linked to the presentation of a tax return on gambling and the introduction of a common date for the payment of the tax. Gambling organizers on the table and on the slot machine are currently required to pay the tax 55 days earlier compared to other game operators. This means that if, for example, a slot machine breaks down before the start of the tax period, the tax still has to be paid. By harmonising the dates for the submission of gambling tax returns and payment of the tax, the state budget will receive a one-off reduction of EUR 2 million in 2015, while the new rate for slot machines will increase the collection rate by EUR 1.47 million and the two changes will result in a total reduction of EUR 0.46 million in 2015. A detailed overview of the effects is set out in the explanatory memorandum. The budgetary impact has been positive since 2016. It also examined the reasons for making the taxation of slot machines more complex. The current inventory-based tax rate was simple and understandable, and the new combined system adds a VAT-based ATM payment rate to it. However, the new system will ensure a more equal treatment of game operators. Toy operators would only have wanted a turnover-based system, but there was a risk that turnover could be manipulated more than machines. There is currently no VAT. If, in the case of slot machines, a partially inventory-based tax object is retained, it mitigates the risks that may arise only from turnover-based taxation. It also examined the extent to which inequality existed in the current system. According to the Estonian Association of Gambling Organisers, the tax burden on gambling operators with a larger volume of bets was less than 20% in 2010, while the tax burden on gambling operators with a smaller volume of bets could reach up to 78%. In 2010, the average tax burden was 29%. If the bill is adopted as a law, the difference should decrease. It was also asked whether ex post declaration would not lead to the risk of non-declaration of obligations. It was answered that the electronic gambling reporting system allows the movement of bets and winnings to be monitored and, where necessary, to compare these data with the data in the books' cash registers and automatic machines' own memory. The same system should ensure the reliability of turnover-based data. As a result, procedural decisions were taken: the proposal is to close the first reading and set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 29 May.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U292	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I shall set the deadline for the submission of draft 653 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 29 May. The first reading is closed and the 18th item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U293	Let's move on to item 19. The first reading of the draft law amending the Waste Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Keit Pentus-Rosimannud, Minister of the Environment of the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U294	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! You have received a draft law amending the Waste Act, the main objective of which is to improve the collection, reuse and recovery of WEEE. Yesterday we discussed a new waste management plan in this hall. This draft is directly in line with what we discussed yesterday and is at the same rhythm. The changes contained in the draft will result in a reduction in the number of WEEE that is landfilled or illegally abandoned, a reduction in the need for new raw materials and, of course, fewer waste. The draft specifies the definition of EEE manufacturer. The persons subsequently considered to be producers shall be included in the list of distance sellers, i.e. the person who markets the products exclusively on the Internet. According to the draft, only the person who markets the equipment on the Estonian market and not on the European Union market as a whole, as previously stated, is the producer. Several changes relate to the re-use of WEEE, for example by obliging producers to design electrical and electronic equipment in a way that facilitates reuse, dismantling and recycling. From now on, it is necessary to ensure that the instructions for use of EEE are available and available for 10 years after the product has been placed on the market, so that re-use centres can contribute to the EEE used. Regulation will also be added to re-use centres, which will, inter alia, deal with used electrical and electronic equipment. Rules shall be laid down to facilitate the extraction and reuse of waste electronics which are working from waste or which can be easily repaired, and rules shall also apply to the sale of such equipment, including a six-month compulsory sale guarantee for EEE purchased from a re-use centre. As a new requirement, distributors with more than 400 square metres of sales space at the point of sale are obliged to collect small WEEE with a longest side length of up to 25 centimetres. These include mobile phones, flashlights, and some electronic toys. It shall also oblige producers or producer responsibility organisations representing them to ensure that collection containers for the collection of such small WEEE are available at points of sale. So, honourable Riigikogu, this is an exceptionally sensible draft. I ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U295	Thank you, Minister. There are no questions about this sensible bill for you. Jaanus Tamkivi, Member of the Environment Committee of the Riigikogu Chair, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U296	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu discussed the draft law at its meeting on 12 May 661. The draft presented a brief summary to the members of the committee and answered questions from Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of the Environment, Harry Liiv. He sent the Commission a message that the purpose of the draft is to transpose into Estonian law a new directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on waste electrical and electronic equipment. In order to transpose the Directive, the law mainly clarifies the concepts deriving from the Directive and changes are mainly of a regulated nature. The most important changes to the law relate to the re-use of electrical and electronic equipment. Harry Liiv spoke at length about this draft law in the Commission, but since the Minister has already presented it to us in a very constructive manner, I will not repeat it. The Commission also had a round of questions. It has to be said that nothing very significant emerged during this period, too. After that, the Commission took procedural decisions. The Commission decided to propose that draft 661 be placed on the agenda for the plenary session by today, 21 May, to conclude the first reading and to set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft by 29 May at 12 noon. It was decided to appoint Jaanus Tamkivi as rapporteur for the draft. It should be noted that all these important decisions were made with unwavering consensus.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U297	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for the tabling of amendments to draft 661 at 12 noon on 29 May. The first reading is closed and the 19th item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U298	Let's move on to item 20. The first reading of the draft law amending the Spatial Data Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I ask the Minister of the Environment of the Riigikogu Chair Keit Pentus-Rosimannud!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U299	You have before you the draft law amending the Spatial Data Act, which contains a few details in the existing law. We also want to fully transpose the directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the infrastructure for spatial information. This is a directive known as INSPIRE which regulates the spatial data needed to implement environmental policy. 'Room data' may sound a little clumsy as a term, but it is data on buildings, roads and water bodies displayed on maps, for example, as well as data on geodetic points and cadastral units. These data are mainly held by public authorities, but are used by public and local authorities as well as by private individuals, for example, in the preparation of planning and construction projects. The current legislation is already very much in line with the INSPIRE Directive; two minor clarifications are needed. Firstly, we have a proposal to supplement the Spatial Data Act with a provision whereby access to spatial data can only be restricted through search services if such access is detrimental to public policy, international relations or national defence. Search services are services that search for data or metadata. For example, you can search for who is the data administrator, where data are collected in the database, when the data were last updated, how they can be accessed, for what purpose they are collected, etc. In Estonia, the general grounds for restricting access to data are set out in the Public Information Act, which, however, does not make any distinction between the services providing access to information. These services may include, for example, a search service, a data viewing service, download service, etc. So far, spatial data has been subject to general restrictions laid down in the Public Information Act. If the change takes effect, the holder of the information may restrict the search service to the data, but, as has been said previously, the right to impose such restrictions shall be limited only if he has established in advance that access for any reason or in any way endangers public order, international relations or national defence. The second amendment is that we wish to include in the law a provision allowing licensing agreements and charges to be applied to the distribution of spatial data sets and services between information holders only if such licensing agreements and fees have to facilitate data sharing. At present, the law allows for contracts to be concluded and charges to be charged, but does not specify that the purpose of such activities must always be to share data between information holders. Mr Riigikogu, I would like to ask you to support these two amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U300	Thanks to the waitress! Any questions for the initiator of the bill? There are no questions. Rein Randver, Member of the Commission, has nominated the Committee on the Environment as rapporteur for the draft. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U301	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft proposed Act amending the Spatial Data Act 652 was discussed at the meeting of the Environment Committee on 5 May. The aim of the draft is to fully transpose into Estonian law a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing an infrastructure for spatial information in the European Community. The draft was presented and the questions of the members of the Commission were answered at our meeting by Ülle Harak, Adviser to the Land Office. During the presentation of the draft, the Minister gave comprehensive explanatory answers. I will no longer be dealing with the two amendments that are set out in the draft, but will move on to the Commission's decisions. We decided to put a draft of 652 on the plenary agenda by 14 May 2014 and to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft be set at 25 May. It was decided to appoint a speaker to act as rapporteur. There was another meeting of the Commission before the plenary session. The reason was that the Minister wished to refrain from first reading the draft at the plenary session on 14 May. The Commission decided to revoke our 5 May decisions on sending the draft to first reading and setting the deadline for submitting amendments. We decided to make proposals to remove the first reading of the draft from the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on 14 May, to put the first reading on the agenda today, 21 May, and to set the deadline for the submission of draft 652 amendments on 29 May at 16 a.m. All these decisions were taken unanimously. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U302	Thank you. Any questions for the Commission's waitress? No, it's not. There is no wish for negotiation. First reading of Bill 652 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 652 amendments at 16 a.m. on 29 May.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U303	Our next item, No 21, is the first reading of draft Act 668 on the Implementation of the General Part of the Environmental Code Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The initiators' waitress is Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Minister of the Environment. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U304	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Dear Members, In the middle of February 2011, on 16 February, the previous Parliament passed the Act on the General Part of the Environmental Code, but the law is such that it is expected to enter into force in full to this day. Today, you have before you the draft law implementing the General Part of the Environmental Code Act, which would enable this general part of the law to be enforced in the most important part of the law. The law implementing the General Part of the Environmental Code Act as a whole will certainly make environmental law much easier and easier to understand, especially for those who apply it, but also for those who are just interested. The entry into force of the General Part Act harmonises and simplifies environmental regulations and also fills some of the gaps that are currently there. The bill consists, as you can see, of 12 paragraphs. Paragraph 1 makes purely editorial amendments to the text of the General Part Act, eliminates the inaccuracies and inconsistencies that have arisen. The remaining sections provide for amendments to existing special laws so as not to create a situation where there are direct contradictions between the rules of the General Part Act and the specific laws. The application of the requirements of the General Part Act is also specified. Some of the changes concern the public's involvement in the environmental authorisation process. This relates to the transposition of the European Union Inclusion Directive. But the draft as a whole, one can say, does not propose fundamental changes to the general part of the law or to the existing specific laws. The minor changes to the draft before you are as follows: First of all, the Genetically Modified Organisms Release Act amends the provisions concerning the Committee on Genetic Engineering and brings it into line with the Administrative Procedure Act. Since the Committee on Genetic Engineering is not an administrative body and consequently does not exercise executive power, it must also be unambiguously understood by law. The role of the Committee on Genetic Engineering as a scientific advisory body will become clearer and the experts who belong to it will be able to focus better on the substantive work that the Commission has been invited to do. The Commission shall be removed from its obligation to verify compliance with the requirements of the application for the release of genetically modified organisms and to inform the local authority of the submission of the application. This does not mean that this work is lost, but it is clear from the future that this work will be done by the Ministry of the Environment. The Environmental Liability Act specifies the criteria for determining the damage caused to water and the definition of the cause of the damage and the obligations of the owner of the immovable property if environmental damage has been detected on his land. The environmental use scheme will thus become simpler and clearer. This will allow for a more accurate and better assessment of the damage suffered, as well as the planning of remedial measures. The amendments to the Nature Conservation Act are due to a practical need. Firstly, the legislation on the establishment of a habitat action plan is introduced into the law. Secondly, swans are added to the migratory species, which are partially compensated for the damage caused and partially reimbursed for the costs of the measures taken to prevent the damage. This will, inter alia, contribute to the protection of swans, avoiding the risk of their illegal killing, and will certainly motivate people to take measures to protect their property. Thirdly, the protection arrangements for permanent habitats arising under the law are relaxed in order to allow people to stay in the area and to allow certain activities while the birds are not nesting in the permanent habitat. Dear Riigikogu, this is once again a long time done and a very necessary draft. I ask you to support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U305	Thank you. Do the members of the Riigikogu have any questions for the initiator of the draft? No, it's not. The rapporteur is Tõnis Kõiv, member of the Committee on the Environment. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U306	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law implementing the General Part of the Environmental Code Act was read by the Environment Committee at its meeting on 15 May. In addition to the members of the committee, Mr Eda Pärtel, Head of the Legal Department of the Ministry of the Environment, Ms Elina Saunanen, lawyer, and Mr Taimo Aasma, Head of the Department of Nature Conservation took part in the meeting. The aim of the draft law was introduced to the Committee on the Environment: to enforce the Act on the General Part of the Environmental Code adopted by the Riigikogu on 1 August 2011 and to make the necessary amendments to other laws for its implementation, such as the Environmental Liability Act and the Nature Conservation Act. The General Part of the Environmental Code Act deals with general principles of environmental protection, environmental rights and obligations, as well as a common procedure for granting environmental authorisations. Once the draft law enters into force, Estonian environmental law will become clearer and more uniform, and the objective of codification will also be partially met by consolidating the existing environmental legislation into a single code, thus resolving the inconsistencies in the current law. Next, I will talk about the draft in the light of the debate in the Committee on the Environment. The entry into force of the General Part of the Environmental Code is linked to the completion of specific parts which have created the need to amend the General Part and thus to enforce the law amending and implementing the General Part. The General Part of the Environmental Code has been completed under the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice, but the Ministry of the Environment is responsible for the completion of the Special Code. The Forest Act, the Industrial Emissions Act and the Hunting Act have already been amended. This draft law amends the law on the release of genetically modified organisms, the Nature Conservation Act and the Environmental Liability Act in addition to the provisions of the General Part. Let me be clear about some of the changes that the Minister did not mention in his report or which we had in the Commission with special attention. One such change concerns which bodies of water are intended for public use. According to the current law, a body of water is public when it is included in the list of public water bodies by the Government of the Republic. However, the General Part of the Environmental Code Act, which does not yet enter into force, states the other way around the logic that all bodies of water are by their nature public and that a list of closed bodies of water must be established separately. In the meantime, however, it has become apparent that, for all small bodies of water, some half of which are not even registered at all, some are located within the borders of one property, etc., to decide individually whether they are closed or closed or not, this would increase the administrative burden. It was therefore proposed that the current practice should be continued that public water bodies are those that the Government of the Republic has placed on the list of public water bodies. In addition, the regulation of public consultation in the field of environmental permits will be improved and complemented by the possibility that a person who is not directly involved in the proceedings may also take part in the debate with a say. Literature is given to anyone who has an interest in the matter, so that people can have better access to decision-making in environmental matters. The regulation for preventing the shoreline provided for in the Nature Conservation Act can be supplemented. In addition to the fact that the owner or holder of the shoreline may block the shoreline on the basis of the written consent given by the local authority, he may also do so with the consent of the Agricultural Office. This is due to the fact that the Agricultural Office plays an important role in the construction of land improvement systems. The minister already gave an overview of the subject of genetically modified organisms in his presentation. Also, by amending the Nature Conservation Act, swans are added to the list of species whose damage is compensated by the State. This list includes not only swans but also grey seals, tiger seals, brown bears, wolves, lynxes, European mink, sea eagles, fish eagles and migratory cranes, geese and lagoons. As we know, the issues of harm caused by all the animals not mentioned here must be settled between the landowner and the hunters. With the amendment of the Nature Conservation Act, the rules for the protection of the permanent habitat of a species will also be relaxed, which will automatically apply if a permanent habitat is discovered. The national languages are called "the circle of eagles," which will apply as soon as the eagle nest is discovered. If, under the law in force, no one is allowed to be in this circle at all, then it is now planned to allow the stocking, hunting and fishing of berries, mushrooms and other forest by-products. This, of course, is not while birds are nesting. The Water Act makes it more precise to protect the water catchment area from pollution. In particular, the pollution source holder's obligation to avoid a pollution source which poses an environmental risk is specified and to take immediate measures to reduce the environmental risk from the source. These environmentally hazardous sources are sewerage buildings, oil storage buildings, silos storage sites, manure storage facilities and fertiliser storage facilities. Now, however, I would like to draw attention to three changes that are important to the 'common person'. First, when a foreign parcel is present, the restrictions laid down by law and the legitimate requirements of the owner of the plot must be respected and, to the greatest extent possible, the formation of environmental disturbances must be reduced. The environmental disturbance is known to be, among other things, noise, i.e. when travelling on foreign land, to the greatest extent possible, to reduce noise generation. Second, attention, dog owners! If a dog is present on a foreign land, the dog must be tethered unless otherwise agreed with the owner of the land. A service dog is not required to be engaged in service duties and hunting dogs are not required to be hunted. Thirdly, in the case of camping or other more permanent stays in an unprepared and unmarked place, the noticeable distance of visibility and hearing outside the dwelling must be avoided. Open terrain must be avoided at least 150 metres from the home. All these three amendments are essentially based on the logic of the Law on Orders, which will enter into force on 1 July 2014. A person has the full right to realise his or her rights to the extent that he or she does not prevent another person from exercising his or her rights. An unmarked foreign land may be present, but you must not play music loudly, the dog must be on the leash, and you must stay away from the homes in order not to disturb other people. Now I am talking about the decisions of the Committee on the Environment. The Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu decided to put draft 668 on the plenary agenda by 21 May 2014. The Commission decided to make proposals for the completion of the first reading and to set the deadline of 30 May 2014 at 12 noon for the submission of draft amendments. It was decided to appoint a speaker here. All four decisions were taken by the Committee on the Environment in a consensual manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-21_U307	Thank you. Any questions for the Rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment? No, it's not. There's no call. The lead committee has proposed to close the first reading of draft 668 and no other proposals have been received. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 668 amendments at 12 noon on 30 May. The session of the 15th working week of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu, held on 21 May, is closed. Closure of the sitting at 6.35 p.m.
