ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the session of the second working week of the 8th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U2	Good morning, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! I hereby brief you on the question we are presenting to Mr Ossinovski, Minister for Education and Science. In fact, there have been quite a lot of emotions over the last few weeks about the integration of the Põltsamaa Vocational School into the Järvamaa Vocational Education Centre. To be exact, the Põltsamaa Vocational School will actually be closed in a few years. The question is that if we look at the development plan for vocational education and developments in recent years in both Põltsamaa and Järvamaa, we do not find any particular reason why Põltsamaa should close the Vocational School. This is a forwarder of the continuity of the Estonian Alexander School founded at the end of the 19th century and has made major investments in recent years. There are over 300 students in school. It has also been a school with more than 300 students in very difficult times. The school has its own characteristics; it deals thoroughly with young people without basic education. Consequently, we have four questions for the Minister. We want an explanation of why it has been decided to close the school. Quite a lot of controversial statements have been made by ministerial officials through the media, and we are also waiting for the Minister to explain them. And we certainly want to know what the Minister's plans are more broadly due to the development plan for vocational education. Are such unexpected school closures still planned?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U3	Thank you. It seems that there are no more requests for referrals and drafts. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have accepted an inquiry. If it complies with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu shall forward it to the addressee without delay. Now, ladies and gentlemen, please do the presence check! There are 86 members of the Riigikogu, no 15.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U4	We're going to the agenda today. The first item on the agenda is the first reading of the Riigikogu decision "Revocation of a member of the National Opera Board and appointment of a new member" draft 716. For a presentation, I would like to ask Lauri Luige, Chairman of the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Before you is the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Revocation of a member of the National Opera Board and appointment of a new member." Pursuant to the National Opera Act, the Riigikogu appoints three members of the Riigikogu to the National Opera Council on the proposal of the Cultural Commission. As the mandate of Esther Tuiksoo as a member of the Riigikogu has ended, we propose to appoint Enn Eesmaa, a member of the National Opera Council, as a member of the Riigikogu. The Committee on Culture discussed the draft at its meeting on 8 September, where we took the following decisions by consensus: to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 18 September, today, to appoint a speaker as rapporteur and to propose to the House a final vote on the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U6	Thank you very much. There's a question for you too. Please, Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U7	Thank you. Enn Frontland is certainly a very good candidate, but the question concerns the procedure. Do you think that, in future, during the next Riigikogu, the members of this council could be appointed by the Committee on Culture, or is it very necessary that we discuss this before the House?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U8	Thank you. I agree with what you said about Mr Enn Frontland. As far as the change of procedure is concerned, we are acting in accordance with the law. If the ambassadors think that there is a need to change this order, we will be able to clarify the law accordingly.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U9	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Lauri Luik. It is now possible to open negotiations. Any requests? There's no call. The commission's proposal was for a final vote on draft 716. Let's get ready for the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote to the final vote on the Riigikogu's decision 'Revocation of a member of the National Opera Council and appointment of a new member' of the Riigikogu 716. Please take a stand and vote. 80 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U10	We will go to the next item, which is the first reading of draft 664 of the Riigikogu decision "Proposal for the Government of the Republic" submitted by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union. For a presentation, please speak to Siim Kisler, member of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U11	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The draft we proposed...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U12	One moment, I'm sorry, waitress! Good Riigikogu, please listen to a colleague! Please, Siim Kisler, continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U13	On the basis of § 154 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, the Government of the Republic would be invited to appoint the seat of the National Defence Academy in Ida-Virumaa and to establish a new study building for the Estonian Defence Academy during the current budget period of the European Union. As a draft author, the IRL Group considers that taking the Academy of Internal Defence to Ida-Virumaa is a both regional and security policy-based step. The seemingly topicalisation of security policy aspects in recent times is evidently perceived by all of us, especially in the light of the events in Ukraine. In the case of Ida-Virumaa, in addition to the security risks associated with the continuation of Russia's national policy, a number of other factors may be highlighted, which means that this county needs more attention from the country. Most crimes are committed in Ida-Virumaa and Harjumaa. The average per capita income in Ida-Virumaa is a quarter smaller than the average in Estonia, and nearly 20% of the Estonian unemployed live there. The population of Ida-Viru County is made up of a large part of the citizens of Russia and other countries, as well as persons of undefined nationality. The share of Estonians is about 20% and the confidence of residents of other nationalities in the institutions of the Estonian state is smaller than that of Estonians. Different solutions have been sought and proposed to change the situation. A great deal of work has been done on the development, adoption and implementation of the Ida-Virumaa Action Plan. This action plan was confirmed by the Government of the Republic as early as 2010 and has since been updated several times. One of the central messages of the plan has been this: 'National central authorities or structural units should be planned in the future and, if possible, physically relocated to Ida-Virumaa, thus making the country's attention and presence in the region more discernible. ' As I have been directly involved in the preparation and implementation of this action plan, I can assure you that the brightest idea ever proposed for implementing the Ida-Virumaa Action Plan has obviously been to move the Academy of Interior to Ida-Virumaa. With regard to the implementation of the decision submitted, it should be noted that the Academy of Internal Defence is an applied higher education institution which, in its legal form, is a public body managed by the Ministry of Internal Affairs. According to the current statute, Tallinn is the seat of the National Defence Academy. According to the draft, the Government of the Republic should amend the statute of the Academy of Internal Defence, but obviously it is necessary to build a new study building in Ida-Virumaa for the substantive implementation of the decision and to launch the study activities there. This should move forward without delay. The draft provides for the construction of a new study facility during the current EU budget period, i.e. 2014 to 20200, given the possibility that existing EU structural resources will be used for its construction. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! As authors of this draft, we understand that the transfer of a state institution to another county certainly means certain inconveniences in the organisation of the lives of workers and their family members. It is humanly understandable that, in fear of such changes, several lecturers and other employees of the Academy of Internal Defence have expressed opposition to moving. But if we are unable to make this decision about the National Defence Academy, which state institution could we take to Ida-Virumaa in the first place? Does anyone have a better solution? We haven't seen it, unfortunately. They say there is no money, but it is planned that the European Union's Structural Fund will be used during this period to repair the buildings located in Tallinn at the Academy of Internal Defence. So if you build in Tallinn, there is money. The choice now needs to be made whether we will invest in Tallinn and, as a result, we will also bring jobs from Pärnumaa to the capital in the long term or transfer this money to the difficult state of the Estonian county to improve the situation there. It is claimed that Ida-Virus automatically reduces the quality of teaching. It is very difficult for me to understand why the assumption is that it is impossible to provide as good education as it is in the area 137 kilometres from Tallinn. So, what's going to change so hard that the level of education is going to fall drastically? It doesn't make any sense. We understand that these are pretexts, not genuinely presented real reasons. Although the transfer of one state institution to Ida-Virumaa does not, of course, solve all development and security problems in this county, the transfer of the Estonian Academy of Defence would have a significant positive impact on the internal security of the region as well as on the security of the whole country. This would help create new jobs in Ida-Virumaa and would be a clearly visible and real step that, in the long term, would also influence the attitude of the population to the institutions of the Estonian state in a positive direction. The representatives of the county's local authorities have very warmly adopted this plan and are hoping to implement it. As an example of the state institutions successfully launched and transferred to Ida-Virumaa, the Viru Prison was completed in 2008 and the Department of Prisons of the Ministry of Justice in Jõhvi since the beginning of 2013. According to Minister Hanno Pevkur, moving to Ida-Virumaa, the prison department could serve as an example for other state agencies. I quote Minister Pevkur: 'The prison department has now been in Jõhvi for one year and I can confidently recommend such decisions to other ministries. It is precisely because the Government's Ida-Viru Action Plan provides for the transfer of state institutions to Ida-Viru County as one step towards strengthening the state's presence. ' We ask the Riigikogu to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U14	Thank you very much. Before we go to the questions, I will let you know that any member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to each of the rapporteurs. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U15	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, You have a sentence here in the explanatory memorandum: 'In the light of the events in Ukraine, the security dimension of the internal defence academy's shift to Ida-Virumaa has undoubtedly become even more topical. " Do you really see any parallel, see the possibility that what has been in Ukraine will happen in Estonia? Do you really believe that there may be a government in Estonia that will shoot its population from cannons, that it will repeat what has been in Ukraine, where more than 2500 civilians have been killed? Explain why the word 'Ukraine' is even in here when it comes only to Estonia and our internal security!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U16	Mr. Stalnukhin! We obviously have very different perceptions of what has happened in Ukraine, of the role of the Ukrainian Government in it and of Russia's role in it. Maybe this isn't the right place to try and reach an agreement on this. However, it is clear that when we talk about the security situation in Estonia, the security policy as a whole, we must inevitably think about what has happened in Ukraine and why it has proved possible there. At all, when we talk about today's security situation as a whole, we must monitor developments in other countries and think about what is very different from those that are similar, whether there is any analogy, whether there are any weaknesses. When we think about weak spots, it is no secret that security experts in Estonia regard Ida-Virumaa as a difficult county, where security problems are more serious.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U17	Thank you. Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U18	Dear waitress, For three years, the Ministry of the Interior, the Minister of Education and the Minister of Regional Affairs held the portfolio of the IRL. These are key portfolios to address this issue. Please tell me why you did nothing for three years to achieve this solution. And will you be satisfied with the substantive status of the Estonian National Defence Academy, which provides both vocational education and master's studies at the same time, apart from applied higher education?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U19	If I were to answer the other side of the question, I would abstain from my assessment. The Committee on Culture could take a position on what this status should be. Now for what's been done before. When the Action Plan for Ida-Virumaa was adopted in 2010, it was clear that there was no money for very large investments. It has been clear to everyone that opportunities to invest in the Academy of Internal Defence will arise when the Structural Funds for the new EU budget period open. It's happening right now. To this end, activities have been planned in the context of the Education Action, the Ida-Viru urban development measure and the measure to strengthen the region's competitiveness. All these possibilities are. Now these funds are opening up, and now there's a decision-making place. As I emphasised, we actually have two options. This money is not left uninvested, it is either invested in Tallinn or invested in Ida-Virumaa. There were no such amounts in the past. It is clear that it will take a long time to plan the European Union's resources, but now it is time for the money of the European Union to be used.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U20	Thank you. Please, Barbi Pilvre!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U21	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, You compared your report to moving to prison and moving to college. Do you think it's correct? In addition, I ask you to comment on the National Audit Office's assessment of moving. That assessment was negative.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U22	I was talking about what's been possible so far. I also pointed out, as an example, that moving into one department of the ministry has proved possible when the will has been desired. I understand, of course, that the more independent a body or institution is, the more difficult it is to make that kind of decision, and the stronger the chain of command, the easier the decision will be. At all, however, decisions with wide-ranging implications in a democratic society are very complex. There are human causes for this opposition, as I said. It is very understandable why people object to strong counterplays. When it comes to education, such an institution is naturally more independent in a way. At the same time, the Academy of Home Affairs does not have the same status as most universities. In this sense, it is easier to decide that this area is more finite and must be understood that it cannot necessarily be free to the end. If you have a better idea of which state institution could be transferred to Ida-Virumaa, I repeat, all proposals are welcome. But for years it has been discussed, a better idea has not come up.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U23	Thank you. Please, Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U24	Thank you. Honourable waitress! This morning I listened to radio interviews, where a good colleague expressed hesitation and doubt and thought that it would be necessary first to argue as what units and to what extent the Internal Defence Academy would be working in the future. Only then could it be decided whether to move the institution to Ida-Virumaa. How do you feel, though, wouldn't it be right before you make a fundamental decision that yes, we want to take the academy there, and then, in the course of your further work, to set out all this more precise content?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U25	After all, teaching is changing all the time. In its calculations, the Academy of Home Affairs has spoken of a significantly higher number of students than experts consider to be real. We've got a pretty drastic decrease in the number of students. This is particularly because the number of people at that age is falling. So the teaching is constantly changing. If you look at the basic data on the basis of which the feasibility of moving has been assessed, then first the Estonian Academy of Defence forecasted that they had 1000 students. Later, they spoke of 760 students. I think the choice of what a study building must be, what a large dormitory and all that is, is one choice. The second option is where the study building is located. In general, I think we should essentially decide that we will move gradually to Ida-Virumaa by 2020 at the Academy of Home Affairs. There's plenty of time. However, the funds are now opening up and therefore it must be decided immediately whether this money will be used in Tallinn or in Ida-Virumaa. This decision must be made now. But I'm sorry, I didn't answer the other side of the question before Mrs. Pilvre. It was a question about the opinion of the National Audit Office. The National Audit Office took the view that taking the Estonian Academy of Defence to Ida-Virumaa is not practical. In this respect, it is based on two assumptions. This is a practical step in two cases. First, if the quality of education improves, and second, if building there is cheaper than renovation in Tallinn. We understand that if the institution is taken to Ida-Virumaa, it is very likely that there will be no drastic depreciation or any significant improvement in the quality of education. The Auditor General concludes that if it does not become cheaper and the quality of training does not improve, there is no point in taking this step. At the same time, it completely rejects regional policy considerations. By the way, good lawmaking practice, as well as the practice of assessing the impact of government-approved drafts, or what to call it, provides for regional policy implications to be taken into account. In short, if the quality of the education provided remains the same and the price is more or less the same, then it must be considered whether there are other positive effects. This view was completely left out by the Auditor General. This is clearly evident in this letter, and everyone can read it. I also replied to the Auditor General, this letter is also public. I am very sorry that the Auditor General is mistaken on this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U26	Thank you. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U27	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! As Ambassador of Ida-Viru County, your proposal to bring the Academy of Home Affairs to Ida-Viru County was truly acceptable. This proposal really has a deep background, I am thinking in particular of the security issue. However, as has emerged from the discussions, there are serious obstacles and problems. I proposed here in the meantime that maybe transfer to college. Has this idea been discussed in order to leave a Master's degree in Tallinn and take a college to Ida-Virumaa?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U28	Different options are possible for us as initiators. I would like to point out that the Academy of Interior is also located in very many places. The legal location and location according to the statute is Tallinn, yet it has not stopped Väike-Maarjas, Paikus and Muraste. We are talking about the location of the main building and the construction of the study building in Ida-Virumaa. Which solutions are, in summary, more appropriate? We certainly do not want to take up the role of day-to-day teachers and make these choices for them, but the fundamental decision on this issue is a political decision and it is up to us to make it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U29	Thank you. Please, Maimu Berg!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U30	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr Kiisler, It's such an egg and chicken story that which was before was an egg or a chicken. If you don't really see what this structure is going to be, is it really good to move these boxes in the room? But let me ask you something that probably no one can answer right now, but maybe you can. What's all this going to cost us by 2020?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U31	As for the structure and internal organisation of work, all I can say is that they are changing now. As I was referring to, the number of students is decreasing. Changes are necessary in any case. There is also increasing talk about the transfer of teaching on the site to a renovated complex in Tallinn, which I think once again is a decision with a clear negative impact on regional policy. So the structure will change anyway, it will never be permanently fixed. I would like to emphasise once again that it is now up to us to decide where to invest. It's our choice. Excuse me, what was the second part of the question? What's the cost of the transfer? That's a very good question. According to the latest data submitted by the Ministry of the Interior to the Government of the Republic, this will cost EUR 40 million. I would point out that at least EUR 15 million is available and reserved thanks to the higher education measure. The European Union's actions provide for a measure to increase the region's competitiveness in Ida-Virumaa, the money of which can also be used for this purpose. There is also a measure for the sustainable development of urban areas in Ida-Virumaa. These funds are not yet open, these options are still being made and regulations relating to measures are being written. That's why I haven't been able to make decisions before. I hope that the funds will be opened either at the end of this year or at the beginning of next year. It must be possible to use these amounts when measures are launched. The money for Ida-Viru County will be used for Ida-Virumaa anyway, while the money allocated to higher education will become available to the Academy of Home Affairs It's just a matter of location.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U32	Thank you. According to the rules, each questioner can ask one question. There have already been many times that the respondent forgets to answer a number of questions. Please stop by asking one question. The next questioner is Liisa-Ly Pakosta. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U33	Thank you. School doesn't invest its money, we're still talking about taxpayers' money, and as you just confirmed, that money is there. I mediate the question of why politicians should discuss where the investment goes when a jar of paint costs the same amount in Viru County and Tallinn. Explain what these regional policy considerations are and why we are discussing where taxpayers' money should go when a jar of paint costs the same amount.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U34	Indeed, a jar of color costs the same amount in Ida-Virumaa and Tallinn. I dare say here with all seriousness that these claims, as if everything were going to be ugly much more expensive in Ida-Virumaa, are based on lobbying with a clear aim. People are simply not interested in having their jobs in Ida-Virumaa. Once again, it is human and understandable. People have families, children go to school in Tallinn, they are not just interested in working in Ida-Virumaa. But politicians must also take other criteria into account. Politicians, in my opinion, should not make decisions such as moving to the State Forest Management Centre under the slope of Toompea. State forests are currently managed in Estonia from the so-called Snell Forest, if you could say so. I think that the representatives of all the political groups have confirmed at their meetings with the voters that the state cares about other counties as well; the state is not interested in getting everyone together in Tallinn. The state must take steps in the opposite direction of this movement. It's not easy. At the same time, it is generally acknowledged that we are much more difficult to influence the private sector. The location of public authorities is one thing that can be really influenced by political decisions. However, when we look at regional policy decisions, we see officials wanting to move towards a larger centre. For example, if the Public Road Administration unites its structural units in Võru and Tartu, the instinctive desire of officials is that this joint institution be located in Tartu rather than Võru. I'm afraid that's the case. Politicians must, if possible, take decisions in the opposite direction to curb this trend, in order to achieve a greater regional balance, which is so much talked about, but which is difficult to find real undertakings to do. That's why I'm offering in this hall: if anyone has a better idea, say it! But it's not.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U35	Thank you. Please, Annely Akkermann!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U36	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, As a former regional minister, you naturally agree that all Estonian regions should be stronger. We have entrusted Ida-Virumaa with Estonia's energy production, at least the lion's share of it. It is a very important, strategic area. Why is it that energy, along with all the environmental problems involved, can be produced in Ida-Virumaa, but the Security Academy cannot be located there? It's too expensive, it's too far away, there's no staff, and there's a lot of dangers.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U37	I think this is not an issue. The question is that if an institution already exists once in Tallinn or another major city, it is extremely difficult to transfer it to a smaller place. This is something that you would be happy to take from Jõhvi to Tallinn. The plan to move something from Tallinn to Narva or Jõhvi will immediately result in strong opposition. Very gruesome expressions are used until the Minister of Finance, a member of the government, has appointed the Internal Defence Academy to be deported to Ida-Virumaa. I find it embarrassing to have that kind of expression. People in another county are offered a job to call it that! It is always easier when a major change occurs, a new institution is created and its location is decided. It is extremely difficult to move existing, existing institutions to one side and the other. I am therefore pleased that the Reform Party was so brave and wrote its programme promise to voters that the study building of the Academy of Home Affairs will be built in Ida-Virumaa. It received a letter in the form of a specific, not a considerationable, thought-out idea, that it is in the form expressed in the Programme of the Reform Party that you can be sure of it. That's the confidence we're looking for here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U38	Thank you. Please, Andre Sepp!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U39	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! No location should really outweigh the quality of education, but in your presentation you also mentioned the security policy aspect, and that is what we, as politicians, all want to strengthen. But I'm sure there's more emotion than rationality in this plan. Today, too, I think it would certainly be wise to set up a traineeship base there. When you developed this proposal, did you also consider, when you were looking at the security policy aspect, that if the entire complex were located in Ida-Viru County, would more young people, both academic and applied, get education from that region? Is this also a security issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U40	Speaking of students or students at all, I do not think statistics show that only young people from Pärnumaa, only boys and girls from Lääne-Virumaa in Väike-Maarja and those living in Tallinn or elsewhere in Harjumaa will learn about Paikus. There are students from all over Estonia. Very much has indeed been suggested that the proportion of students of Estonian nationality may decrease if this institution is located in Ida-Virumaa. There are fewer Estonians living there. But the reality is that, right next to the National Defence Academy in Lasnamäe, there are considerably more Russian-speaking people living than in Narva. And more Russian-speaking people live in Tallinn than the whole of Ida-Virumaa. Even now, it's like there's a threat when someone wants to see it. This trend has not yet been seen from the beginning, although there are at least 200,000 native-speaking Russian-speaking people in Tallinn alone. Nobody's made a big deal out of it. Now for the rationality of decisions. Yeah, maybe I'm presenting this bill here too emotionally, but rational regional political argument is also a rational argument. Security policy is definitely a rational thing. Once again, if there is a proposal to take Narva to the Riigikogu instead of the National Defence Academy, then let's consider it as a more rational idea. But something has to be done. The number of Estonians in Ida-Virumaa is decreasing, and not only the number but also the proportion is decreasing. This is the only county in Estonia where the share of Estonians is constantly decreasing. Do we want to change this process? We have been independent again for over 20 years, we have been talking about how we pay attention to Ida-Virumaa, but there are no signs of improvement. Do we want to make a difference or do we not want to change anything? Why don't we just say rational arrangement, let him be? We'll talk for the next 20 years to let that problem be there. It is a question of choice, and it is now particularly acute. We have European money and we need to make a rational decision where we invest, either in Tallinn or in Ida-Viru. Very difficult choice. As far as the internship base is concerned, the internship base is a beautiful word, it sounds very good. I have understood from the representatives of the government in the Commission that, in essence, this means that maybe a few dozen beds, according to government representatives, in the best case, 90 beds are being repaired in some dormitory, the dormitory may be renovated with a city government, perhaps with someone else. And then for a very short time, for example two weeks in Tallinn, students stay in this renovated dormitory in Ida-Virumaa. That's what they call an internship base. That is the reality, it is not the solution that will eliminate the problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U41	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U42	Thank you. Good colleague, you've been to Ida-Virumaa a lot as a minister. We've only been talking about Ida-Viru County for half an hour here, but I believe there have been discussions on more precise options where this main building will be put up. You may have an opinion. What option does it seem best to you: Could it be in Narva, Sillamäe, Isaac, or Aser?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U43	Good question. I am very cautious about naming a particular place, because, in a very vile way, it has been tried to link it to the interests of some real estate. I assure you, there are no real estate interests, as long as Ida-Virumaa is chosen. The place is up to the government, especially the RKAS and the Ministry of the Interior. It's very ugly to say that the initiators of the bill seem to have their own interests at the end. Even if Pirita's real estate is to be sold, the government will decide who and how. If this ever happens, I hope that this competition will be very open and very transparent, everyone will be able to participate. These have been very ugly clues. It is for security policy and regional policy reasons that my position is that the Academy of Home Affairs should be as visible as possible in Narva, if possible in the centre of Narva. Of course, limitations also play a role as to whether such a property is available, whether it is offered by anyone and if so, whether the price is reasonable. Of course, such considerations must be taken into account and therefore cannot become very specific. A big step forward is when the institution is located in Ida-Virumaa. But, yes, it would be even better if it were in a very visible place in Narva, not hiding in the woods. All such rational arguments must be considered. The previous issues also refer to the quality of education. After all, there is a Narva College of the University of Tartu in Narva. There are not many accusations that there is a tremendously poor quality of learning due to the fact that the college is located in Narva. I haven't heard those accusations.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U44	Thank you. Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U45	Thank you. Good waitress! I would like to clarify this issue of funding, which has been brought to the attention of many times in this Chamber. First of all, it is probably that the Structural Funds money is going to be used anyway, and the question is whether we are going to invest again in Tallinn or outside Tallinn. So it doesn't make spending numbers directly bigger. We know that it would be wise to avoid investments such as the State Forest Management Centre was, and I would like to draw attention to the word 'forest' from one side of the street to another, under the slope of Toompea. The state forests could best be managed as if under the slope of Toompea, millions were spent on them. At the moment, it is planned to build a superbuilding of ministries alongside the Ministry of Finance. Perhaps such investments could be cancelled, these funds directed towards regional investment and we would still have money left over. What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U46	I think we can make such choices. That is one thing politicians can decide. Obviously, it is not possible, and not wise, to decide exactly how to manage the forest, including the state-owned forest, or what subjects to teach the students. However, we can make such choices. This, however, must indeed be acknowledged that the State Forest Management Centre is indeed a regrettable example that the investment could have been made elsewhere. The country itself has contributed to the fact that the movement is largely one-way. However, it is not quite one-way, some people are moving to Tallinn, some are moving out of Tallinn. All in all, there are 15 counties in Estonia, 13 of which have fewer inhabitants. And according to the forecast recently made by Statistics Estonia, it will shrink drastically, by 30% and more over the next few decades. The population of Harjumaa is increasing. Today's situation is that the number of inhabitants of Harjumaa is increasing and the number of inhabitants of Tartumaa stays around zero. The prognosis is that the growth in the number of inhabitants of Harjumaa will stop and remain small, while the number of inhabitants of Tartumaa will increase somewhat. There is a very strong concentration per couple and it is clear that such large investments will affect this. The decisions on which to build the Estonian National Museum, where to build one or more large state institutions or other institutions, are affected. Such decisions will affect you. It is not to be expected that it will affect nothing to completely wherever the Estonian National Museum is to be built. It doesn't matter! Yeah, it does. I think that when you talk about the Estonian National Museum, everyone understands that it is positive that it is in Tartu. There are no very loud voices to make it more rational and cheaper to build this building in Tallinn. I have not heard such views. But there's something about the National Defence Academy. I repeat: the money will be invested in the National Defence Academy anyway, the money will move in this area. The question is where to build this complex.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U47	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U48	Thank you, manager. Ladies and gentlemen, This is, of course, a regional political decision and you, as former Minister of Regional Affairs, should certainly support it. But why didn't these decisions come when you were the regional minister? Some regions are almost empty in Estonia today. However, IRL already has one such experience, namely the transfer of the Ministry of Education to Tartu. The result is that the Ministry of Education is run from Tartu and Tallinn. Can you tell me afterwards that was the right move? I think the real estate owner who rents out the Ministry of Education won it first. Are there other positive results?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U49	I think there's a difference between being a ministry or a subsidiary. For example, the situation is probably different depending on whether we are talking about the State Forest Management Centre or the Ministry of the Environment. Unfortunately, the work of ministries is generally more effective if they work closer to the government and the Riigikogu. But this does not apply, for example, to the State Forest Management Centre. I do not see the need for the National Defence Academy to be located near the Riigikogu building. So there are different considerations for different bodies, nothing to do. The more loosely a particular institution is connected to the central government, the easier it is to make a fundamental decision. As for earlier time, as I said, it has taken time to plan all the funding. It is now also planned to fund the Academy of Home Affairs through EU actions. It is a pity if, in summary, this money is used for Ida-Viru County in Tallinn. That would be unfortunate. I can give you an example of what I'm doing: when we aggregated the accounts and personnel accounts of 15 county governments, we organised a competition where this unit will be located. In doing so, we ruled out Tallinn and Tartu, said that no matter where else. The contest was won by Viljandi, and this unit is now working there. At first it was claimed that there are no accountants there simply can't, too small a place, not enough specialists. However, it was, the places have been filled, the work is taking place and the experience is very positive. I would like to stress once again that such decisions are easier to make when there is a general reorganisation of an institution, when a change is coming anyway. If you have to move one way or another, it's easier to make a decision. But if you are in a certain place, it is more difficult to make changes for human reasons.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U50	Thank you. Please, Reet Roos!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U51	Thank you. Dear waitress, How emotional or rational do you think the preconceived statement that if you move to Ida-Viru County, the quality of your studies will suffer enormously and will fall significantly?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U52	I pointed out in my presentation that the study of the National Defence Academy also takes place at the Place. On the basis of the distance from Tallinn, the distance between Ida-Viru County and Paikus is 20 kilometres. However, no one claims that it is not possible for Paikus to organise his studies, that everything is screwed up and screwed up because of the location of Paikuse. Unfortunately, as I said, people have a negative attitude towards Ida-Viru County based on emotions, in some respects it is completely unserving. There are a lot of good things in Ida-Viru County. In my opinion, the College of Narva, University of Tartu, is a good example that anything is possible if you want to. College works, she can handle it, why shouldn't I.D.A.?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U53	Thank you. Please, Erki Arrow!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U54	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I would tell my colleagues that Narva is almost as far away as Tartu and Narva to Tallinn are just as much land as Narva from Tallinn. The Narva highway is certainly the best road in Estonia. But I'm going to ask the waitress a question like that. You've been working on this for years. Here we are talking about various amounts of money and certain funding. In what way could this educational institution be created there the fastest? There are some interest groups in Narva who want the academy there. Have they made any suggestions on how to build it there in an accelerated fashion? Can you elaborate on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U55	I stressed that the decision to propose to the government that Ida-Virumaa be designated as the seat of the National Defence Academy is very political. The current location is Tallinn. I would not like to discuss the situation of one place or another, or of a complex or object in one state or another, and the possibility of moving forward there. This is a second-level issue that must be decided by the government. At the moment, a fundamental decision should be taken by the Riigikogu, and the government should find the swiftest possible execution. Like I said, there's money. It is most important that you cannot say that there is no money. It is a question of wanting, of deciding how to use this euro money.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U56	Thank you. Please, on behalf of the Group of the Central Party of Mikhail Stalnukhin. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U57	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, When George Bush Jr. was elected president, the next day appeared one of the most popular American magazines on the cover of his picture. In fact, he wrinkled his face there, made the kind of grime he could do. You've all probably seen it. It was written on the cover that don't be alarmed, our new president is not as stupid as he looks. Here's to the bill. In the explanatory memorandum to this bill, I would draw a big, fat cross. Why would I do that? I'll talk about it later. I have this pro and contra speech, and right now it sounds pro. I would support this bill with two hands; it is easier to do so, that the explanatory statement does not go anywhere after that, it almost disappears. So, the National Defence Academy and Ida-Virumaa. This would have enormous regional political significance. When we talk about how a country can show its presence in different regions, it is one of the best ways to do so. I would remind you that a year and a half or more ago, I asked the Minister of the Interior about the relocation of the Academy of Home Affairs to Ida-Viru County. We talked about this, among other things, and I would like to remind you right now about a company like Narva Gate. There is a territory in Narva that is historically very important and has a symbolic mental significance. It's called the island of Kreenholm, where there are several territories together. This is an area that, in its time, in the early 1990s, was sold to a company with 13,000 people working in prosperity, with the agreement of the then government. Nobody paid attention to the development of things, and over the years this company just ran out. Today, this territory stands, although even in its present form, when new buildings have been taken down and only historic buildings have been left, it is very beautiful. The owner of this territory, Narva Gate, turned to the Ministry of the Interior or to the government at the moment, I do not remember exactly, and proposed that an island be introduced from this large territory and that a complex of Home Defence Academy be built in these very beautiful, very decent historical buildings. There would be a place for everything there would be a place for study rooms, living and training rooms, all kinds of gyms, etc. For us, this is particularly important not because the Academy of Home Affairs would give Narva some 30 or 40 jobs, i mean service, maintenance, catering, etc., but it would give impetus to the development of the entire territory of Kreenholm. Actually, it's a shame. One thing is, you drive somewhere in the woods and suddenly you see some decomposed building that nobody cares about. The other thing is that something like that stands near the border. So it's important in many ways. Speaking of money, I would remind you that Narva Gate's owners proposed that they build this complex for their own money. It doesn't cost the country anything, the state just tells us what it wants to get there, to what extent and what the conditions are. The way things are going is to decide on the negotiations. Why is it not possible that the National Defence Academy exists on rented surfaces? After all, our ministries are on rented surfaces and there is no problem with that. As the elected representative of the people of Ida-Viru County, I support this draft, although I would not like to see this explanatory statement. I'll explain why I'm saying this, just in case. There was an interesting line, what was it like...? 'When we think of the weak,' said Mr Kisler, and then he spoke of the weak. This weakness is the explanatory memorandum to the bill, which suggests that the heads of the people who put it together are also weak. Why are you causing some subjective, abstract hatred? Why are you trying to show Ida-Virumaa as some poor, completely forgotten region? It's politically good for you right now. But what are you gonna do if people keep that idea in their head? How do you develop Estonia without Ida-Virumaa? You're writing your explanatory statement on crime. I'm sorry, but crime is a statistically proven thing. Fortunately, we have a police prefecture in Ida-Virumaa and we have an absolute majority of the crimes committed in statistics. However, if you visit somewhere else in Estonia, somewhere in the deserted parish, you will be told, as I was told last summer in Saaremaa, that the vat was broken into this farm, petrol was stolen from the car, all the dairy dishes, probably the purchase of metal, were stolen from that farm. I asked how the police acted, if they caught the thieves. Oh, no one came to the police, it's obvious you're not gonna get caught anyway. It's statistics. Ida-Viru statistics are also compounded by the crimes committed at the border, which are mostly... Has it been eight minutes? Oh, my God! But the same is true of income and unemployment. There are regions in Estonia where the situation is much worse. Now, in recent seconds, I want to confirm that we support this bill and that we want the Academy of Home Affairs to come to Narva. However, voting on this issue has been left free in our group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U58	Thank you. Please, Jaak Allik on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U59	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to pay tribute to the Reform Party, because in the run-up to the elections of the Riigikogu in 2011, the Reform Party first wrote the following sentence in its election programme: 'We will improve the training of law enforcement officers and start the establishment of a new Academy of Interior Protection in Ida-Virumaa. 'In the coalition agreement with the IRL, the words'starting to build' became 'thinking to build'. In the 2011 Government Coalition, the Minister of the Interior, under whose authority the Academy operates, became the representative of the IRL. Unfortunately, this consideration began to linger, and the repeated enquiries of opposition ambassadors in the Riigikogu were always answered vaguely by the Minister of the Interior Vaher. At the same time, the staff of the academy under his command published articles in the press where such an idea was strongly criticised. There were all kinds of arguments since there were no youths who would like to study in Ida-Virumaa until the Academy in Narva took over Moscow in a few years. However, the fact that some of the current lecturers, many of whom are officials of the Ministry of the Interior, do not consider it possible to continue their work at an institution of higher education in Ida-Virumaa, clearly seemed to pass through the whole argument. As part of this consideration, in December 2012 Riigi Kinnisvara AS made a public inquiry to find alternative locations for the academy. The final analysis has been handed over to the Ministry of the Interior for a long time, but the government classified the analysis for five years. Thus, for several years to come, the public will not know which locations were offered to the academy and how much construction would have cost. This is the case with all possible statements about the potential cost of construction, at least in the public eyes, with arbitrary decisions. Today, the figures in this hall were from 40 million to 80 million. The government coalition has now changed and, on the proposal of the social democrats, the issue of the location of the academy was rewritten into the coalition agreement. The IRL has remained in opposition, the elections are approaching, and that is probably why the IRL submitted a draft decision to the Riigikogu proceedings today. The position of the Social Democrats has always been clear on this issue, which has been repeatedly expressed by both Minister of Justice Anvelt and Minister of Education Ossinovski. Based on regional policy and security policy considerations, it is necessary that the Academy of Interior is located in Ida-Virumaa. In a security policy, I think it is clear as it is, and the talk about the danger it poses is rather self-serving demagogy. The regional policy aspect was characterised by a statement submitted to the Committee on Culture from that classified analysis, which clearly states that the location of the Academy in Ida-Virus would create up to 200 new jobs in the region, with net revenues of approximately EUR 1.3 million per year for employees largely targeting the consumption of local services. This would also mean a tax supplement of approximately EUR 300000 for local authorities and approximately EUR 90000 for hotels in the region. The price of goods and services consumed by cadets is EUR 560000 per year. The Minister of the Interior offers as an alternative the creation of a so-called internship base in Narva. Depending on the month, this would mean a 20-90 accommodation place in a joint dormitory with the University of Tartu Narva College and Narva Vocational Training Centre. This exercise, of course, would not have a comparable effect, but it would certainly be the first step on the right track, and we are waiting for the concreteisation of this plan, the drafting of legislation and the agreement between the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Education and Research. To actually determine the future of the National Defence Academy, it is not the primary place to start pouring concrete, either in Tallinn or in Narva. Currently, the school is known to be scattered in four places in Estonia, and only the location of this school instead of Tallinn to Ida-Virumaa, as the draft IRL wishes, would not solve the substantive problems. The Academy is a unique educational institution in this sense, providing vocational education, applied higher education and master's studies at the same time. Basically, another public higher education institution is being developed from the Academy of Home Affairs, which is not related to the rest of the education system in terms of the possibilities for further learning of its graduates. Unfortunately, all three years, when both the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Education held the IRL's portfolio, no steps were taken to solve the substantive problems related to the school's future. It would be possible to develop the academy in stages in Ida-Virumaa and without damaging the regional political interests of Väike-Maarja and Paikuse rural municipality. There is a rescue school and a police school that provides one year's vocational training, so that in the visible future, you can remain in your seats. A Master's degree in Homeland Security could perhaps be combined with a higher education institution in Tallinn. The decision to transfer the part of Pirita Kosel to Ida-Virumaa at the academy must be accompanied by a clear view that the area occupied by the academy should remain in the public interest. For example, a state gymnasium so necessary could work there, serving the vital interests of the inhabitants of the region. As far as faculty members are concerned, I think that most patriotically-minded faculty members will continue their work in Ida-Virumaa, too, provided that the training can be organised as a cycle study and that satisfactory living conditions have been created for them. I am sure that, in some respects, practitioners already working in Ida-Virumaa can be implemented, but the possibility of earning extra education would motivate good specialists to enter the structural units of Ida-Virumaa in the future. Our group left a specific choice, either to support the draft with the taste of pre-election populism in the IRL or to expect a real solution to the problem, freed its members. Of course, any person with any knowledge of the matter understands that no matter how many votes in the hall today, the actual construction of the National Defence Academy is not dependent on such visits to the Riigikogu. If the party of the Prime Minister, including the Minister of Finance and the Minister of the Interior, opposes taking the Academy to Ida-Virumaa, it will not be taken there. In essence, however, a political decision that demands a high level of responsibility must eventually be taken. The solution to this situation, where the three political parties, as we have seen today, support this idea and one is opposed, must give rise to the approaching Riigikogu elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U60	Thank you very much. I will close the negotiations, all the political groups have spoken. As there are no amendments to the draft, it is not possible to revise them. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 664. Before the final vote, a verification of presence must be carried out, as a majority of the Riigikogu's membership is required for the adoption of the draft. Let's get ready for the vote! Ladies and gentlemen, First, we'll run a presence check. 41 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, 60 are missing. It must be said that the control of our presence gives us an informative state of affairs, and the vote will still take place. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on draft 664 of the Riigikogu decision "Proposal for the Government of the Republic" submitted by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union. Please take a stand and vote. 29 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 1 against and no abstentions. The draft did not receive a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu, so it has not been adopted as a decision and falls out of the procedure. Today's agenda is exhausted. I wish everyone a nice day. See you next week! Closure of the sitting at 11.55 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U61	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! There's already an experience in my neighborhood, or rather, it was. You must remember that there was a study base in Narva-Jõesuu that was built by the state. Please tell me why this base was shut down a few years ago and how this shut-down will affect security and regional policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U62	Thank you. Please, Etti Kagarov!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U63	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I support your point. Taking the National Defence Academy to Ida-Virumaa is a very good idea and we look forward to this decision for a long time. You have been a minister and you claim that money now exists in the Structural Funds. Even when you were Minister for Regional Affairs, there were Structural Funds, there was money. Why couldn't that decision have been made at that time? Why didn't you start the negotiations? And I have another question. You are talking about new measures that are a measure for the development of urban areas and a measure to strengthen their competitiveness. At present, municipalities sit together and discuss how to use these measures. Have you worked with them and are they also discussing the transfer of the National Defence Academy?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U64	At the time of this decision, I was not yet the Minister of Regional Affairs, but as the fresh Minister of Regional Affairs, I was able to fight very hard for this decision to be made. I really don't know all those things, but it's probably found that it's more rational to move this action somewhere else. But the people of Ida-Virumaa have really challenged the central government, and as a member of the government, I personally was able to fight a great deal about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U65	Thank you. Please, Priit Onion!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U66	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You have been here for an hour discussing the content of the draft, but I think this is clearly a political question as to whether or not we have the political will to take the Academy of Home Affairs to Ida-Viru County. Do you agree with me? We can talk about content nuances here for hours and discuss whether one or the other decision is better. Do you recall what the political parties promised in this regard for the last parliamentary elections?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U67	It is, of course, a matter of political will, as has been the case repeatedly here. This is a symbolic message that Toompea and Stenbock send to Ida-Viru County by decision. In drawing up the Ida-Virumaa Action Plan, the aim was to transfer state institutions to Ida-Virumaa, in my opinion there has been a consensus on this. This plan has been presented in the political groups and nobody has fundamentally opposed it. As far as political parties are concerned more specifically, I apologise to the social democrats if I am wrong, but I did not find such a promise in their programme. It is very clearly, as I said, 'you can be sure' in the wording, as a specific promise in the programme of the Reform Party. This is not included in the IRL program, about the Centre Party, I'm sorry, I can't tell you right now. However, I do know that the strong representation chosen from Ida-Viru on the list of the Centre Party has clearly supported this idea. What is worrying, as Marko Pomerants also mentioned, is that the general attitude is such that the public authorities could move to Ida-Virumaa, a great idea. But specifically with the National Defence Academy, it's like that. The question arises as to what other institution could then be transferred there, but this is all that has been proposed. So the people who say no to the Internal Defence Academy moving to Ida-Virumaa today are basically saying that let's not move there anything. There is a very clear political choice ahead whether or not we want to change something in Ida-Virumaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U68	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Siim Kisler! I invite Andrus Saare, a member of the Cultural Commission, to attend the speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U69	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Draft 664 has been on the agenda twice for the Committee on Culture. For the first time, we discussed this during the spring session on 9 June. In addition to the members of the committee, Mr Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Education and Research, Reelika Ein, Adviser to the Human Resources Policy Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, Ramon Loik, Vice Rector for Research and Development of the Academy of Internal Defence, Andres Noormägi, Head of the Land of Ida-Viru and Siim Kiisler, representative of the initiator of the draft. Mr Kiisler presented the content of the draft in the Commission and explained why, in the opinion of the initiators, it is reasonable and possible to establish a new complex of the Academy of Home Affairs in Ida-Virumaa. As what was said in the Commission largely coincides with what Mr Kisler explained here today very long and thoroughly, I will not repeat it in the interests of time savings. However, I would like to point out what other guests spoke about in the committee and what the members of the committee asked for. Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Education and Science, explained that he was guided by the government's programme of action, which states that in order to increase the state's presence, consideration should be given to moving the Academy of Home Affairs to Ida-Viru County. The Ministry of the Interior is responsible for this and the deadline is set for the fourth quarter of 2014. The Minister considers the proposal to be worth considering and analysing in substance. The Ministry of Education and Research has planned EUR 15 million of European Union funds for this investment. The lack of money, if there is a shortage of money, should, in the Minister's view, be found in the amounts of measures taken by other ministries. It is not impossible to do so if you want to do good. According to the Minister, this is certainly a positive decision on regional policy, but it is important that the quality of education does not deteriorate as a result of the relocation of the institution. According to Mr Ossinovski, a substantive analysis should be carried out and, if risk areas arise, solutions must be found to how risks could be mitigated. The representative of the Ministry of the Interior said that they are also discussing an alternative, which does not mean that the entire educational institution is relocated to Ida-Virumaa. In order to increase the state's presence, they are considering the proposal to establish an internship base of the Academy of Internal Defence in Ida-Viru County. What are the advantages and disadvantages or risk points of one or the other option, its analysis was ongoing in June. The representative of the National Defence Academy explained to the members of the Commission that the Academy is already present in Ida-Virumaa. Namely, 150 upper secondary schools in Narva and Kohtla-Järve acquire pre-vocational training. This will be done in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Research. These are the young people that the academy considers to be potential cadets. The biggest concern of the management of the National Defence Academy for this plan is the expected drop in the quality of education. In a school survey, about half of the lecturers replied that, in case of compensation or other incentive, they were ready to continue their work in Ida-Virumaa, while the other half of the lecturers did not agree to do so either. The representative of the National Defence Academy supported the proposal of the Ministry of Internal Affairs to establish an internship base in Narva, which would mean that each cadet will pass about two months of practice in Narva. According to Ramon Loigu, this would mean that about a hundred cadets would be in practice in Ida-Virumaa for about a year. Mayor Andres Noormägi gave us an example of a neighboring country in Finland, where such educational institutions are located along the border with Finland. At least 20% of posts in Narva are vacant at the border. According to the County Elder, the transfer of the Academy to Ida-Virumaa would be a natural and statesmanly decision. Members of the Commission were interested in what activities and entities are meant by the traineeship base. Would it just be a dorm? We were told that almost all the institutions managed by the Ministry of Interior in Ida-Virumaa, such as seven rescue officers, police stations, border guards and also the Viru prison in Jõhvi, are considered as an internship base. Practice is currently taking place in all regions of Estonia. One member of the Commission was interested in why the representative of the drafter in the government did not take the decision himself. That's what he asked in this hall today. The answer was that the Fatherland and Res Publica Union took this proposal to the government on several occasions, but since the previous Prime Minister did not support this idea, the reason was that there were no resources, it was not approved by the government. At the same time, it was agreed that the idea should be moved forward, and consideration was given to the proposal to include it in the government action programme. In the view of some Members of the Commission, the wording of the draft is not the best, Mr Kisler agreed to consider changing the wording when proposals come to that effect. In conclusion, the members of the Commission shared the view that the analysis to be prepared in the summer would be awaited and that the topic would be returned at the beginning of the autumn session. On 9 September, a meeting of the Committee on Culture was held at which this draft was discussed. This session was attended by Hanno Pevkur, Minister of the Interior, Lauri Tabur, Rector of the Academy of Internal Defence, and Siim Kiisler again as the representative of the author of the draft. The Minister confirmed that despite the establishment of the Estonian National Defence Academy in four different study centres, the quality of teaching is good. The following assessment of the technical condition of the study buildings was made by the Minister: in Muraste good, in Väike-Maarja it was rather good, in Paikus the average, in Tallinn Kase Street the corps is not in good condition and needs renovation. According to the Minister, the planned EUR 15 million in the Ministry of Education and Research could be spent on renovating the school corps on Kase Street. The Minister did not support the sale of this corps and the move of the unit to Ida-Virumaa. Mr Pevkur suggested that members of the Commission consider and support the proposal to establish an internship base in Ida-Virumaa. From an investment point of view, this would mean in particular renovation of the dormitory. This dormitory is planned to be used with the University of Tartu in the future. Siim Kiisler, who had defended the draft, pointed out that the 15 million euros planned by the previous government were intended specifically for targeted Ida-Virumaa and not for renovation of Tallinn's study corps. The members of the Commission continued to ask questions where the debate left off in the spring. There was an interest in knowing more about what this internship base is, how many students and technical staff there are. The Rector explained that the number of trainees depends very much on the number of study places ordered by the state. The number of trainees planned is up to 100 and the duration of the traineeship is one to three months. In addition, there is a clear need to train internships supervisors who are currently in short supply. According to the Minister's specification, 95 dormitory spaces are needed at peak times, with 20 to 30 beds for the least stressful period. The management of the dormitory of trainees has so far been at the expense of the National Defence Academy and should remain so in the future. A suitable dorm building is currently being sought in both Narva and Jõhvi. They asked whether the four separate study centres would then be added to the fifth or internship centre in Narva, Ida-Virumaa. According to the Minister, there are more than four centres left; in the future, Paikuse's study centre will be abandoned. The Minister was also asked whether other possibilities for building a study corps had been considered, such as renovation of a building complex in Narva, the cost of which would be in the same order of magnitude as the cost of renovating the school corps on Kase Street. The minister's answer was no. The main argument why the transfer of the Pevkur National Defence Academy to Ida-Virumaa as a representative of the government is still expected to fall in the quality of education caused by the lack of qualified teaching staff in Ida-Virumaa. At the end of the debate, the Commission decided to appoint a rapporteur for the Commission, send the draft to the large Chamber by 18 September and put the draft decision to the final vote. The draft was adopted in favour of 5 and against 3 members of the Commission. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U70	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U71	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, Thank you for a very thorough review. But just in case, did we discuss any specific amounts? In particular, I am interested in three things. Firstly, how much could the construction of the Estonian National Defence Academy complex in Ida-Virumaa, for example, in Narva? Secondly, it is claimed that about 130 apartments of 60 m2 would be needed to move to Ida-Virumaa. How much money would that take? And thirdly, when the move takes place, Pirita will have a very highly valued land available in Tallinn, the sale of which is unlikely to be a problem. What could be passed on to the plus side of the budget? Was this discussed, and if so, what amounts are we talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U72	It was discussed, but not so that I could answer you exactly. When we asked the Minister how much it would cost to transfer the entire complex to Narva, he replied that he estimated that this amount could be EUR 60 million. According to the previous speaker, the previous government found 40 million enough. However, this assessment of the amount of sales of current complexes has not been made or asked.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U73	Thank you. Please, Margus Tsahkna!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U74	Thank you. Dear waitress, I ask such a political question. We can talk a lot about details, costs and much more here, but we all understand that this is a political decision, whether or not the Republic of Estonia needs to be more present in Ida-Viru County. I am asking about what happened in the Commission, about how the various political forces voted. After the Commission's hearing, the press felt a little punitive action against the Soviets. How do you predict what the outcome of the vote will be? Do you or do you not agree with your programming position?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U75	I have no reason to believe that no one will stand up to their earlier decisions. The debate that took place in the Commission was very substantive and, regardless of the political lines of power, I generally had the impression that it was still the opinion that the transfer of the Academy of Home Affairs to Ida-Viru County was reasonable and that the details had to be discussed. I hope for the best.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U76	Thank you. Please, Barbi Pilvre!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U77	Thank you. Dear waitress, Did the Commission mention any options for using that plot in the public interest in Pirita Kosel? This is a large and expensive piece of land, while in the Pirita district there is a lack of public-interest institutions, I mean school and kindergarten. Was the Commission just about selling it to real estate development?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U78	Unfortunately, I owe you an answer. The Commission did not discuss this issue, not even the sale of this property. These sales have not been analysed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U79	Thank you. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U80	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I so understood that Minister Ossinovski was against this decision. You cannot move to the academy in Ida-Viru County because you cannot guarantee quality. Let me get this straight. Minister Ossinovski was against you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U81	Thank you. So my ability to express myself was slow. The Minister of Education did not object. He said it was a thought worth considering and basically he supported it, but in June there was no proper analysis. He wanted to see an analysis that would show confidence that the quality of education would not fall. The Minister also found that, if there are any risks or other problems, they must be resolved and a solution found so that the quality of learning does not fall. So the minister didn't mind.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U82	Thank you. Please, Andre Sepp!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U83	Thank you. Honourable waitress! At the end of 2012, an analysis of the socio-economic impact of the location of the study complex of the Estonian Defence Academy was completed, which is very thorough. I hope that the Members of the Commission were familiar with this when they discussed the draft. You have mentioned this several times for the unfinished analysis of the Ministry of the Interior in June. Is it there now, and if so, is it possible to get acquainted with it? And when it's done, was it accounted for?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U84	Yes, this analysis has been completed, and I hope it is available among our materials. But it's very voluminous, I can't read it here. There's a variety of options considered, there's pros and cons. The Commission did not dissect it separately, but I hope that all the members of the Commission have read it. I would say that this material offers arguments to one side and to the other. Ultimately, the decision is still for politicians to make.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U85	Thank you very much. No more questions for the waitress. We're opening negotiations. Please, on behalf of the Reform Party Group, Lauri Luik.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U86	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The wider regional location of public authorities is, in my opinion, important. The payment order centre in Haapsalu is a good example of a regional relocation of a public authority. The smooth functioning of the institution has been ensured, and several local professionals have had jobs in their home country. It is certainly important that Ida-Virumaa is also more familiar with the presence of the state. This draft proposes the idea of reorganizing the entire Academy of Home Affairs by building a new centre in Ida-Virumaa instead of the four current study buildings. This would cost the country EUR 60 to 80 million. In addition, this means replacing a large number of staff, including competent teaching staff, with someone else, and further challenges for students should be addressed. Given the current educational, regional, security and economic situation, it seems very rational to establish an internship base of the Academy of Internal Defence in Ida-Virumaa, which would ensure a consistent presence of about 100 cadets in the region. The establishment of a traineeship base would also help to achieve the objectives set out in this draft. In addition, the idea of building an internship base is certainly faster feasible, while the smooth work of the Estonian National Defence Academy in the four existing study buildings would continue. Therefore, in our opinion, the establishment of a traineeship base is faster feasible and also more rational in the current circumstances.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U87	Thank you very much. Please, on behalf of the Group of the Urmas Reinsalu Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U88	Dear Riigikogu! The message of the IRL is one and clear: we will make this decision today! Yes, this decision requires a greater effort from the Republic of Estonia and all the authorities than not making this decision, but this is the moment in which we must dare to make that decision. We welcome the fact that our allies are prepared to contribute to the security of the Republic of Estonia. We show that we are prepared to take steps that are more labour-intensive and bolder, but necessary to strengthen the security of our country in order to increase the presence of the Republic of Estonia in Ida-Viru County and to ensure that Estonia develops uniformly! The arguments against this decision do not hold water. First of all, there's money. The previous government, on the proposal of the IRL, provided for this money; it is possible to do so with European Union funds. The question is where to build the new building of the National Defence Academy and how. Secondly, the quality of education. The quality of education can be guaranteed. As the analysis carried out showed, this requires additional contributions, additional work, but this can be achieved. Thirdly, the argument has been made that the transfer of the National Defence Academy to Ida-Virumaa is physically dangerous for this educational institution. Ida-Virumaa is not a safe enough place to study a thousand young people, including police and security training. The protection of the institution cannot be guaranteed there. That's the spirit of surrender. If we are based on such a philosophy in organising the state life of Estonia and planning the future of Ida-Viru County, it is a surrender. Then the Republic of Estonia will surrender. You can't do that. Our message is clear: let us support this decision today. Now is the moment when there are no real obstacles to making that decision. I call on all members of the Riigikogu to take their stand. This part of the bill is supported by the members of the Riigikogu, but some are, in my opinion, not justified, but strongly opposed to it. I think that the worst solution is not to vote on such a fundamental issue, not to take a position. This is the moment when we shouldn't be sidetracked. This is not a political party issue, it is a state-political issue, and I hope that Parliament has sufficient will to make this decision today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U89	First of all, I will answer the first question. Planning the use of euro money is very long. In essence, decisions were taken concerning the measures of the previous period, and the larger amounts of which were spent in the 2007-2013 government office at the end of 2006, when the pre-election government of the Riigikogu was in office in 2007. I can't believe it, but it's a long time. There the rails were actually laid down, the orders of magnitude were designed, where, for example, how many urban areas, how many rural areas, etc. These decisions were already taken at the end of 2006 and, after them, it would be rather difficult to redeploy larger amounts. This government, to which I belonged, decided to negotiate with the European Commission on the view that, among the amounts for the development of higher education, there were certain instruments for the Academy of Home Affairs. It is very difficult for the government currently in office to change it, the rails have been laid down. However, the government, as I said, will be able to influence the decision where exactly this money will be used, which complex in which area. Sorry, I didn't write down the second question. Collaboration with local governments? When we were in government, we were indeed in close contact with the municipalities in the development of the Ida-Virumaa Action Plan. Municipalities were involved in this activity. As I said, I thought obviously the brightest, most effective idea at the time was to move to the National Defence Academy. No other thoughts were made with this effect. Language courses and all such activities are great things, we know that, but if the study building of the Academy of Home Affairs is built in Ida-Virumaa, it is in some respects a key step. Then the euro money for Ida-Viru County can also be used to support other activities, whatever is needed there at the moment. For example, access to a new building could be built under this measure. But it all starts with that the measure regulation comes to coordination. First of all, it will be submitted to coordination by the Ministry of the Interior. What the Minister of the Interior writes there will certainly depend much on what we decide here. Of course, if the government's view is that we are spending the money of the National Defence Academy in Tallinn, it makes no sense to allocate the money for the measures of Ida-Virumaa to build the academy's access road. In summary, this is a decision of the level of government that the Riigikogu can propose to the Cabinet in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U90	Thank you. However, ladies and gentlemen, obviously two questions in one are not acceptable. Please, Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U91	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! First of all, the National Defence Academy and Ida-Viru County. I express my position: I am in favour of it, too. But I am a rational person and I am in favour of rational solutions where money is used wisely. Ida-Virumaa The establishment of the internship base of the Estonian Academy of National Defence according to the current government's plan seems more appropriate to me, with a better result for less money. But I also have a question. First of all, you spoke about the security aspect. I didn't quite understand the security risk in Ida-Virumaa, either the people who live there, or the big neighbor. I didn't understand that. Another thing, do you not think that real investment is much more necessary in the interests of Eastern virumaans than artificial investment in concrete? I have been communicating with the Eastern virumaans and I have realised that they rather expect investment in infrastructure, job creation, the environment, sports facilities and other such real things, not artificial formations that will not work in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U92	Thank you. There were four questions, I wrote them down this time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U93	Pick one and answer it!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U94	First of all, from this internship base. What does that mean? As I said, it is planned under the Ida-Viru measure that this money will establish an internship base. Sounds like a word, but basically it means repairing a dormitory, and that's all. This is the internship base for which much less jobs would be created than if the funding allocated under the higher education measure was used in Ida-Virumaa. The establishment of an internship base would mean that higher education money would go to Tallinn, with the money for Ida-Viru, but one dormitory would be fixed. If a school building was built, the money allocated to higher education would move to Ida-Viru instead of Tallinn. This is a significant difference, much higher investments would go to Ida-Virumaa. If there were to be an Internal Defence Academy complex, the benefits of creating new jobs would be much greater and the state's presence would be visible. That's what we all understand. Now, security risks. We understand that the closer to the eastern border, the greater the security risks. In this sense, of course, we must look at the situation as a whole. Recently, we saw that Southeast Estonia also has its own risks. My personal opinion is that if you choose Ida-Virumaa, you could choose Narva for this place.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U95	Thank you. Please, Marko Pomerance!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U96	Thanks! This internship base is everywhere in Estonia, where there are emergency services, where there are police, where the Tax and Customs Board operates and where there are prisons. In my opinion, the establishment of this internship base in Ida-Virumaa would mean at least two jobs: someone has to share laundry in the dormitory and collect dirty laundry from the trainees. But can you tell me, Siim, what should be done in a situation where there's really no enthusiasm for doing this East Viru County business? If we now suddenly, in a regrettable way, come to the conclusion that the transfer of the National Defence Academy to Ida-Virumaa is absolutely impossible, should we perhaps stop doing this in the name of Ida-Virumaa? Let him tick and be like he's in there.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U97	I wouldn't want to stop the screaming. Maybe it's not rational, maybe it's emotional, but we can see that there are rational considerations back there. The general principle of regional policy is that maximum must be taken from each region. Each region must maximise Estonia's potential for development and growth. Ida-Viru County could give much more so that Estonia as a whole would do well. Let's look this way! The Estonian Academy of Defence is still not quite comparable to the University of Tartu, for example. Consider, for example, where this practice is real. I mean, those jobs are at the border. When we talk specifically about border guards, border guards do not have very many jobs in Tartu. There's a lot more of them in Narva. It is difficult to move every state institution to Virumaa, but moving to the National Defence Academy is one of the easiest in the current context. If, for some reason, the government does not support this decision, although, as I emphasised, it is a concrete and concrete election promise of the Reform Party, then we need to think very seriously about what the next and better offer is. Unfortunately, there has been no good offer. That's a lot of concern. The way the Riigikogu is voting on this issue is, in my opinion, a very strong indicator. A very strong indicator that gives a very clear message to Ida-Viru County.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-18_U98	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
