ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the further session of the VIIth plenary session of the Riigikogu. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please, Marko Mihkelson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of 63 members of the Riigikogu, I am pleased to hand over the draft statement of the Riigikogu in support of Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity. With this draft statement, which we are dealing with today, the Riigikogu condemns the actions of the Russian Federation's armed forces against Ukraine, the occupation of Crimea and Russia's attempts to divide Ukrainian society. We also wish the occupation forces of the Russian Federation to leave Ukraine without delay and to implement the bilateral agreement on military bases. In its draft statement, the Riigikogu deplores the activities of the Russian Federation, which are contrary to international law, many laws and obligations that Russia itself has assumed. In the draft statement, the Riigikogu recognises the Supreme Rada of Ukraine as the elected authority of the people, whose legitimacy being called into question by Russia is direct interference in the internal affairs of Ukraine. We also feel it is essential to send observation missions to Ukraine, including Crimea, without delay. We call on our partners in the European Union, as well as other members of the international community, to provide all-faced assistance to Ukraine. We also call on the European Union to take steps as soon as possible to allow Ukraine to conclude an association agreement with the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U3	Thank you. I'm asking for a speech chair for Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U4	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you to those who are here today. So I had the opportunity to hand over an inquiry in a week without a hearing. This question is to Mr Parts, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, and I believe that this question is more important than this draft statement which was previously handed over here. [[Whistle and shit.]] This is a request for confirmation by municipality of the breakdown of funds allocated to the storage of publicly used local roads in 2014. The proposed allocation to the municipality may be up to EUR 600000. Eight municipalities with transit traffic could apply for this money. Narva, my hometown, applied. In fact, in order to clean up the streets used as transit routes in Narva, EUR 4.9 million is needed. Only the municipality of Hiiu will receive less money from Narva than the eight municipalities on the list. Excellent, fantastic! The city of Võru, where there are probably more transit journeys than in Narva, receives EUR 600000, the self-financing is 11%, Jõhvi Municipality receives EUR 576900, the self-financing is 10%, Narva receives EUR 155550 for two street parts. This is where we have a few questions. We want to know what the principle of allocating this money is and whether it is true that such a distribution is linked to the elections to the Riigikogu next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U5	On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted a draft statement. The Board of the Riigikogu decides to accept this procedure in accordance with the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act. I have also accepted an inquiry on behalf of the Riigikogu's board. If it complies with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu shall forward it to the addressee without delay. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I will take the chairman's break for ten minutes so that the Bureau can accept the draft statement from the Riigikogu. We meet in the office of the President of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U6	Ladies and gentlemen, The break taken by the manager is over. Let's go to the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the procedure s. a On 5 March 63 a draft of the Riigikogu statement "in support of Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity," submitted by a member of the Riigikogu, whose commission is the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The deadline for tabling amendments shall be s. 5 March at 3 p.m. As the Riigikogu Board has adopted this draft, a second additional session will be held today at 4 p.m., on the agenda of which the first reading of draft 608 will be held in support of Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity. The text of the draft statement and the explanatory memorandum will be made available to you as soon as possible, at the latest by the beginning of the discussion of the draft statement. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has already previously adopted the following drafts and appointed leading committees to them. First, in the Committee of Inquiry to determine the circumstances in which the claims brought together by the VEB Fund are dealt with and met. a Amendment of the decision of the Riigikogu of 27 February, "Construction of the Riigikogu Committee of Inquiry to the Riigikogu for the purpose of determining the circumstances in which the claims have been processed and met by the VEB Fund', the leading committee of which is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Secondly, the members of the Riigikogu, Andres Herkel and Juku-Kalle Raidi s. a Draft Act amending the Local Government Council Election Act and the Riigikogu Election Act, initiated on 27 February, whose commission is the Constitutional Committee. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. a Communication from the European Commission to the European Commission on the exchange of data between the European Union and the US submitted on 27 February. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the Constitutional Committee to give an opinion on the positions and communications of the Government of the Republic. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 20 March 2010 at 4 p.m. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded an inquiry into the members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. 80 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 21. Pursuant to § 55 (1) of the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the agenda for the additional sitting must be approved at the beginning of the session. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I will put to the vote the agenda for the next sitting on 5 March. Please take a stand and vote. 79 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U7	An important national issue, the situation in Ukraine, is starting to be discussed. The rapporteur is Urmas Paet, Minister of Foreign Affairs. Let me brief you on the procedure for discussing this issue. First of all, the Foreign Minister is Urmas Paet's presentation, which lasts up to 20 minutes. The following questions and answers will last up to 60 minutes in total. A member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to the rapporteur. After the presentation and questions have been answered, negotiations will be opened. Members of the Riigikogu, representatives of committees and political groups may speak. We have up to 90 minutes to negotiate. At the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I propose that the Riigikogu take the floor first by representatives of the political groups. The Riigikogu will not take a decision after the end of the discussion. I beg the Foreign Minister of the Speaker Urmas Paeti!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U8	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Ukraine's crisis is the biggest security and confidence crisis in Europe following the Balkan wars and the Georgian conflict. Russia has led troops to Crimea and it is anti-Ukraine aggression. This cannot be accepted and has been clearly condemned. The actions of Russian forces in Crimea are a violation of Ukrainian sovereignty and territorial integrity. Russia must stop the aggression in Ukraine and restore the pre-crisis position of its troops. The decision of the Russian Parliament allowing the use of the Russian army in Ukraine must also be annulled. Russia has used the threat to the Russian minority there as a pretext for the deployment of military forces in Crimea. It's a fabricated and wrong assumption. The main objective of the new Ukrainian government, which has just taken office, is to make the broken and badly shaken Ukrainian society work again. There are many peaceful ways of solving the problems of the people of Crimea. Russia's interference with military force runs counter to a number of international agreements: the UN Charter, the Helsinki Final Act, the 1997 basic agreements between Russia and Ukraine and the 1994 Budapest Memorandum. Russia is clearly violating international law and is further stressing the critical situation in Ukraine. This is exactly the opposite of what Ukraine really needs. There is no need for anyone to exacerbate the situation; it is not necessary for Ukraine, the people of Crimea or Russia. To date, according to the Ukrainian Government, 1800 Russian military personnel, 60 military vehicles and 10 armored vehicles have blocked 11 Ukrainian military bases. Russia's Black Sea fleet is still blocking Ukrainian naval vessels in Crimea. In total, 16,000 military personnel have been deployed in Crimea by warships, helicopters and transport aircraft from Russia. The Russian soldiers also block and control important government agencies and military objects in Crimea: the Crimean Parliament, all civilian and military airfields, some communication facilities, radio stations, customs, military and coastguard bases, and the Ukrainian naval headquarters in Crimea. Russia's main objective is obviously to achieve changes in the Ukrainian government and the desire to get Ukrainian policy under its direct influence in order to ensure Ukraine's accession to the Eurasian Union and the Customs Union in order to secure its influence there. We are extremely disappointed with Russia's steps in Crimea. It is quite clear that cooperation and trust between the international community and Russia have been seriously damaged. The international community has widely condemned Russia's aggression in Crimea. Strong statements have been made both by countries individually and by international organisations such as the European Union, NATO, the United Nations and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. The situation and future steps have also been discussed and discussed by the North Atlantic Council, the Foreign Ministers of the European Union, the UN Security Council, the OSCE and the Council of Europe. Tomorrow, the European Union will consider further steps by the Heads of State or Government of the European Union. We keep in constant contact with the Estonian Honorary Consul in Crimea to monitor the situation of the Estonian community there and to provide assistance quickly if necessary. According to our data, there are 600 ethnic Estonians living in Crimea, 14 of whom are Estonian citizens. Dear Riigikogu! What can we do to support Ukraine? Russia must understand that aggression in Crimea will not stand by. The events of recent days must not form the basis for a new frozen conflict in addition to South Ossetia, Abkhazia and Transnistria. Russia has received a clear and unambiguous message from the international community. The international community will further consider ways of imposing restrictions or sanctions. The U.S. Senate, for example, has spoken about it freshly. Several US-Russia cooperation projects have been suspended. Member States' preparations for the forthcoming G8 summit have also been suspended. The US has also suspended military contacts and bilateral economic dialogue with Russia. However, it is clear that the targeted restrictions on Russia are all the more effective the more the US and Europe are on the same foot here. As I said, the European Council, composed of the Heads of State or Government of the European Union, will meet tomorrow. There may also be economic constraints. The introduction of restrictions on movement may be prevented, in conjunction with the suspension of talks on a visa waiver agreement between the European Union and Russia. The preparation of the new framework agreement between the European Union and Russia must also wait for the situation to return to normal. Ukraine and Russia need to start talking in substance. The Ukrainian Government has repeatedly expressed its willingness to do so. The international community has offered to help mediate talks. Cupping and not dealing with the problem does not undo it, but deepens it. The OSCE National Minorities Commissioner, the Special Representative of the Presidency and the Media Commissioner will be present in Ukraine. The OSCE mission to Ukraine is also being prepared to collect information on the conflict and to try to prevent it from deepening by mediating dialogue between the parties. Estonia is also ready to participate in this mission. The problem, however, is that, although there is a draft mandate to send the OSCE to the conflict zone a large mission of about 100 people, it requires consensus in the OSCE to approve it. This is quite unlikely to be achieved, because it also needs Russia's consent. Astrid Thors, OSCE National Minorities Commissioner, President Guldimann and Media Commissioner Mijatovic are currently in Ukraine, who tried to go on a fact-finding mission in Crimea last night. As of this morning, they had not yet been admitted to Crimea. A human rights assessment mission, a political dialogue mission and a military inspection are also planned. Estonia is ready to participate in the military inspection with two observers. This mission should begin today with a meeting in Odessa, but Russia has already announced that it will not authorise its military sites. Unfortunately, given that it is possible to block all activities in Russia in the OSCE, the European Union must be ready to start its own observation mission. This has been effective in Georgia. The international community must also help the new Ukrainian government to stabilise the situation. Constitutional reform and free and fair presidential elections must be carried out. The consolidation of Ukrainian society and the reversal of peaceful development must be monitored to involve all parts of society. No region, national or social group must be left out of the architecture of the new Ukraine or feel that it is not their country. Estonia also offers its help in carrying out the serious reforms facing Ukraine. The Ukrainian economy is in a very difficult situation. Prime Minister Arseni Yatsenjuk has indicated that he inherited a country of 45 million inhabitants with a very limited amount of liquid funds to be measured in cash by the Treasury. It is therefore more than obvious that Ukraine urgently needs international financial assistance, otherwise it will be extremely questionable to stay on its feet. The International Monetary Fund has already sent its experts to Ukraine to identify the exact needs of the country. The foreign ministers of the European Union have also expressed their clear support for an international aid package that can alleviate the problems that need to be resolved quickly in Ukraine. In the future development of the whole situation, the crucial axis is the question of the supply of gas to Ukraine. Ukraine has outstanding gas bills for Russia for USD 1.5 billion. In the near future, the gas supply to Ukraine will most likely end at the current price, which could further increase the debt. Unfortunately, in the current situation, other and more radical steps by Russia cannot be ruled out, even though Russia's own income will also be greatly affected. It is therefore very important to develop alternative scenarios in case this should happen. The possibility of rapidly increasing the share of other energy sources in Ukraine should also be considered. Corruption and misuse of public money are one of the main reasons for the crisis in Ukraine. The way of government that led to the disastrous consequences was what the Ukrainian people had lost confidence in. The neglect of former rulers had deepened poverty and discontent. Corruption has long divided Ukrainian society. This has greatly reduced the confidence of many in the leaders and institutions of their country. Corruption has been both vertical and horizontal. On Monday, the Council of Foreign Ministers of the European Union decided that the property of persons who have used the funds of the Ukrainian Treasury or committed violations of human rights will be frozen in the European Union. It is extremely important that Ukraine has a clear European perspective. The European Union must, after all, be able to make this clear. People died on Maidan by sniper bullets because they wanted their country to get closer to us, or Europe. In recent days, the European Commission and DG Trade have started technical preparations for the adoption of a regulation on unilateral trade measures, which means tariff-free access for Ukrainian goods to the European Union market. In its former way, the European Union will keep on the table an offer to sign Association and Free Trade Agreements when Ukraine is ready. This readiness is conditional on the election of a new Ukrainian President in free elections. There are a number of concrete steps that Estonia has already taken to support Ukraine. We certainly intend to continue in this direction. In the last few weeks, Estonia has allocated EUR 85000 to those affected during the unrest in Ukraine. All this together makes Estonia one of the largest Ukrainian humanitarian supporters in Europe after the last events. As I said in the foreign policy debate held here less than a week ago, we have decided to double the number of scholarships for Ukrainian students so that they can come to Estonian universities to study. For example, last year in Ukraine, we supported various projects in the framework of development cooperation with EUR 340000. Now and in the near future, it is extremely important to share Estonian reform experiences and expertise with Ukraine, as Estonia is very reliable in this area. Good Riigikogu! We will also consider the possible effects of the events in Ukraine on Estonia. I assume that, in the light of these events, no one wants to question the costs that Estonia makes in order to ensure its security. 2% of GDP on defence expenditure After all, we have not come up with this number now and because of the events in Ukraine. So maybe we should consider increasing the proportion of defence expenditure. A violation of sovereign sovereignty for fictitious reasons is not acceptable. International law is binding on all parties and Russia must also understand it. I'm sure he will. Otherwise, we will return to the time before the law, where only a stronger right paid. I am convinced that this is not what any person, country or international organisation wants in today's world. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U9	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U10	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much for your very clear presentation and even more thanks for your active contribution to the crisis in Ukraine at international level in seeking solutions. I have two questions. The first concerns the immediate military threat to the regions bordering Russia. Are there any new areas of crisis? Secondly, I ask for your assessment of the speeches made by Mr Edgar Savisaar, President of the Centre Party. He has claimed that the Ukrainian Parliament is not legitimate and that there are criminal sticklers in power. This coincides with the Kremlin propaganda on Ukraine.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U11	Thanks for the questions. There is currently no immediate military threat to any other country in the region, although it is clear that aggression against Ukraine is affecting the security situation both in Ukraine's immediate neighbourhood and throughout Europe. Last week, Russia conducted extensive military exercises in the west of its country, which were of an extraordinary nature. Such developments do not reduce tension, but rather increase it. But Russia's aggression in Crimea continues. Every effort must be made to restore the pre-conflict situation and to stop Russia occupying all those objects in Crimea, which I have previously mentioned. Of course, everything must be done to prevent the invasion of other parts of Ukraine. Against this background, I would like to emphasise once again, it is extremely important that the decision of the Russian Parliament, which gives a mandate to use the Russian military forces unilaterally in Ukraine, be revoked. This decision applies now and now and all the time. It is not normal for Parliament to have given such a mandate. As far as statements are concerned, as if the Ukrainian Parliament and the government that it has established are not legitimate, I do not agree with them under any circumstances. The Ukrainian Parliament has been elected in free elections and the new Government has received the support of a clear majority of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U12	Thank you. Please, Marko Mihkelson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U13	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Minister, I also thank you for the very clear and topical presentation you gave. I will clarify the question of Mr Arto Asa. In recent days, many people in Estonia have followed with reasonable concern what is happening in Ukraine and around Ukraine. Knowingly, as you yourself mentioned, these events have a very large, cross-border effect. Perhaps you will once again specify to the people who are watching this broadcast how seriously the people of Estonia should be concerned about the situation? Is there a real security threat for Estonia, and how do you see Estonia's respective services working in the current situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U14	Thank you. Please, Urmas Glass!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U15	There is no immediate security threat to Estonia at the moment, so it is not worth stressing itself or society as a whole. But, as I said, I believe that all thinking Europeans are, of course, concerned about Russia's aggression in Ukraine, because the course of things has shown that, unfortunately, Russia's steps are also unpredictable today. As long as aggression continues, the security situation across Europe will be different. But I say once again that there is certainly no reason to worry about Estonia's security now and now. The Estonian authorities, as well as our partners in NATO, the European Union and other international organisations, are doing their job well.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U16	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! I would like to ask about our compatriots, about Estonians and Estonian citizens in Ukraine and especially in the current region of Crimea. You briefly mentioned the number of these people and the work of the Honorary Consul. Does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs still have additional opportunities and channels to get an overview of our people's situation there, so that they can be helped quickly if necessary?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U17	In Crimea, our direct information channels, yes, our honorary consul in Simferopol, as well as the local Estonian Society and its leaders, with whom our embassy in Kiev has a permanent connection. We have also been in contact with them from Tallinn. So there is direct contact with our community in Crimea. As far as the rest of Ukraine is concerned, our embassy in Kiev, including its consular department, is working all the time and is ready to help our countrymen and citizens whenever necessary at any moment. We have had debates that if there are Estonian citizens who would like to leave Ukraine and come to Estonia, we are certainly ready to help them. There are no people like that right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U18	Thank you. Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Minister for Foreign Affairs, I also thank you for this speech. You said, among other things, that there must have been presidential elections in Ukraine before the association agreement with the European Union was concluded. I want to get a little clarification on that. Here we can see the risk of the European Union losing pace again. There is more than two and a half months of time, but it can be really urgent to conclude a contract. After all, we keep emphasising that the decisions of the Supreme Council are legitimate, so the government is also legitimate, and that the acting President is now Mr Turchynov is legitimate.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U20	Estonia's view is that we could sign this agreement today. In my introductory speech, I brokered the consensus position of the European Union. At present, the common position that has been achieved is that there should have been presidential elections before. Estonia is ready to act faster, but the common position of the European Union needs a decision from all 28 Member States.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U21	Thank you. Please, Mart Nutt!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U22	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister of Foreign Affairs! You mentioned that the European Union has suspended negotiations with Russia on a visa waiver agreement. But we know that, in principle, the European Union has already agreed on visa liberalisation with Russia with regard to service passports. At the same time, the service passports are used not only by civil officials but also by military personnel abroad. What about the passports now? Does the suspension of the visa waiver agreement also mean that visa liberalisation will not be introduced for people with service passports?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U23	Firstly, this amendment to the visa facilitation agreement between the European Union and Russia on service passports and visa waivers has not yet entered into force. So as of now, holders of service passports must also apply for a visa to travel to the European Union. If all possible talks on further visa facilitation are to be suspended, then, yes, of course, it must also cover this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U24	Thank you. Please, Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U25	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, The Riigikogu is preparing to accept the application. I have no problem with that, I signed this statement as a third, and I am among those who helped prepare this statement. My question, however, is as follows. Has the Ministry of Foreign Affairs identified a country in the world that clearly supports Russia's activities in Ukraine?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U26	I have not noticed any unequivocal support for Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U27	Thank you. Please, Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U28	Thank you. Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! You spoke about Estonia's contribution to mitigating the consequences of this crisis. We know that the economic situation in Ukraine is extremely difficult. In recent days, Russia has announced some steps that may make it even more difficult in the near future. Both Americans and Europeans have offered their so-called mitigation measures. How do you assess the current willingness of the international community to help Ukraine survive the acute economic crisis? The economic crisis certainly complicates their ability to cope with the invasion of a foreign country on their territory.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U29	I appreciate this readiness to be high. This applies to the European Union and the IMF, but above all, to the United States. As I mentioned, there is a mission from the International Monetary Fund in Kiev today. They want to get as precise a picture as possible of the exact financial situation of the Ukrainian State and of the financial flows that are needed and over time. The principle of preparedness is high, but it is necessary, on the one hand, to clarify what the IMF mission is doing there, and, on the other, the Ukrainian Government must present its own action plan covering both short-term activities to stabilise the economic situation and, in fact, further policy actions to reform the economy as a whole. I am pretty sure that once these things are done, it will be possible to make a decision on this aid package. I agree that there is not too much time for this.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U30	Thank you. Please, Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U31	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State, for your presentation. My question consists of two parts. According to my information, the Russian ambassador has been to our Ministry of Foreign Affairs to explain. What diplomatic explanations of the Russian party to the Estonian Ministry of Foreign Affairs have been, if any? What has been the communication on what is happening in Ukraine and especially in Crimea, and is there any hint or feeling that Russia can also change its attitude towards the ratification of the Estonian-Russian border treaty?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U32	The only direct contact during the period during which the crisis in Ukraine has developed is that we have asked the Russian ambassador to come to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to explain. There have been no more contacts and the issue of border agreements has not been touched upon by the Russian side during this period. Russia's representatives have, of course, explained elsewhere. As you probably know, the Russian ambassador at the UN explained Russia's views to all ambassadors, including the Estonian ambassador. The High Representative for Foreign Affairs of the European Union met with the Russian Foreign Minister yesterday in Madrid. So the European Union, which represents all the Member States, is communicating with Russia. In general, however, the attitude of Russia's representatives is not very different from what the whole world could have seen in the Russian Head of State's press appearance.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U33	Thank you. Please, Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U34	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you for your review. My question is about foreign organisations and foreign missions. You mentioned the OSCE and the problems this organisation may face when sending a mission to Ukraine. But there is also the UN, the Council of Europe, as well as the OSCE and NATO have a parliamentary assembly. What is the position of all these organisations? Do you have any information that they will shortly send their observation mission to Ukraine?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U35	Thank you. First of all, all the organisations you have mentioned have looked to the OSCE on this issue, because the issue of security is the statutory activities of this organisation, as its name says. But unfortunately, one Member State, I am thinking of Russia, can block the activities of this organisation and has already done so. I mentioned that the European Union has the opportunity to put together its own observation mission. After all, as we have seen and are still seeing in Georgia, it is, after years of conflict, essentially the only international observation mission that can operate in the first place. In Georgia, the OSCE mission was similarly forced to cease its activities. The Council of Europe could certainly send its observers to Ukraine as well as parliamentary assemblies. These organisations currently have two lines of action. Firstly, to monitor preparations for the presidential elections in Ukraine on 25 May. These elections must be fair and free. Secondly, the situation in Crimea must be monitored, but probably also in other regions of Ukraine. The short answer is yes. The more international organisations can send their representatives to this country, the better. The greatest possible presence of the international community in Ukraine is currently essential.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U36	Thank you. Please, Tõnis Kõiv!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U37	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, Minister, I also thank you for a thorough and meaningful report. My question concerns the reactions of our neighbouring countries in the north and south. We have called the Riigikogu exceptionally, we are discussing Ukraine and we are planning to adopt a statement. This is probably one of the most important things that a democratically elected Parliament can do. According to your information, what has the Finnish, Latvian or Lithuanian Parliament done or, for example, the Polish Parliament?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U38	I may not have all the information on this subject right now. As far as I know, Lithuania has made a joint statement by parliamentary committees dealing with foreign and security policy. In Finland, the Council, which is an analogue of our National Defence Council, met on the weekend. This Council discussed the issue of Ukraine and expressed its views. The Latvian State's senior political leaders have made a joint statement. A number of concrete positions have also come from the political leaders of Poland. I do not have any information that Parliament in one of our neighbouring or neighbouring countries has made a statement on behalf of Parliament as a whole, but that statements and joint statements have been made by parliamentary committees.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U39	Thank you. Please, Paul-Eerik Rummo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U40	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. How do you assess President Putin's statement yesterday at the press conference that he thinks the Ukrainian High Bank is partly legitimate? [[Chastichno]] What may have been the reason why President Putin was forced to make an admission that clearly differs from his official rhetoric and Russia at all on this issue? What could "partial legitimacy" mean? Or is it just President Putin's random improvisation?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U41	It's hard for me to say exactly what she meant. According to the usual logic, this is an opportunity to leave one door open so that there will be a further life, for example, in the form of negotiations or talks. In order to have these talks or negotiations, you must have a partner in another country that you accept. But it's a common logic. I don't know what he really meant.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U42	Thank you. Please, Rein Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U43	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you very much, Minister, for your views. You said in your presentation that we would prepare, hold discussions and then make joint decisions. However, compared to the European Union, the US has made concrete decisions more forcefully. There is a crisis, and Ukraine needs national and regional support to address the problems. Has a common understanding emerged during the crisis that the 28 Member States of the European Union should respond more promptly to these issues so that the decision-making period will not be so long in the future? As we know, it will not be until tomorrow for the Council, where the Heads of State and the Presidents will be together.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U44	Thank you. The first part of the answer comes from your question. The United States is one country with one central government. However, the European Union is an international organisation with 28 countries and 28 central governments, i.e. all decisions taken jointly by the European Union must be approved by the latter and the Koman in all 28 Member States. That was a short answer for the different paces. As regards the principled stance, the position of the Foreign Affairs Council of the European Union on Ukraine, published on Monday, was, in my view, very clear. All 28 Member States of the European Union said that what is happening is Russia's aggression against Ukraine, a violation of Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity, which must be brought to an end. Whether or not to take the next step and which restrictions and sanctions to impose are still open. We also need to look at what is the main objective. It is that the conflict should not develop further, but that the Russian army would return to the bases and the military would go back to where they came from. Talks and negotiations are most likely to be needed to achieve this objective. The whole picture is that, if a common starting point has been agreed, which has been clearly done today, the attitude towards what is happening in Ukraine and the assessment of it is common to the countries of the European Union. From there, we need to move forward in order to change the situation for the better. There are tools for this. Talks must be held with Russia with the participation of the international community. These restrictions, sanctions, etc. are the leverage. Each day, there is a search for a balance point on how to better achieve the main objective. The appropriate composition of open doors and pressure equipment for negotiation must be decided. It must be considered essentially every day, looking at the situation in Ukraine and Russia's behaviour there. So whether and to what extent the European Union will implement restrictions and sanctions depends on how Russia will behave in Ukraine in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U45	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U46	Thank you. Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, I'm asking about definitions. How do we define the situation in Ukraine? Is this aggression, occupation or invasion? How do you assess the situation as Minister of Foreign Affairs? What is it now?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U47	Thank you. Please, Juku-Kalle Raid!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U48	I appreciate it in such a way that all three terms are suitable for describing the situation in Crimea. An invasion, or invasion, has occurred. I also read the bill before, which military equipment and how many military personnel have been taken there. The occupation means that the functioning and local life of local authorities are essentially under the control of Russia. All these elements are covered by aggression. So all these words are suitable for characterizing the situation. The European Union's foreign ministers used the word 'aggression' in their Monday statement, while the United States has used the words 'invasion' and 'ocupation'. I'm sure you'll find different combinations. However, it is clear that everyone understands what is happening in the same way: Ukraine was invaded and the situation in Crimea is not under Ukrainian control.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U49	Thank you, manager. Good Urmas, thank you very much for your clear and specific speech! I believe you will join the greetings of six middle partyers who dared to sign a letter in support of Ukraine, despite the speech by the Head of the Centre Party, Edolf, where I read that Ukraine has no right to freedom. These six central parties are Olga Sõtnik, Aivar Riisalu, Jüri Ratas, Mailis Reps, Enn Eesmaa and Kadri Simson. I hope you'll tell me, in private, if you think they're the next to leave the Central Party. But my question is about military cooperation with Russia. Canada interrupted this cooperation. What can we do to make it clear to France and Germany that it may not be very nice to sell arms to Russia now?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U50	Margus Hanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U51	Yes, Estonia's position has been that the European Union should have an arms embargo since it is an aggressor state. After all, the European Union has clearly stated in the position of 28 foreign ministers that this is aggression. There is no consensus yet. What can I do? We can explain and justify our views and perceptions. I very much hope that Russia will do nothing more to help some partners clarify why this embargo is needed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U52	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, We see there's a massive information war, a propaganda war, alongside aggression. The media, funded by the Russian central government, is throwing a lie into the world. How is it possible to come out of this war as a winner?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U53	In all the last conflicts, a propaganda war has started immediately, along with military action. This is also what we see in the current crisis. Indeed, all kinds of lies and false accusations have been released. But what can be done in the media age? It is necessary to be consistent with the presentation of your messages and facts and to prove your claims. It is clear that the Russian side is using all the tools, media publications and other means under its control to shape the world's public opinion. This has been the case in the past, and this has always been the case between direct conflicts. There is nothing else to do here but be sure of your messages and, of course, hope that journalists will make a clear distinction between what is, and what motives one or the other message has been sent.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U54	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U55	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. The process of power exchange in Ukraine began when Janukovych refused to sign the Association Agreement. This was also justified. Of course, who can read a thousand pages, but on the official web page of the track I read a summary of what this contract is. Honestly, it's horrible, totally horrible! Europe views Ukraine as one of its colonies in Africa. Do you think it would be wise to amend this agreement and make it softer before offering it again to Ukraine for signature?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U56	I do not agree with the assessment on your question. Certainly, the European Union does not treat Ukraine or any other of its contractual partners badly. As long as the contract is in the project phase, it is possible to work on it. If a Member State of the European Union, the European Commission or Ukraine itself has proposals for this draft agreement, it is certainly possible to discuss them. After all, we're all human. But so far, no one has put forward any concrete proposal for this draft contract. The current Ukrainian Government says that the agreement in this form is suitable for Ukraine and they are ready to sign it. In Ukraine, as we have seen over the last few months, there are, yes, different opinions, but I would argue that they are not so much related to this agreement but are more fundamental. There are different opinions about the future of Ukraine in Europe at all, about what developments are being taken into account and who could be closer friends and allies. This difference of understanding is much more fundamental than a single draft contract.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U57	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U58	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, It has been said that Russian military forces control airfields, ports, certain authorities, etc. in Crimea. Soldiers operating on land are armed, organized, using vehicles with Russian military plates and Russian military weapons, but they do not wear a form with distinguishing marks. How does international law define those soldiers who currently control public space in Crimea?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U59	This, too, is a violation of international law when one country attacks another with military force, but does not clearly identify its military personnel. It is clear at the moment that this is Russia's military invasion of Ukraine, and that is exactly how it is handled. This is not the main issue of this conflict, but it is also important that, if one country is going to invade another country, its troops should be clearly identified and not hide their identity.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U60	Thank you. Please, Liisa-Ly Pakosta!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U61	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, thank you very much for your excellent speech and your thorough answers. My question concerns cyber attacks. From the Russian-Georgia War, we remember that Russian cyber attacks on Georgia began even before the physical invasion. What information does the Estonian Ministry of Foreign Affairs have about possible cyber attacks against Ukraine? Could Estonia's potential economic assistance to Ukraine include cyber security know-how and assistance in this area? If cybersecurity is not guaranteed, then the economy does not really work.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U62	In recent days, we have not received any data on major cyber attacks. As far as our assistance is concerned, as in previous times, we are ready to share with Ukraine all kinds of experience they want from us, including in the field of information technology. If the situation stabilizes a bit, we are ready to meet representatives of Ukraine and talk about what Ukraine would specifically like to receive from Estonia in the framework of development cooperation. At this stage, we are certainly ready to give 'arctic advice' to them as well. Similarly, we are ready for our people to participate in observation missions. As I said, two of our military observers will hopefully arrive there soon with the other observers. We are also ready to provide practical help. I spoke to the Ukrainian Foreign Minister on Monday, and we spoke briefly about this. I said that we were ready to give them all the know-how and share our reform experiences. His comment was that it certainly wanted to use this help in some area. He thanked Estonia for years of cooperation and help.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U63	Thank you. Please, Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U64	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I, too, thank you for a good presentation and for answering questions very well. In your review, you pointed out a factor that became the last cup to be sufficient for the Ukrainian people. It's corruption, misuse of aid, etc. A few years ago, when I was in Ukraine, I heard people say that cars with traffic miles should be written 'DAL' instead of 'GAI'. Last week, when the Foreign Ministers were together in Brussels, a lot was said that a list of Ukrainian persons should be drawn up for whom a visa ban should be imposed and whose property should be frozen. Is there a list now? Secondly, I would like to know your assessment of whether the current leadership of Ukraine is able to bring the entire population of the country under one hat.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U65	As regards sanctions against those Ukrainian people who have done evil to their people, the last decision came this Monday from the meeting of the Foreign Ministers of the European Union. This concerns the freezing of property belonging to certain persons in the European Union and this decision should enter into force tomorrow. As far as the refusal of entry is concerned, it is partly still open, because there is a dispute as to what the purpose of this prohibition is, either deterrence or punishment. The aspect of elimination is no longer relevant. This was discussed on 20 February, when the latest events were still ongoing. So there are still discussions on the refusal of entry. But the asset freeze decision has been made and will come into effect tomorrow. The capacity of the government can, of course, be assessed above all by the Ukrainian Parliament, which has appointed this government. I hope, of course, that they step by step will increase their authority and support throughout Ukraine. The search for allies is, in any case, important at present; it concerns the overall political spectrum, civil society or the various regions of Ukraine. We all understand that Ukraine's current government is essentially one of the main tasks of building trust and feeling in its own country, which has been badly devastated over a long period of time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U66	Thank you. Please, Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U67	Thank you very much, manager. I, too, congratulate and thank the Minister for his excellent and explicit presentation. Now we're in business. The US is in favour of strong action against the aggressor. The European Union at the end of the Russian gas and oil syringe is classic torn apart: some Member States are in favour of sanctions and some still think that Russia can be dealt with quietly and wisely. When I listened to your presentation, I realized that Estonia is in favour of sanctions. How many Member States are in favour of sanctions? How successful has Estonia been in spreading its message among the Member States?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U68	There are those countries that think they could have done some things right away. The immediate suspension of the visa talks and the negotiations on the new framework agreement has been noted. Logically, this same arms embargo is included in this line, given that it is aggression. Those countries that are ready to do so now and now are still quite an important part of all the countries of the European Union. But, as I said, consensus is needed for all the decisions of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U69	Thank you. Please, Andre Sepp!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U70	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister for Foreign Affairs, thank you very much for a good overview here in the Riigikogu Hall today! But just as there was during the events in Maidan, in the current relations between Ukraine and Russia and in international communication, there is still a key word for legitimacy. Ukraine has planned to hold presidential elections on 25 May. Is it known that new parliamentary elections will also take place? Do you think it is even possible to organise them now and can their accelerated procedure contribute to the stabilisation of the situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U71	I visited Kiev last Tuesday and met representatives of Parliament's coalition and also of the new opposition. They then expressed, more than a week ago, a common view that the new parliamentary elections would most likely have to be organised, but in order not to increase political confusion, the presidential elections would take place first on 25 May. After that, it will be decided whether to organise parliamentary elections more quickly. But not everything is being done at the same time, so that in this country, apart from the maze of other problems, there is no confusion about the various elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U72	Thank you. Please, Rein Aidma!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U73	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister, for your review of the situation in Ukraine. Recently, one of the country's leaders gave a press conference. This country is one of the parties to this conflict. It said in a very elegant way that militias operating in Ukraine and particularly in Crimea simply bought their equipment from a shop and that it is only incidentally similar to Russian military equipment. Before the Russian troops were brought into or out of the bases, did they really take equipment without distinguishing signs to allow the militia to use it? What data do Ukraine have on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U74	Like I said, these events involve all sorts of strange stories. I have never heard or seen it possible to buy automatic weapons, armored vehicles and similar goods from a shop in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U75	Thank you. Please, Ene Ergma!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U76	Thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. The crime is, of course, very important. It's, as they say, litmus paper. But I am concerned about the future scenario in Eastern Ukraine, where industrial companies are located. Has this been discussed, given that presidential elections are approaching? What may be the future scenario where there are also very strong Russian-minded moods?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U77	Of course, this has been discussed and has been done with great concern. The primary objective, of course, is that Russia does not expand its aggression on the territory of Ukraine, including Eastern Ukraine. In recent days, however, it has been feared that Russia could also take this step. Secondly, it is, of course, extremely important that the Ukrainian Government and Parliament pay attention to what is happening in Eastern Ukraine in order to reassure society there. As we talked about earlier, there's a propaganda war, there's all sorts of horrors that are about to happen. It is very important to try to lower the temperature in this area, too, so that the dissemination of all kinds of rumours and misinformation and the sowing of panic do not evolve. The Ukrainian authorities must pay attention to reducing tensions in society. Thirdly, there is an important international aspect, which I have already mentioned here. The more representatives of the international community on the ground, the better. In addition to looking at the situation in Crimea, it is certainly important that an international presence be established in the cities of Eastern Ukraine, as well as in other regions of the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U78	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U79	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. If we are trying to assess the situation in Ukraine, of course the most important thing is the presence of Russian troops in Crimea. But next to that, the key word is joining or connecting the country. What has been the readiness of other ministers of the European Union to set up separate programmes for high school youths such as Donbass or Donetsk? The Ukrainians themselves have brought out this idea. Our programmes have been primarily designed for Ukraine as a whole. Of course, the western and central parts of Ukraine have been the most involved, while the east has been sidelined.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U80	Yes, it has been mentioned, although it has not been given too much attention in recent days, because other issues have been acute. But it is undoubtedly an important issue. It is important that Ukrainian society, including the same Eastern Ukraine, understands, for example, how the European Union works and what the European Union is. I mean, there's a lot of terrible myths about this. The more civil society and just people can see what this European Union really is, the better. I welcome with two hands all kinds of projects that will help the Ukrainian people to travel to Estonia as well. This could be done, for example, in the framework of partnerships between schools and municipalities. All this is very welcome. In the broader sense, Estonia clearly supports the European Union to move forward faster in the visa facilitation talks with Ukraine. This is also important in this context. In Ukraine, there has been such criticism of the accession to the European Union that it has in many ways been called an elite project. Someone has been somewhere, somebody is negotiating, important people are communicating in Kiev and Brussels, but a significant part of Ukraine's society has not understood what benefits the Ukrainian people will benefit if a free trade agreement is concluded with the European Union or if these relations become closer at all. The idea that this is some kind of elite project needs to be changed as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U81	Thank you. Please, Igor Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U82	Dear Minister, We've been talking about several ethnic groups. Maybe the day before yesterday, watching CNN's chronicle film, I noticed that the people I'm a little scared of are starting to move around on the screen. We're talking about groups wearing the symbols of Stepan Bandera. Just in case, I'm reminding you that they have nothing in common with fascists, when they met the bandangers, the SS flinched. These are not people in a normal human sense, and therefore Bandera cannot be compared to Petljura, Mahno, or anyone. In Ukraine, who knows how old pogrom traditions are. Seventy thousand Jews live there now. Now the synagogues have been burned, and the first Jews have been killed. What happens next? The Banderans are now, how to say, by accident, as if they were on our side.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U83	I do not agree with the fact that Ukrainian society could somehow be divided between us and them. After all, a fundamental attitude is that no violent extremism can be tolerated. All crimes, no matter who commits them, all violations of human rights, whoever commits them, must be condemned and the perpetrators punished, regardless of what signs they have been made. It's a principled attitude. It is clear that action by all possible extremists can only be contained if the situation in the country stabilises as quickly as possible. As we all understand, confusion and anarchy are a very good breeding ground for extremists and other such characters. The stabilisation of the situation will enable, I hope, the Ukrainian own law enforcement forces, those who should deal with this issue (the judicial system, etc.) to get back to work normally. As long as there is instability in this country, as long as the situation is anarchical, this water will be for the mill of all kinds of extremists. I talked about it in my speech, too. Russia claims that it went to Ukraine to calm something, which in itself is absurd. It is clear that Russia's invasion has actually increased nervousness, anxiety and instability, which in turn, as I said, is water for the mill of all kinds of extremists. Everything has to do with everything.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U84	Thank you. Please, Tiina Lock-Tramberg!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U85	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much for your excellent speech and very good answers. My question once again concerns Crimea. A referendum awaits. We know that the people of Crimea may not at all be in favour of the result that we expect and vote in favour of Russia. At the same time, there is a referendum in a situation where foreign forces are located in that territory, i.e. in a pressurised situation. Is this referendum and its results legitimate?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U86	Under the terms of the occupation, no referendum can be legitimate.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U87	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U88	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I kind of have the same question as the questioner. It is indeed difficult to assess the situation in Crimea. When it comes to referendums, we know that the municipalities of southern Ukraine also want to participate. I'm talking about Odessa, Herson and other places. Of course, here we can talk about the influence of Russia, the fact that these municipalities are going to open up to Kiev. But Lviv is also going to open up to Kiev, and there's no way we can talk about this effect. How will you assess if local governments do not consider Kiev's executive power to be legitimate (I am talking about the executive power, not about Parliament), how can we improve the situation throughout Ukraine?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U89	There is no other option here than that the Ukrainian Government, the central power of Ukraine, must restore confidence step by step through open communication. It is certainly not acceptable to take advantage of the great confusion and instability in order to meet any local ambition, which is deplorable. But now, in many places, the reality is that there are forces that are trying to take advantage of this situation. Once again, the stabilisation of the situation and the fact that there will not be a very radical shift in the development of another region of Ukraine will still have a decisive impact on the actions of the Ukrainian central government, which must increase confidence in itself. The presence of the international community in Ukraine is very important in order to have some objective picture of what is actually happening, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U90	Thank you. Please, Jüri Morozov!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U91	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, You mentioned in your speech that international missions to collect information in particular have been prevented from accessing Crimea. What opportunities do the international community have to gain access to this area, and have these opportunities been used to the maximum? Right now, we're just in the Russian information room.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U92	If by force the OSCE representatives are prevented from entering Crimea, it means that they simply cannot go there. After all, we have seen a similar situation in the case of South Ossetia and Abkhazia in Georgia, to which OSCE missions have not been launched in the same way in all these years. The OSCE mission was there before the 2008 conflict, but then its action was stopped because of Russia's opposition. The European Union mission in Georgia can only operate in areas controlled by the Georgian central government; it cannot operate either in Abkhazia or in South Ossetia. It's a reality. What can be done? Of course, there must be consistent international pressure. When Russia says that they think everything is very well, the question arises as to why international observers are not allowed to be present if everything is as they say it is. Firstly, everything must be done to ensure that international observers can access the area, but if they do not get there, they must be limited to those regions of Ukraine where they can go. As I mentioned, the regions where an international presence is necessary are indeed and still in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U93	Thank you. Please, Annely Akkermann!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U94	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr Minister, for a very substantive and clear speech and a thorough answer. You said that shaping the European Union's policy in Ukraine has remained an elite project. If you think about the time before this crisis and the situation now, at a time of crisis, do you think that the European Union's foreign policy should be more effective?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U95	As regards Ukraine and the other Eastern European countries participating in the Eastern Partnership programme, the short answer is yes. If there had been more will, the European Union could certainly have done more positive things in Ukraine and in other countries. In my introductory speech, I also spoke about it. I know the answer, but I can ask rhetorically why the European Union still cannot clearly tell Ukraine or Moldova that they have a European Union perspective if they meet all the criteria. After all, it has been a long-term principle that all European countries can apply for membership of the European Union if they fulfil the so-called Copenhagen criteria, but so far no consensus has been reached to say so to Ukraine and Moldova. This is certainly an important political aspect, but there are other, practical things that could have been done better. The cynical, but the classic principle is that, in every crisis, we need to think about how we can make good use of it in order to do better things after the crisis. I guess that's the way it is right now. I believe that everything that has happened in Ukraine in recent weeks and months has affected some as a wake-up call.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U96	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much, Foreign Minister Urmas Paet! We're going to negotiate. We have had this practice that the representatives of the political groups first get the floor in the debate on a crucial national issue. This practice has also been requested by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I hope that the reordering of calls will be accepted. The President of the sitting has information that Mailis Reps will speak on behalf of the Centre Party Group. I hope that this amendment will be accepted. Let's go to the speeches. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, please speak to Rein Lang.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U97	Mr President, eight minutes, just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U98	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U99	Time and again, we hear a magic word like 'geopolitics' around us. Around this word, you can construct all sorts of exciting theories that make blood freeze. Several of them become best-sellers, some even turn into movies. The common denominator of all the authors of these recent geopolitical analyses is the belief that somewhere there is a chess board, behind which there are some mysterious characters who move chess pieces that themselves have no ability to take action on the table on their own. The Albanians of Kosovo, Estonians, Crimean Tatars and other small nations are only pawns who have no role in the lot but to become defeated. But even the great nations, including 30 million Ukrainians, are only chess pieces moved by someone's hand. It is true that what is happening in Crimea today is Russia's legitimate revenge for humiliation in Kosovo. Friends! This thinking dates back to the 19th century and does not fit into the 21st century. A year and a half ago, I had the opportunity to visit Ram Allah, the capital of the Palestinian Authority, while visiting Israel, and to talk to people with a high social standing there. I had quite a sincere belief in the American Jewish conspiracy, in which the role of the Palestinians is to be a living bomb, to hold up an entire global conflict, resulting in higher oil prices. This reminded me of a trip to the island of Sakhalin in 1985. On the shores of the Wound Sea, where children built sand castles, Soviet soldiers were practicing right next to them to counter the attack from the sea. The officer supervising them took it for granted that little children could see from the ground low how they would be protected from the enemy. The same officer was sincerely surprised to hear that we have had time to travel as far away from Estonia as our country continues to fight fascism. It's all very familiar right now. The day before yesterday, the RT broadcast host of the Russian propaganda channel said lively that he thought Russia was wrong. Hundreds of commentators have described it as a bold act of action against their breadmaker. However, less is said that all journalists working in English who are currently on RT's payroll, including the nominated host, have been selected on the basis of a common section. All of them have in some way spread the conspiracy theory that the 11th September attacks on the Twin Towers of New York and the Pentagon were, in fact, a joint operation between the CIA and Mossad to launch a global war with a view to making profits for the transnational corporations. In today's media society, the border between fiction and reality is rather blurred. What someone thinks is a fact can easily be a beautifully presented fiction. Then the critics start analyzing the wrong artistic aspect, not talking about it being just a lie. Yeah, there's a war going on, but it's not about guns and bombs. Liberal democracy, with one postulate on the selectivity of power, has formally won the world. There is not a single force that can be taken seriously at risk of claiming that power comes from God, not from election results. At the same time, many are doing everything they can to convince voters of the truth of one or another of modern marketing methods. What does Mr. Proper and Vladimir Putin have in common? Both have a supernatural ability to remove stains. And yet it's only in television commercials. Just as the red wine stain refuses to move away from the silk tie, the Estonian or Ukrainian also refuses to believe that they are harassing the Russians, whether in Narva or Yalta. This is not the way we find Mr. Proper at every home, and we do not believe every Russian in Russia's claims about an attack on fascism in Ukraine. When a special correspondent for Finnish public television was asked yesterday in Kiev, what the ordinary Ukrainians think about the Russians' threat to Crimea at the Russian President's press event, he replied that the Russian President has failed in general. In Finnish it sounded even better: 'Luullan, että Putin on ihan tärähtänyt. ' In all this propaganda from Russia, at least I believe that Odessa-style humour is beginning to appear. For example, yesterday the Russian President stated that the uniform worn by the so-called Crimean defenders can be freely purchased from the shop. On behalf of the Viljandi Sangarite Society, I intend to ask the Russian embassy's cultural attaché for the address of the shop where you can buy the specialsnaz equipment. I'd really like to use it in the musical next year. The sense of humor also belongs to the fascist moods of Jewish rhetorical organizations in Ukraine. A Jew and a Nazi, help God! The Reform Party will certainly support the adoption by the Riigikogu of an appropriate statement today and vote in favour of the adoption of this statement. But we advise all of our countrymen to maintain a cold nerve and peace. We're in no immediate danger right now. We support the policies of the Estonian Government, which aim to resolve this crisis positively, and we rely on the adequate behaviour of our allies. But we all have the opportunity to help the Republic of Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. Estonia is a very active Ukrainian community. There are over 20,000 Ukrainians in Estonia. This Ukrainian community is ready to provide any assistance to its homeland. Whoever wants and can get in touch with them. Anyone who goes to the store could consider putting even one Ukrainian product in a shopping cart. Every euro that reaches the Ukrainian economy is very welcome. It's a small bet, but that's what we can all do. But to my good colleagues from the Centre Party, I would like to suggest that they tell Edgar Savisaar that wiping the tie with Mister Proper does not produce any results whatsoever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U100	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Centre Party, I would like to ask for the speaking seat of Mailis Reps. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U101	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Ukraine has a rare young democracy. He stands out among many other young people and developing countries precisely because he has a very vibrant and powerful civil society. This civil society deals with all kinds of problems, from the concerns of the elderly and people with disabilities to the development of democracy and policy, which may be the most dealt with. Remembering Ukraine at the time of the previous President Yanukovych, the greatest amount of information could certainly be obtained on the advantages and disadvantages of Janukovych, precisely because dozens and dozens of organisations analysed what was happening in Ukraine. Later, efforts have been made to show that this is a rather radical movement. I have been in constant contact with Ukraine over these years and I can assure you that the professional level of these organisations is very high; universities have been involved to a number of professors. The involvement of these very different organisations in the Maidan process was very different. The whole movement in Ukraine, however, started largely because what was promised had not happened. The elections three times in a row promised the Ukrainian people, both Ukrainian and Russian, that the country's direction is the solutions to the problems associated with the European and European Union. The negotiations lasted over four years and were quite detailed. Their content may not have reached every human being. However, there was one clear goal in Ukraine: it was believed that moving to Europe would lead to a more transparent society. It was hoped for a society where corruption would not be an integral part, where it would be possible to go to a doctor or hospital, even upstairs, without having to give the orderly a significant share of their monthly salary, or where children would be able to get a place in the school next to which they live. The simple everyday issues were unsolved, and that is why people began to protest. If you ask whether most of the people in Kiev's main square really protested against Janukovych, the answer is certainly not. Everyone had a message. The message was that the hopes they had been given for seven or eight years were cut. The leaders of the Orange Revolution were not wanted back. Hence why members of the interim government are now relatively lukewarm. Just because everyone remembers that the promised democracy led to the opposite: pettyism and more oligarhe. This is why Europe, this mystical support, which we also represent, is giving hope for a major change in Ukraine. As I have already said, it is hoped that Ukraine will become more transparent and less corrupt. But today we are here primarily because a considerable part of Ukraine's territory has foreign troops. There is no doubt that this is an infringement of international law. Any debate around who these people are and what weapons they have has not confused the international community. Russia's interference in Ukraine's internal affairs is clearly condemned at the highest level. The Ukrainians themselves have clearly and repeatedly said that this is Russia's aggression against their territorial integrity. It is important to find a solution together to the issues that Ukraine is sometimes trying to resolve with us. The key is to find the keys that will help make Ukraine a united country again. It is certainly not possible to look in such a simplified way, as has been tried to show in the media war, that the eastern territories are less Ukrainian-minded than the rest of Ukraine. It should be recalled that the Russian-speaking population in Ukraine, being mysticized, has already been cut. It has now been confirmed that Ukrainian military bases have not given up, despite several ultimatisations. Those boys over there are mostly Russian. Most of them are confirmed to come from purely Russian-speaking regions, but they proudly hold the Ukrainian flag and say that they will not surrender to the troops they consider to be foreign troops. It should also indicate to the most sceptical observers that the simplified celling of Ukraine into Russian and Ukrainian is more than superficial. There is no discrepancy in Ukraine based on language, there is no discrepancy in terms of mentality or region. Of course, there is a need to give certainty to certain regions, but it cannot be said by simplifying that all people in industrial or mining areas are less intelligent and do not understand the usual language of speech. It's not like that. What are the expectations and solutions? Ukraine itself has considered three steps to be right here. The first and most important step is to improve the Constitution. The 2004 Constitution gives rise to a large number of disputes and must be supplemented. I am pleased to say that, as of yesterday, such a working group has also been put together. The Venice Commission has promised to carry out an expert analysis so that a solution will be reached here. The second step is the codified electoral law and the organisation of both parliamentary and presidential elections (in particular, the presidential and then parliamentary elections). The third very important step is to move forward with the next reforms that reform the prosecution's office and the judicial system. The fight against corruption is of course important. There is not enough time to deal with the most painful issues. We will definitely continue this debate today. An international expert group on human rights violations in Maidan that could have been committed by all parties will also help to improve the wounds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U102	Thank you very much. Please speak on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union Lauri Vahtre.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U103	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, our statement today does not change the attitude of Russia and does not force it to quietly withdraw from Crimea. No one understands such an illusion. Nevertheless, it is our duty to make an internal statement, because if we did not do so, our silence would be interpreted as tacit acceptance of the aggressor. So it is up to us today to send our message to the world and Ukraine. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U104	Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U105	What about Crimea? In particular, it is Crimea that is the issue now. We do not decide on this issue. However, as part of the international community, it is up to us to say that, in order to be able to resolve this issue in any way and find a lasting solution, it is necessary to restore the status quo, which is the situation as it was, which was emphasised by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. All parties must be heard and a solution must be sought. Otherwise, we will have a situation in which breaking the law will create a law, an offence of justice and violence in the world order. But what does Russia say about such messages? Russia is talking about this nonsense, a lie, a cynical lie that has already been repeatedly referred to here. He's talking so cynical and stupid, so excuse the expression that there's a question of whether we're mocking, taunting sane people. However, if the Russian leadership itself really believes what it is saying, let us recall Mrs Merkel's comment that President Putin seems to have lost touch with reality and we must have the feeling that Europe is living next to the Golden Hord or medieval, sultanate Turkey again. It is paradoxical, sad and regrettable that those who, in our opinion, have lost touch with reality, in turn think that we have lost touch with reality because the reality is somewhere else, where there is force and violence. What to do with people who live in another world? That's a tough question. What to do with people whose world image froze around 1949, who live in the midst of the ghosts of the Cold War, and justify what with all international imperialism and conspiracy by large corporations? I don't know what to do with people like this remote control right now. I can only say that this is a cultural problem, as the former Minister of Culture pointed out. I totally agree with him. We see the clash of civilizations that Samuel Huntington spoke of several decades ago. We saw it before him every day for 50 years in the conditions of the Soviet occupation and regrettably often we see it now in Tallinn. On one side there is liberal democracy, on the other side there is despotism, power, connections and slipping. What can I do? This question, too, remains unanswered. But history is known that only another force, fortitude, and time can help against such a power. I am not necessarily talking here about military force; the European Union also has enough economic power. But such a world has another great enemy. The worst enemy of a crazed dictator is always the same dictator himself. However, before the truth reaches him, he may force the world to make many sacrifices. Right now, I think there's still a way to prevent them. That's why we appeal to the West. After all, we are not telling all this to Russia, which does not understand the language we speak. We are talking to the West and, in fact, there are only four words in our statement: 'We said immediately. " We have been 20 or 25 years, including the activities of our refugees, for over half a century, all the time saying that there is one force to be controlled. But such a sassy wouldn't help our statement, of course. Therefore, we express ourselves in a civilised way and, you could say, even a mallet, but the content of the statement is nevertheless serious. What matters is whether the West realizes. Ukraine and Ukrainians have certainly already realised, and that is also a big deal. You can complain that Europe is old, comfortable, inert and afraid that Europe is going down. Maybe so, but maybe it's Russia that's going down. Perhaps one day the noble President Putin will disappear from his lips, just as the ancient dictator Ceausescu disappeared from his face one memorable day when his power broke. I don't think that's impossible at all. It's not our place to say anything more about it. We can only say that every state ship that sails on a crazy course will eventually go down. So maybe this message is a little bit of a message for Russia. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U106	Thank you. I would like to ask Mr Mikeri to speak on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U107	Ladies and gentlemen, Since Samuel Huntington's Clash of Civilizations appeared in the last century, in 1993, this work, which was initially an article, after becoming an essay written in the book, has also received a great deal of criticism. I think that if we look at the world in black and white and consider these political or geopolitical civilizations unchanged, we will definitely drift on the course of the apocalyptic collision. I believe and hope that in Russian society too, the forces that want to change the politics, political culture and geopolitical course of their country are strong, and I believe that these forces will one day remain on top. Unfortunately, this day is still the future. There has been much talk about the geopolitical struggle between Russia and the West over domination in the immediate vicinity of Russia. We remember that in those days when we aspired to be members of the European Union and NATO, Russia's political propaganda said a lot about NATO and the European Union trying to recruit us as agents right across Russia's borders, as if NATO and the European Union had tried to talk us softly so that we could join them. At the time, we were particularly well aware of those who tried to achieve our membership in the negotiations in these two organisations, that this was not the case. We had to meet very harsh conditions and carry out radical reforms to prove our eligibility. Even then, we did not really manage to convince all the people of the old Member States of our eligibility. A considerable number of Russian policy makers still think that the West, especially the European Union, is trying to recruit Ukraine to use it in some mysterious way against Russia. I believe that those who have worked in Kiev and elsewhere in Ukraine to conclude an association agreement with the European Union know how little they are actually expected in Europe or, at least so far, are expected. It is very clear that this is a delusion which, unfortunately, is very strongly rooted in the minds of many political thinkers and decision-makers in Russia. We recall that when the crisis in Ukraine broke out, it started with President Janukovych's decision to brake integration into the European Union. In the European Union, it was thought to be a wrong decision, but the overwhelming view was that the Ukrainian authorities were entitled to make such a decision if they so wished. The Ukrainian people themselves assessed this decision and condemned this behaviour. The majority of the Ukrainian people decided that Ukraine's course must continue to be an integration into the European Union. Ukraine's elected power, whose legitimacy was not largely questioned by the West before that, delegitiated itself by using crude violence to suppress the protests of its people. Then, after President Janukovich had left the country, the full extent of the corruption of this power became very clear. I believe that the European Union, too, has learned (or will still be) a very important lesson from this crisis. The fact that the door of the European Union is open to everyone on this continent must be credible. Our own willingness to help those who have expressed a desire for more integration with the European Union must also be much greater. I believe that the need for assistance in Ukraine is extremely urgent given the very difficult economic situation in that country. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U108	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U109	So much directly about the situation in Ukraine and the events that have caused today's sitting. In today's second additional session, we will be discussing a draft statement that does not deal with the very difficult situation in Ukraine, as well as Russia's flagrant violation of the fundamental principles of international law. I recall that Ukraine has been a member of the United Nations since 1945; it has been a member of the International Atomic Energy Agency since 1957. He was already part of the Soviet Union back then. Former so-called "Minister of Justice' of the so-called "Donetsk People's Republic'. Our statement refers to the Helsinki Final Act. We are also referring to the 1994 Budapest Memorandum, by which Ukraine committed itself to abandoning the world's third largest nuclear arsenal at that time, for which initially Russia as a successor to the Soviet Union, Great Britain and the United States, and later France and China also undertook to guarantee the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine. The fact that Russia has taken the right to overcome these obligations by referring to some steps taken by the Ukrainian authorities and to carry out aggression against a neighbouring country, to carry out an invasion either with the aim of annexing part of that country or at least to secure its political control over developments in that country, cannot be accepted by us or by the international community. We all understand how seriously such steps threaten our own security and security. The more coherent and clear the international community expresses its condemnation, it states that Russia's behaviour is unacceptable and has consequences, the faster the day when international law will be restored, and the more confident we can be that such precedents will not be used in the future to undermine our own security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U110	Thank you very much. Speaking chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U111	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Maybe I don't share high politics, but maybe it's my social circle. I have a big dog I need to walk with, so I walk my hometown three hours a day on average. In the last few weeks, I've been standing rather than moving, because I have five to ten conversations a day. They usually ask the same thing. I will mention some of the most frequently asked questions here. People have watched what is happening in Kiev, where ministries and other public institutions are occupied. They ask if this would be possible in Estonia. What would happen in Estonia if there were a bunch of South-Estonia who were not satisfied with the border agreement and tried to take hold of the Ministry of Agriculture, for example? Would this be seen as an expression of democracy? They wouldn't, these people would get beat up and be locked up in the D-terminal or somewhere else. In our country, such an occupation would be considered a disorderly one. Why, though, is it called a higher phenomenon of democracy when it happens in Ukraine? Where does this double standard come from? That's what people ask. What can I say? Have you read the Ukrainian Constitution? When I was asked, I had to say I wasn't, but later I read it. Its Article 106 or 108 discusses how the President of Ukraine might lose power. There are four options. First of all, the president dies. Secondly, the president loses the health that the chief marshal detects. Thirdly, the President will submit his resignation. Fourth, there's an impeachment. If it is not one of the four options, then it is still the President. Under the Constitution, he cannot be deprived of power otherwise, and it is up to him to confirm the Prime Minister, the Government, etc. If someone else is doing this by replacing the President, it is neither the government nor the Prime Minister's legitimacy. The governors currently appointed to Eastern Ukraine are not legitimate either. If we want a strict constitutional order here in Estonia, why do we support the gross violation of constitutional order in another country? Very often, I get hit, and they ask me, "Why are you doing this? " It is often thought that I too have taken part. They ask why the Riigikogu does not condemn the bombing of Yugoslavia, but sits quietly and watches the bombing, and everything is fine. On a fictitious pretext, Iraq was attacked. I don't care if the dictator's bad, but you can't just go out there and kill for oil. Why is there one reaction, the other one? Where does this double standard come from, and is it normal? I can't answer that. At the end of this month, a referendum will take place in Crimea. I cannot imagine which questions will be put to the referendum, but it is already being baptized into an illegal process. Scotland is holding, I don't even know, this year or next year, an analogous referendum. He intends to withdraw from Britain and form a separate country. The same process takes place in a Spanish province. I am asked why what is allowed in one corner of Europe is forbidden in another. You try answering. I had especially many conversations on the evening of February 21st and the next day. Yanukovych sat at the table with the opposition, with the German, French and Polish foreign ministers sitting next to him and signing the terms of his removal. But you didn't need a peaceful eviction, and it went off. Why is it being watched and accused of everything of the man whom I personally, to say the least, do not love, but who still gave up power? Why aggression? Why was it necessary to adopt the language law that excited Eastern Ukraine and Crimea? Who needed it and where did Europe look? Why are we hypocritical about these matters? I've got a whole album full of pictures of downtown Kiev I've been collecting for the last few months. In these pictures, men walk with a swastika and a stylised swastika (they are Nachtigall and UNA-UNSO troops). The portraits of Bandera are filled with Kiev. The BBC interviewed a boy who said, "We stand up for a clean nation, there should be only Ukrainians here. ' Not exactly like Hitler's principle, but kind of the same. Why do we agree that these neo-Nazis can also fight for democracy? By the way, they're now being deployed on a massive basis in the militia, forming special forces. I have a very long list here. In Poland, there are places such as Legnica, Huta Pieniacka, Kraków, Hel and others. These are the cities where the memorials stand for the people killed by the banderans. The most powerful is Wroclaw, where 2,000 capsules of soil have been delivered from places where these men massacred the Poles. These men, this is the right-wing sector, not the party, but the group. These are the ones who changed the situation in the country after 21 February. I still have a lot of unanswered questions, but I don't have much time. I support the title of this statement. I and the people with whom I have spoken support the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine, but we do not support the hypocrisy that some of us are trying to deal with in Ukraine. At first, there will be a conflict and then it will be resolved. You can't do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U112	Thank you. Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U113	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, It seems that I must first come to the assistance of the previous speaker leaving the hall in his public education work, because it seems to me that a member of the Riigikogu obviously does not know how to answer the questions of voters or does not want to know how to answer them. At least two previous speakers highlighted very clearly what is behind the escalation of Ukraine's events. This really took place during the Vilnius Summit, when the President made a very unexpected turn in relation to his promises to date. What was promised did not happen, and in such a situation, democratic legitimacy is indeed being called into question. If I were to look for an analogy to this, it could be something like this, that some of the top leaders of the Estonian state will at one point inform the people that our orientation is now the Commonwealth of Independent States and we will move out of Europe. This, too, is likely to be followed by a very heated reaction from the people. It is far from right to compare the Scottish referendum and other democratic procedures in Europe with the events in Crimea, as they certainly do not take place during the presence of a foreign military. Now let's get to the point. When we had a foreign policy debate last week, I have already stressed one parliamentary dimension. This is linked to the fact that the Ukrainian Verkhovna Rada has taken a central role in the current process. He has positively surprised and assumed responsibility for all further processes. His decisions are undoubtedly legitimate. However, I want to talk today about the very practical things that we can do, what we can do as Parliament. Through the parliamentary groups and the international delegations to which we belong, we have plenty and plenty of scope for this. After all, events will probably remain topical for a while. First of all, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has already pointed out that the Russian Federation Council has approved the use of Russian troops in Ukraine, he has essentially approved the flagrant violation of international law, aggression and occupation. I do not understand how, in this case, the members of the Federation Council can be a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, for example. The least that should be done is to suspend their mandate until that decision has been amended. So far, when this issue has been raised, there has been one argument against the fact that Members are not responsible, they cannot take the blame for what national governments have done. At the moment, however, this is a Parliament that has basically sanctioned aggression. Remember this in all possible cases when we communicate with people or with our partners. The membership of such a parliament in democratic world associations is more than odd. Now I'm talking about sanctions. If the sanctions of the European Union are limited to suspending the visa process, suspending the negotiations on the visa facilitation agreement, it is still exceptionally soft and nothing will happen. Let us also talk about economic sanctions, let us talk about visa bans as sanctions. I believe that these same members of the Federation Council should, after such a decision, be essentially subject to such a ban. In addition, the Magnitski list as a sanction against Russia, which is a matter of very long history. Believe me, it's immensely effective. That's also... I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U114	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U115	... reasonable recall and convince the partners that such things must be implemented until this aggression ends. We definitely need to talk about arms transfers from the countries of the European Union to Russia. Stopping them is one possible sanction. The first quick analysis has already been done by Kaarel Kaas and Tomas Jermalavicus of the International Centre for Defence Studies. This concerns France and Germany in particular. We can't be polite here. We need to tell our partners how we feel about this at every opportunity. We must do this if we are to communicate either with ambassadors or with colleagues from other countries within the framework of parliamentary external relations. This is an extremely acute issue in the light of these events, which should be highlighted. Finally, I would like to highlight the role of Mailis Reps as rapporteur for the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe monitoring committee in Ukraine. Our Parliament has the advantage of having a very competent person on these issues for a very long time. I would like this to continue, because then our analyses will be reliable and competent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U116	Thank you very much. I'm asking for a speech chair at Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U117	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, Today everyone is talking about Ukraine, which is very clear and logical. However, I want to talk about us because, in the light of the events in Ukraine, we are also important and important in nature, and also important and important are the same problems within the Estonian state that have not disappeared in the context of Ukraine. As many as there are people, there are different opinions. We know that we want to be a normal society, and in a normal society everyone has the right to freedom of expression. Sadly, when someone says something somewhere, at the moment when we are discussing some very important and substantive problem, there are always people who, under the conditions of freedom of expression, try to use someone's words to satisfy their internal political ambitions. In my opinion, this means that politicians who at this moment play the role of party soldier and the party hijack the opinion of the people, because all people in Estonia have exactly the same rights after all. I hope we have learned something from the events in Ukraine. We quite confidently hope that this crisis in Ukraine will be resolved. We are talking about the territorial integrity of Ukraine; it cannot be called into question; it must be preserved. Ten years ago, there was a crisis in the Strait of Kerch. Then we could observe from the news how Russian and Ukrainian troops took mutual positions. I don't know how many of you noticed that they were preparing full battle stations at that time. I noticed. After that, I began to tell people in the inner circle that another serious conflict involving the military could occur between Ukraine and Russia. I said that the same scenario is possible against Estonia. A lot of you people in this room have asked me to go to the doctor and have your pills checked out. Many people in this room have said to me today: "Aivar, we were wrong about you, you don't need a pill. You were right. ' That is why I want to tell you, honourable politicians, once again that Estonia's independence is important to the people of Estonia. We all have historical memories. But the historical memory is obscured by the fact that history is written by the winners. Very many times we haven't been on the side of our winners. Very many times we have been forced to admit that one truth or another, which is not acceptable to us, is supreme because it is the truth of the winners. In this situation here in this Chamber, to name the specific names who did it or who did it, you honourable politicians, are not right. It is not because, at that moment, you are distancing yourself to a people who is concerned, thinks and remembers history, who wants Estonia to be an independent, territorially complete place and a place to live for all nations. Good people of Estonia who are listening to me live now! The only way to ensure all this is to have an armed nation. Estonia has given itself the legal right to arm and train its people in military terms. It's the only form of deterrence these days. Only brave, strong and resolute people will not be dared to attack. Resolute people are not encouraged to attack. A minute more, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U118	One more minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U119	That is why I once again call upon you, the good people of Estonia! You know how to protect your country. For this purpose, we have organisations to which you can sign an application. This must be done precisely because an armed nation is the only key that keeps Estonia independent. All the other political speculations, even in this Chamber, are the day before yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U120	Thank you. Please, Juku-Kalle Raid!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U121	I'll tell my dad so much, don't just drop into a pill, even though you have a tendency to scream. Of course you can take a sedative. Ladies and gentlemen, We know that the situation in Ukraine is scary, to say the least. However, one thing could surely be cut in the skull: this is a terrible situation not only for local countries but also for all other European countries, not only for Russia's neighbouring countries. We must chop ourselves into the skull that Russia has spit constantly, spit sooner and now and spit in the future on all kinds of human rights, international practices, the freedom of neighbouring countries and also on the freedoms of its own citizens, everything that peaceful people seem to understand and what we in Europe think is more or less normal. It reminds us over and over again that Comrade Putin, a robot with a KGB bloodstream, claims he's defending the rights of the Russians. He really protects them everywhere, anywhere, but certainly not in Russia. We've asked ourselves many times what we can do. It is true that it is difficult; Estonia does not attack Russia. But having spoken to the Ukrainians several times, the last time I spoke to the former winner and musician of Eurovision, Ruslana, I am absolutely certain that any statement such as the one we are signing today is extremely important to this people. This is symbolically important, because they need to know that we are not just talking about pure empathy and sympathy for the Ukrainian people, but we are also talking about this as a threat to all of us in Europe. I think that such specific statements will certainly give the Ukrainians the courage and the knowledge that we are them and that we are taking into account the dangers arising from Russia. I still call on the European Union, the Member States of the European Union, to initiate immediate sanctions against Russia, because we are losing time not every passing day, but within an hour. First of all, I call for any cooperation with Russia to be suspended. This is, in particular, a signal to Germany and France that the supply of weapons to the aggressor must be stopped. It is quite insane to negotiate with a country which, at the same time, is supplied with weapons. I call for it to be understood that Russia cannot be spoken in a language understood by ordinary people, in a normal and cultural way, because the Russian authorities have such a conversation as they say themselves, absolutely do Lampochki, or whatever. I call for the property of at least all the States Duma members who gave Putin a mandate for military intervention in Ukraine to be frozen. Perhaps it would be appropriate to review all trade relations with Russia. A signal must be sent to Russia that he has crossed the border far and wide. We know Russia can spread its filth anywhere. Let us take the example of Estonia. Good middle party! Say hello to your own personal Putin Edolf, who is about as stupid as Russia's national propaganda. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! At least on the basis of today's statement, we can see that the majority of Parliament is with the Ukrainians. I don't care about Stalnukhin or any other people! This shows that there is hope not only for Ukraine, but also for Europe and for ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U122	Thank you. Please, Tõnis Kõiv!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U123	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Listeners! One is probably clear to everyone: in Ukraine, a completely new situation has arisen since the entry of the Russian army into Crimea. This is a dangerous situation that has a wider impact on the world, on Europe and, of course, on us here in Estonia. Russia is using a tried and tested scheme for military invasion of Ukraine: it is necessary to protect the Russians from the persecution of another country or from the actions of so-called nationalists, extremists, who are acting because of the weakness of the power of that other country. In advance, or even at the same time, Russian passports will be issued in a simplified way, so that there will be more of those to be protected. Similarly, it took place in Georgia a few years ago, and in less volume it has also taken place in other countries. Today we can say that, fortunately, international pressure on Russia has been so strong that a direct military conflict between Russian and Ukrainian soldiers has been prevented, but tensions are increasing. The units of the Russian army have surrounded the Ukrainian military units, talking about water and electricity being cut off. The Russians probably hope that the proud Ukrainian people, the proud Ukrainian soldiers will surrender. I think that is a very naive hope. I agree that there is no immediate threat to Estonia at the moment. However, the indirect risk is greater than ever. If the President of Russia repeats his right to defend the interests of the Russians in any country in a way he chooses, then no country with a Russian minority will be safe anymore. The security of the Estonian state is based not only on our own defence capabilities, but also on the membership of NATO and the European Union of the Defence League, which my colleague Aivar Riisalu invited everyone to join here. Security based on allied relations requires, among other things, the ability to communicate closely with allies in an emergency situation at a very different level. A good example is our Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Defence, who has spoken with the closest allies, harmonised views and exchanged views. But that's what we'd expect from all of us. I believe that a commitment should be made to dealing with colleagues in the parliaments of the Allied States, to harmonising positions, to reaching a common opinion. If we consider France and Germany's reactions to be too mild, then we should probably talk to them, if necessary, go to Paris or Berlin to meet our colleagues, exchange views, listen to them and convince them. If the performance in the Estonian media is very useful to win our voter's heart, then the state would rather benefit from the publication of an article in Le Monde or Frankfurter Allgemaine Zeitung. They are read by those people who should influence the politicians from whom we expect to act more resolutely than today, so that the security of the Estonian state is even better ensured. The main player in NATO is the United States, where, to be acknowledged, there are also very different moods. Last week, there was talk and has been an increasingly loud talk in the past about how this country must resolutely cut its defence expenditure, including the unilateral withdrawal of nuclear weapons from Europe. This week, it was a pleasure to hear that our president, Toomas Hendrik Ilves, had a phone conversation with Vice President Joe Biden of the United States. There was an exchange of views and harmonisation. In the same way, we would like to hear about contacts with members of the Congress and the Senate responsible for foreign affairs. Russia's reasons for entering Ukraine with the army give reason to conclude that we cannot rule out a similar situation either. Therefore, at Parliament's level, we should practice the procedures that will then help us: close communication with our allies, shaping common positions, breaking through information noise, etc. We should practice what we need in a crisis situation. I hope that all those who spoke recently about cutting Estonia's defence spending will now be ashamed of their eyes. Estonia will continue to contribute 2% of GDP to its defence capabilities. You can count on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U124	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. The debate on a key national issue has been exhausted and the sitting has also been closed. Let me remind you that the second additional sitting starts at 4 p.m. Closure of the sitting at 2.29 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U125	Hello, honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the second additional sitting on 5 March. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Looks like no one wants to hand over one or the other. I don't have any messages for you. Please, let's do the presence check! 73 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 28. Pursuant to § 55 (1) of the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the agenda for the additional sitting must be approved at the beginning of the session. I shall put to the vote the agenda for the second additional sitting on 5 March. Please vote! 74 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U126	The first reading of the Riigikogu's application to support the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine, submitted by 63 members of the Riigikogu, begins at 608. But before I call my colleague Marko Mihkelson on the floor, I will tell you how we will deal with this draft statement. First of all, there is a presentation by a representative of the drafters, which lasts up to 20 minutes. A presentation by the representative of the commission will follow, which will also last for up to 20 minutes. May I have your attention, please? A member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to each of the rapporteurs. Representatives of the political groups may take the floor during the negotiations. The amendments will be examined and the final vote will follow. I would ask Marko Mihkelson, Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu, to speak with you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U127	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The alarming events in Ukraine cannot leave anyone indifferent in Estonia. The fact that our neighbouring country has once again used military force to achieve its objectives is extremely worrying. We must not, under any circumstances, stand by, because the future of Europe depends on the fate of Ukraine. The Riigikogu does not often make foreign policy statements. This is not our practice. In this Chamber, we last dealt with a foreign policy statement in August 2008 when Russia invaded Georgia. If then Moscow was to stop NATO enlargement, then now Russia does not want to see Ukraine as a country that is truly independent and embracing European values. The Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu has been very careful in recent months and has followed events in Ukraine reactively. At the end of January, after the first encounters in Kiev, the Commission made a statement that violence would immediately be stopped, we wanted Ukraine's European aspirations to be fully supported. I myself went to Kiev at the end of January to better understand the subcurrents of events. Members of the Riigikogu's foreign delegations have been communicating with partners in the European Union and NATO in recent weeks on Ukraine. In particular, I would like to highlight our colleague, Mailis Reps, who has been remarkably active as the Ukrainian rapporteur for the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft statement initiated by 63 members of the Riigikogu today is an immediate response to the military aggression of the Russian Federation in Ukraine and an appeal to the international community to respond more resolutely to Russia's actions in violating Ukrainian sovereignty and threatening territorial integrity. We demand the immediate departure of the Russian occupation forces from Ukraine's territory and the implementation of the bilateral military base agreement. He has therefore supported actions and policies which undermine the territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence of Ukraine, and further undermine the territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence of Ukraine. In addition, passports of the Russian Federation have been distributed to the people of Crimea on an accelerated basis, just as they did before the aggression against Georgia in 2008 in Abkhazia and South Ossetia. Russia has reacted painfully to the events in Kiev, Ukraine's capital, which forced President Viktor Yanukovych, who was responsible for the deaths of dozens of people, to flee the country and seek refuge from the Russian Federation. The Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine removed the former President from office and appointed Mr. Oleksandr Turchynov, President of the Supreme Rada, as interim president, and appointed a new temporary government office, headed by Prime Minister Arseni Yatsenjuk. A large-scale and literally hysterical campaign of propaganda has been launched in the Russian media to question the legitimacy of the new Ukrainian authorities. In the statement of the Riigikogu, we stress that the Supreme Rada is the elected authority of the people and therefore the most legitimate authority. It was only yesterday that Russian President Vladimir Putin called what happened in Ukraine an armed coup, and the Russian media did not save words, depicting the Ukrainians who crave freedom as fascists. At the same time, propaganda and intervention policies are often faced with obvious lies. However, this is very dangerous because mass manipulation can lead to unpredictable consequences. Also just yesterday news came that one of the Russian renowned historians Professor Zubov was fired from the Moscow Institute of International Relations because he dared to compare the Russian attack on Ukraine with Hitler's activities in Austria in 1938. Colleagues! The President of the Russian Federation was authorised to transfer Russian armed forces to Ukrainian territory at an extraordinary meeting of the Russian Federation Council on 1 March 2014. The international community has clearly condemned this by reminding Russia of its commitment to honour the Budapest Memorandum, signed on 5 December 1994, with which the Russian Federation, the United States of America and Great Britain, and France and China, which later joined the Memorandum, did not commit themselves to using force against the non-nuclear Ukraine and not to endanger its territorial integrity. POB: Sevastopol (Donetsk oblast) In its statement of 3 March, the G7 Association of the world's leading industrialised nations condemned Russia's behaviour, which the G7 countries consider to be a clear violation of Ukrainian sovereignty. The statement was also signed by the Presidents of the European Commission and the European Council. The United States Foreign Minister, John Kerry, called Russia's activities on Ukrainian territory an invasion and occupation. He demanded the immediate departure of the Russian forces, and he also warned the Russian President about the imposition of sanctions, including the freezing of assets. The US announced the suspension of trade and investment negotiations and defence cooperation with Russia. The foreign ministers of the European Union meeting on 3 March condemned Russia's aggression in Ukraine, as well as the decision of the Russian Federation Council to use armed forces in Ukraine's territory. The statement warned Russia about the deterioration of relations. The European Union decided to suspend negotiations with Russia on visa issues and a new framework agreement. In the statement of the Riigikogu, we stress the need to send international observation missions to Ukraine without delay in order to fix what is involved in Russia's activities, particularly in Crimea and Eastern Ukraine. On 3 March, the Chairman of the OSCE, Switzerland, called for action and preparations to be made for the OSCE observation mission to Ukraine. As we have heard today from Foreign Minister Urmas Paet, the activities of this mission in Crimea are very clearly blocked. The changing situation in just one weekend makes us wonder how quickly, for example, the European Union or the international community can respond to events in general. The European Union observation mission could well become a reality within six months. This is too long in a rapidly changing world. Shouldn't the European Union have its own Rapid Response Team to intervene as observers in situations like this? Ladies and gentlemen, The future of Ukraine depends largely on it itself, and the key issue is ensuring its unity, reform and reduction of corruption. In our statement, we therefore call on the Member States of the European Union to support Ukraine in making the necessary reforms for society and economic development. Estonia considers it necessary for the association agreement not signed at the European Union summit in Vilnius to be concluded as soon as possible, and it is also vital to provide economic assistance to Ukraine as soon as possible. Today, we do not know how the intense confrontation between Ukraine and Russia will end, but it is certain that the stronger the international pressure on Russia, the more opportunities there are to prevent the outbreak of full-scale warfare and to restore political dialogue. The Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu will monitor the situation and will continue to provide all-round assistance to Ukraine within its possibilities. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on you all to support the draft statement and thus express your clear attitude towards defending Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U128	Thank you very much, Mr Mihkelson. Let's get to the questions. Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U129	Thank you. Dear waitress, Less than an hour ago, an article was published on the Postimees website entitled 'Paet: Maidani snipers could have ordered someone from the new Ukrainian coalition'. You mentioned that shooting in your speech. Our Foreign Minister (the recording of this conversation exists) claims that it is very disturbing that the new coalition does not want to investigate exactly what happened, and the growing understanding is that behind the snipers was not Janukovych, but someone from the new coalition. Would you mind commenting on this material? Considering that it's going to be like this, that one false information after another starts to fall away, maybe it would be wise not to rush? Perhaps it would be wise to find out what is really going on in Ukraine? If you don't believe in burning synagogues and killing Jews, then let's start with that and move on.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U130	Thank you for that question. This is really very topical news. I've been listening to the recording of this wired call. You failed to mention, Mr. Stalnukhin, that this is a wired call. This isn't the first time YouTube's ever made that kind of recording. If my memory isn't fooled, it's the third kind of Western diplomat call recorded. I have no doubt that this is an eavesdropping call from the Russian special services. The first such speeches were published in YouTube last summer. Shortly after Lithuania had taken over the Presidency of the European Union, Youtube's speeches suddenly appeared, where Lithuanian diplomats spoke to each other about Eastern Partnership policy. The second time, as you know, an eavesdropping call from the Russian special services appeared before everyone in Youtube at the beginning of February. In this speech, diplomats from the United States spoke among themselves about the situation in Ukraine. There is now a third such case, i.e. the eavesdropped speech by our Foreign Minister and the head of the European External Action Service. I think we need to think very seriously about what this means and at what time we are living, whether it is a cold war or something else that Russia is now imposing on the world, above all on the Western world. As far as the content of the speech is concerned, if you ask this question, you will probably know that this speech took place after the visit of Foreign Minister Paet to Kiev, Ukraine. In his speech, he described the information that he was able to obtain during that one day while he was in Kiev. At the end of January, I too went to Kiev to better understand what was really going on, what was going on in Maidan, what was going on on on the other side, what some people thought and what others thought. Similarly, I heard very different opinions. As I understand it, in his phone conversation with Baroness Ashton, Minister Paet spoke precisely about what she heard in Kiev. Minister Paet did not express, as I understand it, his own views. I can tell you that on the basis of the information that international analysts have, and on the basis of the photos that show those snipers shooting both sides of the city centre of Kiev, the weapons used are likely to relate primarily to the forces controlled by the Ukrainian authorities. I think that it is undoubtedly very important for the Ukrainian Government and the authorities to carry out a comprehensive investigation. But it is extremely important to consider how such information can leak at all. At all, in the future, we need to think more about what protected information is about diplomatic relations, as we are used to it in our relations with our Western partners.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U131	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U132	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! I have almost the same question as Stalnukhin, but I want to be more specific. Do not the structures of the European Union also see the possibility of examining it independently and independently? I'm talking about events in Kiev. Does anyone have to be responsible for that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U133	Thank you. I think that, above all, the Ukrainian authorities are interested in investigating as closely as possible the events that took place in the centre of Kiev when dozens of people were killed in sniper fire. They are interested that everyone behind these events will be held accountable. As far as I know, the Ukrainian authorities have declared the former President Yanukovych internationally wanted. It was in his power to stop these events, not to give orders for what was done in the center of Kiev. In my opinion, Russian President Putin also pointed out at the press conference in Moscow yesterday that it was as if he had recommended that Janukovych not use force against its citizens. Yanukovych hadn't listened to him, and what happened happened.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U134	Please, Mr Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U135	Dear waitress, I also read one of the news and I ask you to comment on it. Its source is the United States embassy in Moscow. The Embassy announces that the Acting President of Ukraine has decided not to sign the Act on the Prohibition of the Use of Regional Languages adopted in the High Level. At least on the basis of this news, the United States embassy welcomes this decision. Can you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U136	You know, I don't need to read the website of the United States embassy to find out such news. The news that the President has vetoed the decision that Parliament had taken had already been communicated earlier by the Ukrainian public news channels. I think the decision that Turchynov made is absolutely right.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U137	Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U138	Thank you, Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu. Dear waitress, can you comment on my data? As far as I know, an international expert group has been set up, composed of experts from the European Union and several other organisations that are quite recognised. The aim of this group is to study the events of Maidan at the highest international level from November to today. Do you have the same information?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U139	Yeah, I have the same information.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U140	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U141	Thank you, Madam President. Good colleague! I have no doubt whatsoever that Ukraine deserves both sovereignty and territorial integrity, but the situation is constantly changing, and that new circumstances are always coming to light. That statement of support we're gonna make, but it's and it's gonna stay, it's gonna leave a trail. Has Parliament in another European country made the same statement, or are we running ahead of others? If others have not made such a statement, is it not a situation where we are thrown into ambursure and others see what happens to us?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U142	Thank you for your question. Making political statements is not a sporting competition, nor is it between countries. The Riigikogu is not the first to make a statement on this. Our southern neighbours, Lithuania and Latvia in particular, have also been very active in recent weeks in taking parliamentary positions. The Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu, as I mentioned in its report, also presented its position on 30 January in connection with the violent confrontation that took place at the end of January in the centre of Kiev in Maidan. We could imagine a situation where we have a critical situation in Estonia. I believe that then we would expect support from very different levels, both governments and parliaments. I think that the statement of support that the Riigikogu is adopting today is a piece of this international pressure which is precisely aimed at ensuring peace in Ukraine and supporting the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U143	Please, Mr Tõnis Kõiv!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U144	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, The information war is on full tours. I read in the Russian news this morning that the Yanukovych residence has found documents suggesting that Russian snipers were the ones who committed crimes on Maidan. In the light of all of this, I would like to ask a question which, of course, I know the answer to. Are we in the Riigikogu accepting a statement in support of Maidan or, nevertheless, in support of Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U145	Thank you. On the basis of the first part of your question, we must mention Russia's current activities in Crimea, where militias are operating, who have bought their uniforms from a shop somewhere. If I am not mistaken, Mr Rein Lang wanted to know where the store was. I'd be just as interested in knowing where that special unit outfit is sold. It's not even a question of dress. We know very well what weaponry and its components are. The most important thing, however, is that these people themselves have stated directly in their answers to journalists that they are Russian soldiers from Russia. But that's it. Today, the Riigikogu naturally discusses the situation in Ukraine as a whole. It is in our interests to have an independent and territorially comprehensive Ukraine. That's why we're making our statement today.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U146	Please, Mr Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U147	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! One news of the last few hours is Mr Barroso's announcement that the European Union is ready to support Ukraine with EUR 11 billion. Are you familiar with this news and can you comment on it in any way?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U148	Thank you. All the questions have come from the news in the last few hours. This shows once again how dynamic the situation is changing. Like I said, we don't know how it all ends yet. That is why our statement of support is also very important at the moment. But surely the messages that come from both the United States and, as you referred to, the European Union, are encouraging to the current Ukrainian Government, which is facing a very difficult economic situation. I think that the economic disaster in Ukraine is not in the interests of any other country, even Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U149	Please, my colleague, Urbo Vaarmann!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U150	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I'm still gonna go over it. My colleague specifically asked whether a parliament of a European country that has already expressed its support for Ukraine has been known today. He was referring specifically to Parliaments.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U151	Thank you. As I mentioned, the Lithuanian and Latvian Parliaments have made statements on several occasions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U152	Please, Mr Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U153	Thank you. There have been questions in this Chamber today that have had the desire that Estonia, as a small country, should wait a little while longer and maybe peek at the bush, until others, bigger and better, have expressed their support for Ukraine. How do you feel, years ago, when Estonia was on the verge of regaining independence, did Iceland also have politicians who suggested that we wait a bit and not support Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U154	Thank you for that question. Naturally, small countries, and especially countries like Estonia, have a fairly important role to play in the events that are currently taking place in Ukraine. Our role is to actively support Ukraine's efforts to be an independent and free country. I think we need to take the lead in the many debates that take place in the European Union and, for example, in the North Atlantic Council. I can confirm that Estonia has actively submitted its proposals. I believe that the last few days' meetings at the level of the European Union and NATO have taken place in many respects because we have been active together with countries that think the same way. However, I would like to draw attention to another very important aspect of why I think it is important for us to stand up for Ukraine, for its sovereignty and for its territorial integrity. Let us recall the situation in August 1991. Yes, a very important decision was made in this Chamber on 20 August 1991 that Estonia's national independence would be restored. However, I think it was also very important that this step, which took place a few days later in Kiev, declared Ukraine an independent state. This was a very important signal that showed the international community that the Soviet Union is falling apart and it is time to recognise those countries that want to become independent or restore their independence. In a sense, Estonia has a moral obligation to support it now because of the step that Ukraine took in the early 1990s. I think that the number of signatures already on the draft statement of the Riigikogu shows how serious colleagues take such a statement.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U155	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Mihkelson. I ask for a presentation by Enn Frontland, Vice Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Speaker's Committee!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U156	Ladies and gentlemen, Ukraine's issues have been the focus of the Committee on Foreign Affairs for years. That's why I'm using the time I've been given for a more panoramic review. After all, Ukraine's problems are largely linked to the exceptionally complex history of this country and its people. Even if the events of the Kiev-Russian state and the events that followed were not remembered at length, the history of the last century is enough to prove how much pain, loss and pain the Ukrainians have suffered and suffered. The Ukrainian People's Republic was already tried to be established in 1917. The German and then Soviet occupation and the Soviet-Polish war lost this opportunity and Ukraine was divided between Soviet Russia and Poland. In 1939 the Red Army occupied the then Polish territory of Ukraine, and so the Soviet Union of Ukraine came into existence. During the war, Germany again occupied Ukraine, but not for long. Soviet troops were successful there too, and Ukraine's membership of the Soviet Union was restored. Along with the collapse of this union, Ukraine was able to become independent, which was used by the people on 24 August 1991. The recent history of Crimea is somewhat more colourful and dramatic: the Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic of Crimea, composed of the Russian NFSV in the 20s of the last century, and today's state of de jure being part of Ukraine, but the de facto situation has recently been a problem. Many still remember how actively we dealt with Ukraine's problems in the days of the Orange Revolution. Nearly half of the members of the Riigikogu went to Kiev at the time and communicated with demonstrators in Maidan. Partly due to international pressure, the Supreme Court of Ukraine annulled the preliminary results of the presidential election, on the basis of which Viktor Yanukovych was declared winner. This gave Viktor Yushchenko the opportunity to achieve considerable superiority and the status of Head of State in the re-vote. Ukraine has embarked on reforms that brought this country and its people closer to the European Union. By 2010, the economic crisis had done its job, and the presidential elections were won by Janukovych. Everyone is more or less familiar with the events and problems of his reign, but above all the changes in the political course that resulted from the statements made by the European Union in the run-up to the Vilnius Summit. A lot of people didn't like the change of course. In addition, the capacity was accused of corruption and of curtailing media freedom and other freedoms. It brought thousands of people back to Maidan. The events that killed a hundred people left no one indifferent. The use of excessive power, fixed by dozens of cameras, proved to the world that Ukraine is on the brink of civil war, which, together with the economic downturn, is a threat to the state's survival. Immediately after the signing of the agreements with the opposition representatives on 21 February, which were recognised and recognised by the Foreign Ministers of the three European Union Member States, President Janukovych fled to Russia. This led to the decision of the Ukrainian Supreme Council to remove the current Head of State from office. The President of the Supreme Radade, Oleksandr Turchynov, was appointed a new president and a new cabinet was appointed. Russia responded quickly and actively to the events and began to act, including by engaging in military activities, in violation of Ukrainian sovereignty and threatening the territorial integrity of the country. The addition of Russian armed forces to military bases in Crimea violated the bilateral agreement on the presence of Russian military bases in Ukraine already concluded between two neighbouring countries in 1997 and extended 13 years later. We certainly also consider the Budapest Memorandum, signed in 1994, with which the Russian Federation, the United States and Great Britain, as well as the commitments of France and China, which later joined the Memorandum, do not use force against Ukraine that has renounced nuclear weapons, and it is very important not to jeopardise Ukraine's territorial integrity. Many countries in the world, international organisations and top politicians responded strongly to Russia's activities over several days. To this day, Russia has not officially approved action by any country in the world, not even by those who might be the first to remember. In our statement, which we dealt with in the Committee on Foreign Affairs at several brief meetings, we stress the Riigikogu's concern about events in Ukraine and express our attitude towards them. We deplore Russia's actions which, in the eyes of the world's public, violate international law and a number of agreements between the two neighbouring countries. We are of the opinion that, in addition to rapid economic assistance, the European Union should contribute to democratic, economic and social reforms and take steps towards an association and free trade agreement of which the new government office in Ukraine is vitally interested. Understandably, we consider it necessary to send observation missions to Ukraine, including Crimea, which would provide an opportunity to address the disputed issues and hopefully resolve them in the course of political dialogue. The task is complicated because Russia does not recognise the legitimacy of the current Ukrainian authorities, still considering Viktor Janukovych as the Head of State of Ukraine. On the Ukrainian side, however, it is difficult, if not impossible, to accept Moscow's view that the negotiations should be based on the agreements signed on 21 February, which, in Kiev's vision, lost their legitimacy with the escape of President Janukovych from Ukraine and the appointment of a temporary Head of State. However, opening negotiations is the only internationally acceptable solution. There are plenty of diplomats in the world who have been able to handle difficult tasks. Easiest tasks in diplomacy are rare, and there is no point in talking about them. The Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu unanimously recommends that the Riigikogu adopt the statement 'in support of Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity' as a statement. The statement has been drawn up on the basis of the possibility that relations between Russia and Ukraine will change in the near future and hopefully in the direction of an improvement, not an increase in tensions. I am now specifically talking about the progress of the procedure in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. We discussed events in Ukraine at our extraordinary meeting on 3 March. Members of the Riigikogu who participated in the meeting of the committee decided to initiate a draft of the Riigikogu statement 'in support of Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity'. The members of the committee decided to prepare the preliminary text of the draft statement and submit it to the Riigikogu proceedings on behalf of one fifth of the members of the Riigikogu in accordance with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act. On the basis of the decision of subsections 13 and 153 of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act and the decision of the Riigikogu Foreign Affairs Committee on 3 March, the Commission proposed to the Bureau that an additional meeting of the Riigikogu be convened at 12 noon on 5 March and that the discussion of the situation in Ukraine as a matter of major importance on the agenda of the Riigikogu. The Committee on Foreign Affairs also proposed to convene an additional session of the Riigikogu on 5 March at 4 p.m., on the agenda of which the first reading of the draft of the Riigikogu statement 'in support of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine' initiated by the members of the Riigikogu pursuant to § 154 of the Riigikogu Act would be on the agenda. On 4 March, the Foreign Affairs Committee received information from representatives of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior about the events in Ukraine and discussed the text of the preliminary draft statement. The text containing the additions and amendments of the members of the committee who were present at the meeting was forwarded to the members of the Riigikogu, offering them the opportunity to participate in the initiation of the draft. At its extraordinary session on 5 March, the Commission discussed the draft statement "in support of Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity' initiated by 63 members of the Riigikogu. No amendments had been tabled. A linguistic correction has been made in the fifth paragraph of the original text. At its extraordinary meeting today, the Commission decided to approve the text and explanatory memorandum of draft 608 at first reading. This was done by consensus. The Commission proposes to put the draft to the final vote at the next session of the Riigikogu on 5 March, i.e. today after the first reading. This decision also came about by consensus. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U157	Thank you very much, Mr Enn Frontland. There are no questions for you. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? They do. Let's get started. Mr Marianne Mikko as representative of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U158	Ladies and gentlemen, From time to time, there's no need to make too many words. That's what it is today. Today is the day when we can proudly be members of the Riigikogu and honestly look our voters in the eye. We are adopting a statement to defend Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity. 17 Social Democrats have signed the application, two of them digitally, because they are not currently in Estonia. Similarly, representatives of all political parties, as well as Members who do not belong to any political party, have been put into their hands. Such joint breathing is a very touching sign of solidarity, but also a signal to Ukraine and Europe that the elected members of the parliament of the Estonian people attach importance to sovereignty and democracy. However, this is also a sign that Estonia is in the habit of spotting and reacting to injustice at a difficult moment. We'll counterattack the aggressor with our statement. Things have to be called the right names. When international law has been raped, our message is specific: Russia, stop! There is no United Nations country that would not be subject to international agreements and should not abide by them. It must also be said that gas and oil deposits do not, to any extent, confer the right to use military force without imposing sanctions. The hope that the punishment earned will not come is the consolation of the fools. Today is the day when our Parliament is acting like a mature democracy. We defend Ukraine's sovereignty as if it were our own independence. This does not mean, however, that everything that is happening in Ukraine will earn our full approval. All of us, 101 members of the Riigikogu, must inform the members of the Supreme Rada, the decision-makers in Ukraine that we do not agree with the corruption that is widespread in Ukraine. It was corruption in the broadest sense that dissatisfaction brought many Ukrainians to Maidan in Kiev. Therefore, it is the task of our political parties to explain to their sister parties in Ukraine what it means to have fair governance, which in the case of Estonia has been highlighted positively in the world. Today, however, we members of the Riigikogu have another mission. We must send a message to the European Union: the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission. We must remind all the institutions of the European Union that the Eastern Partnership is not a word of speech, its ultimate objective is not vague European integration. The message from Estonia is that every European country that meets the three Copenhagen criteria must have the right to become a member of the European Union. Therefore, if Ukraine is a democratic rule of law with a free market, the European Union has no right to claim that Ukraine cannot, for some reason, be accepted into the European Union. This, in turn, means that Ukraine, just as Estonia had to do ten years ago, must make an effort for life to become a Member State of the European Union. Here we are, members of the Estonian Riigikogu, who we can claim that yes, it is possible. So, dear Ukrainians, we expect you to be a member of the European Union and we stand by Ukraine being taken as a Member State of the European Union if the three Copenhagen criteria are fully met. The door's open. We're waiting for you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U159	Thank you very much, Mr Mikko. I would like to ask my colleague, Mart Nuti, as a representative of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Alliance. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U160	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Fatherland and Res Publica Union share the concerns of the democratic world about the events in Ukraine. We condemn the aggression of the Russian Federation against the independent state of Ukraine and the occupation of part of it. This barbaric step in 21st century Europe is incredible and terrible and recalls the violent methods of implementing its imperialist policies in totalitarian countries of the last century. Parallels to the aggressive policies of Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union will inevitably arise at the end of the 1930s. Scary indifference, blue eyes, and confidence in dictators also come to mind, so nothing was done to stop aggression. At the time, aggression developed as follows: In 1936, Germany occupied the Rhine's demilitarised zone, which after World War I had been transformed into a buffer zone free of arms. Hitler tried to see if the Antantian states would react if he marched into the zone in violation of the treaty. Nothing happened, even though at that time France still had the power to stop the militarisation of Germany. In March 1938 the German troops seized Austria. The referendum under Nazi control and under the conditions of occupation provided a green path for Austria to join Germany. Hitler controlled the world's reaction for the second time. The world recognised the results of this referendum and Anschluss. In the summer of 1938, the German propaganda machine launched the stormy accusation of Czechoslovakia, the only democratic Central European country, against the persecution of the German minority and the intention of attacking peace-loving Germany. With Hitler's support, the creation of paramilitary units began in Sudedium, terrorising the Czech Republic and taking control of some of the state institutions. Hitler controlled the world's reaction for the third time. Instead of supporting Czechoslovakia, the great powers in Munich entered into an agreement on 30 September forcing Czechoslovakia to surrender the land of Sudedi to Germany. In March 1939, Germany occupied the entire Czech Republic, while six were taken from Lithuania to Klaipeda. The democratic world was silent. Hitler had received a signal that he could do what he wanted, without fearing the countersteps of the great democracies. When Stalin and Hitler signed the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact, it was too late. On September 1, Germany and on September 17, the Soviet Union attacked Poland. World War II had begun. In 2008, Russia attacked Georgia. During the Georgian war, European leaders were only able to acknowledge that Russia's invasion was deplorable. Even the words 'aggression' and 'ocupation' were avoided, although what happened was unambiguously clear to everyone. The reaction of the democratic world to the occupation of Crimea is ominously similar to indifference in 1938 and 2008. The rhetoric regarding the invasion of Crimea by Russian troops has been sharper. The more straightforward of Europeans has been the US Minister for Foreign Affairs, Kerry, who called it the occupation, which is a relatively strong message from the great powers. But messages are not enough to hold back the aggressor. Clear steps are needed to strengthen Europe's security, to increase the US's contribution to European security, but above all the European countries' own contribution to their own security. History repeats itself. It is possible that if Georgia had been more strongly supported and called things with the right names, the invasion of Crimea would have been cancelled. Now that the occupation of Crimea is also being watched by rhetoric alone, the independence of Ukraine as a whole will be threatened. This could be a domino effect. After all, Russia has never abandoned the infamous Karaganov doctrine, which already stated in 1992 that Russia's aim was to restore control over the territory of the whole of the near-foreign country, the former Soviet Union. For Karaganov, several years later, Russian President Putin called the break-up of the Soviet Union the biggest geopolitical disaster of the 20th century. We briefly recall the measures by which Russia had to restore its control: the Russian language as a second state language, double citizenship, the right of the Russian armed forces to conduct peacekeeping operations in a nearby foreign country, the right of Russia to go with the armed forces to help its fellow countrymen when they think they are being harassed by Russia, and the use of economic levers to influence the policies of the former republics. The collapse of the Soviet Union was not the biggest geopolitical disaster of the 20th century, but the biggest disaster of the 21st century could be the dismantling of Ukraine. This can bring back to the heart of Europe an era of wars when violence can no longer be contained and chaos can take over the whole of Europe, but perhaps the world. If Ukraine cannot be protected, democracy and freedom will not have much confidence elsewhere in Europe. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Fatherland and Res Publica Union supports free and democratic Ukraine and votes in favour of the Riigikogu statement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U161	Thank you very much, Mr Mart Nutt. I would like to ask for the floor as a representative of the Group of the Centre Party of Mailis Repsi. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U162	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! In the previous speech, I mentioned a few things that the Ukrainians are expecting. During the debate on the text of this statement, I will talk about a few nuances. We are looking at areas where we, as members of the parliament of the Republic of Estonia, can provide assistance, but also more broadly, members of the European Union and NATO. It is certainly very important to have a substantive professional relationship with Ukrainian politicians and experts. Nor did we in our own time, when we were negotiating with international organisations, imagine exactly what reform was necessary and to what extent, and we did not much like foreign experts to talk about how to live. That is why the Ukrainians are extremely friendly with the representatives of the former Soviet Union Member States that they do not speak so reprehensible and intrusively. It is certainly not a secret to anyone who has visited Ukraine and had a political discussion with MEPs, for example, that they are taking our advice and opinion much more. What reforms is Ukraine currently undertaking? Firstly, the return of the very controversial 2004 Constitution, which I have already touched upon. It is clear to all parties that there is a need to adopt a substantially improved new constitution in order to bring about any kind of peace of work. Whether the amendments made to the 2004 Constitution are sufficient or whether a new draft is needed, it is the task of the working group to decide on this. Either way, the deadlines are extremely short. It has been agreed that this will be done within two to three months. Secondly, extensive codification of electoral laws is very important. I believe that those who have followed the events in Ukraine over a longer period of time are quite accustomed to the fact that a new electoral regime has been established in Ukraine before each election. Majoritarian, proportionate, major-proportional and other systems have been tested, both in local elections and in parliamentary and presidential elections. Perhaps the most disturbing thing about ordinary people is that, although the elections are close together, they have to go to a different polling district each time. This is what a person really feels, but it also means that they are chosen on the basis of very different systems. This is confusing and certainly not transparent. The reason for introducing new systems has been simple: the political forces have been looking for rules that offer advantages to them. The third very important issue is economic support. It is clear that Ukraine urgently needs resources to pay out teachers' and doctors' salaries, as well as disability benefits and pensions for pensioners. It is also clear that, in a revolutionary situation, people are willing to go through a rather narrow period of time, but if we are to unite and normalise Ukrainian society, it must be borne in mind that the support that has not been paid out for a long time is certainly not a uniting force. If we are thinking of the factory people in the eastern regions of Ukraine, for example, the general strike is not what Ukraine needs now. In addition, economic support is needed for fundamental reforms. I am not sure how many people are aware of why there are such big disputes about gas in Ukraine. The heating bill for ordinary people is almost 90% subsidised. People have not really felt what, for example, the volatility of gas prices on the market or the agreements with Russia. Basic measures are needed to replace general subsidies for certain target groups or support in the form of higher wages, for example, in the public sector. These processes certainly create very, very big debates and contradictions in society. Support and even a small example of Estonia is what the Ukrainian politicians who are preparing for the reforms definitely need. It is also important to take into account the disputes around the Crimean peninsula. We have talked today about geopolitical disputes, perhaps a little less about political disputes around the gas pipeline. It is no secret that the Crimean peninsula will be vital in a few years' time if Azerbaijan and, in the long term, Iran are to become an alternative gas pipeline. We can also think three steps forward and ask what battles unfortunate Ukraine actually has on its soil and what are the real political objectives of the movement of troops. Either way, it is up to us today, by common force, to condemn the use of the armed forces of another country against Ukraine. It is clear that at least part of the territory of one country is occupied. Unfortunately, this has not only taken place on the Crimean peninsula, but also quite several kilometres outside of it. All these events have very strongly encouraged contradictions, hatred and hatred in Ukraine, including hatred against minorities. We must resolve these problems together, both on the European side and, of course, in Ukraine itself. To this end, a very high level expert group has been proposed to analyse events from the beginning of last November and the first very painful attack of 30 November to the first deaths in mid-January. He must also study these mysterious snipers, they were on the roof of Parliament or later near the Ukrainian hotel. Either way, generally accepted and reliable expertise is necessary for Ukrainian society itself. I hope that our experts will also be involved in this work. In any case, it is important to support this statement today, because whatever disputes we have about legitimacy or the future, the annexation of another country is not acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U163	Thank you very much, Mr Mailis Reps. I would like to ask my colleague, Mr Sepa, to speak as a representative of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U164	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Ukraine is the focus of information channels and international organisations around the world. We have received enough information to make an objective assessment of the situation. We have confidence that, as an Estonian nation state, all the necessary decisions have been made to ensure the security of our country, but we all need recognition and a sense of unity as citizens, nations and nation states. Let us not lose our heads in this propaganda war, which has no dimension, and let us respect the sovereignty of nation states to decide independently the issues facing their country. The Estonian Reform Party strongly supports the adoption of the declaration 'in support of Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-05_U165	Thank you very much. As all the political groups have been able to speak, I will conclude the negotiations. We can go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I will put to the final vote a draft 608 of the Riigikogu statement submitted by 63 members of the Riigikogu in support of Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity. Please vote! 75 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, one against, with no abstentions. The bill has been accepted as a statement. [[Let's hear it.]] Thank you very much, colleagues. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 5.01 p.m.
