ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the Monday session of the ninth working week of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, please give a signal to those who wish to hand over drafts or enquiries. First, please, the representative of the Government of the Republic of Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U2	Mr. Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching four draft laws today. Firstly, the draft law amending the University Act, the University of Applied Sciences Act and the Law on the Organisation of Research and Development. The Government of the Republic shall be represented by the Minister of Education and Research in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Secondly, the draft law amending the VAT Act. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Third and fourthly, the draft law amending the University Act and the Veterinary Organisation Act and the draft law amending the Act implementing the European Union's common agricultural policy. In processing these two draft laws in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U3	I have adopted four draft laws on behalf of the board. Their processing shall be decided in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. I have the following to inform you. The Bureau has forwarded a draft Council decision, submitted by the Government of the Republic on 20 March, on the position to be adopted, on behalf of the European Union, at the 66th session of the International Maritime Organisation Marine Environment Protection Committee on the adoption of amendments to Annex VI to the MARPOL Convention. They concern a common policy of the European Union. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the Committee on the Environment and the Economic Commission to give an opinion on the draft of the Government's positions and decision. The deadline for the opinion is on 27 March at 4 p.m. Now we're going to do a presence check. 94 members of the Riigikogu are present, no 7. Now we need to confirm the week's agenda. The Committee on Culture has proposed to exclude 12th item from the agenda of the 9th working week of the plenary session on Wednesday 26 March, the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Recognition of Foreign Professional Qualifications, initiated by the Government of the Republic. The Economic Commission has proposed to exclude from the agenda the 13th paragraph of the Wednesday 26 March session, the first reading of the draft Act amending the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 573. The Committee on the Environment has proposed to exclude the first reading of draft law amending the Water Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, from the agenda of this week's plenary session on Wednesday 26 March. With these changes, I'll put this week... Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U4	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! It's a pleasure to address you with this title. However, I have a procedural issue of concern before the agenda is adopted. According to § 97 of our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the first reading of the draft must take place within seven working weeks of the adoption of the draft by the Riigikogu. The draft law that I have initiated, 577, which has also been affectionately called the law on the deterrence of decoy ducks, has certainly exceeded this deadline, but it is not on the agenda. Despite the fact that I have turned to the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has not dealt with this draft either, justifying it by the fact that many other drafts have emerged in the course of the regrouping process from the same area. I ask for an explanation from you, as President of the Riigikogu, whether such a justification can be legitimate and why such a violation of the Rules of Procedure can be justified at all!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U5	Thank you. The President shall be embarrassed and shall seek advice from the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U6	My colleague Herkel has just read out an explanation that was really given to him. There is a transition period, there are several drafts on the table and we would like to put them together in such a way that the work can go on efficiently. Formally, my colleague Herkel is right. I apologize for that, but the delay is due to good intentions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U7	Thank you. I would not be happy to open negotiations on this issue because it does not concern the adoption of the agenda. I will vote on this week's agenda. Please take a stand and vote. 84 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour and 2 against, with 3 abstentions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U8	Our agenda today is to empower Prime Minister-designate Taavi Rõivas to form a government. To begin with, the President of the Republic appointed Mr. Taavi Rõivas as candidate for prime minister in his decision No 392 of 14 March, who was given the task of forming the government. Pursuant to § 89 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, the prime minister candidate will present a report to the Riigikogu on the basis of the establishment of a future government. The prime minister candidate expressed his wish to make a presentation before the Riigikogu at today's Riigikogu session. His report will last up to 25 minutes. A member of the Riigikogu may submit up to two oral questions to the candidate Prime Minister. There is no negotiation under the Home and Working Procedures Act. The power to set up a government for the prime minister candidate is decided by the Riigikogu by a majority vote. That's it. Please, Javier Clothes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U9	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! Good Estonian people! Times are difficult and it is therefore important to repeat, as soon as possible, that the foreign and security policy of the government union that is being created continues on a firm course. We have agreed that defence costs will be 2% of Estonia's GDP. This 2% will be complemented by investments in interconnections, which will also guarantee our security, ensuring opportunities for electricity and gas or for transporting people and goods. Maintaining financial contributions to national defence at a high level is essential both in essence and symbolically. But 2% without the defence that is behind it, without the love that forms its foundation for our own Estonia, our own functioning, democratic and close to our soul, would remain only a number. Estonia's independence is priceless. I would like to express my thanks to all previous governments who have used Estonia for nearly 23 years since the restoration of independence to build a functioning state, a functioning economy and, most importantly, a functioning democracy and civil society. I quote John Fitzgerald Kennedy, the 35th President of the United States: 'Democracy and national defence do not replace each other. It's the only one that's gonna fail. ' Estonia has never been as strong in history as it is now. Thanks to past governments, thanks to their determination, we are also prepared for more difficult times internationally. Not all countries have used time just as wisely, and that is also the big difference that separates us from the countries that are in direct danger. We have strong alliances, we are the contributing members of the defence team of the free world. The mark of the strength of democracy and society in Estonia has also begun a week. We are changing the constitutional government in a constitutional way without any interruption in the functioning of the state. My generation will take over the stick and consistency of the current governments and will move it forward with the same wisdom, foresight and responsibility that has been done so far. No government can overcome or around Estonia's main problem: the incomes, pensions and salaries of Estonian people are too low. We are still poor compared to our northern neighbours. The government that we are hoping is committed to helping the engines of the losing Estonian economy to run again and to making people's incomes grow faster. We want to make job creation considerably cheaper and start an ambitious programme to reduce labour taxes. To this end, we will increase the tax-free minimum and reduce the unemployment insurance rate. As you already know, New Year's income tax will fall. All of this means 170 extra euros per year for people who receive the average salary in Estonia. All workers, regardless of their income, will benefit from the fall in labour taxes. This is the money that a person decides to use. It is a person, not a state, who is the best judge of what to do with the money he has earned. A growing economy and falling unemployment are also the foundation of pension increases. In 2015, we will increase our pension at the maximum indexation rate and ensure that the average old-age pension is exempt from income tax. In order to ensure sustainable growth of pensions in the future, equal attention needs to be paid both to growth-friendly economic policies and to steps to increase employment. Prosperity is born only through entrepreneurship. I have great respect for people who dare to dream, do, and take risks. It is up to the state to create an environment that would encourage entrepreneurship and create jobs in Estonia. This could also be done by those entrepreneurs who want to conquer the world. We have agreed on ways to make business with the country even easier, and we will see that cooperation, innovation and new markets are at the forefront of supporting businesses and science. We want to pay particular attention to encouraging entrepreneurship in society. We respect and appreciate everyone who tries. Those who succeed are best thanked for their success. In recognition of both the success and the success of the future, we have written a business day in a government union agreement. I have said this repeatedly as Minister of Social Affairs, and now I repeat as candidate for Prime Minister: one child in need is also too much for Estonia. Every person, every child is important to Estonia. Our goal is to reduce child poverty. From the new year, the first and second children's allowance will rise to EUR 45 and families who need more state support will receive a total of EUR 90 for both the first and the second children. Third-child allowance will rise to EUR 100 for all, regardless of income. In addition, we will increase the level of income support for families with children, which is very precisely taxpayers' money aimed at reducing poverty. Avoiding child maintenance is worth the deep condemnation of society. I really don't understand the men who leave their children out of support. In the future, maintenance creditors will be deprived of state subsidies and maintenance payments will also be deducted from income tax refunds and funded pension funds. Being a parent is a responsibility that is not selective. At the beginning of the year, it was ten years since the parental benefit came into effect. The knowledge that the income of the family will not decrease in the time spent at home with the child has increased the confidence of young families and contributed to an increase in the birth rate. The next big bottleneck by increasing the birth rate is the shortage of childcare facilities. We plan to use EU funds to invest in kindergartens as well as to create flexible childcare facilities. Nearly every adult knows from personal experience how practice or the circle of interest that was taken in childhood has affected his life for a long time. The interest in electronics has led to a technical university of study or sports practice acquired at soccer school, which has also made it easy for adults to take care of their physics. So far, there has been no agreement in our country on the principles of effective support for recreational education. Now we're gonna do it. We will also end the situation where young trainers do not have medical or pension insurance. The new government will continue to implement important reforms initiated by the previous government: reform of the school network and higher education reform, reform of working capacity and reform of needs-based family benefits, reform of the transition to education in Estonian, etc. I'm only gonna stop one. Work capacity reform has the potential to be the biggest social reform in the last decade, but it is even more important that the labour capacity reform has the potential to make society healthier in its entirety. Equal opportunities for working and participating in society are a clear signal that everyone is welcome to participate in Estonia's success. Our aim is to make governance of the country more open and flexible. Now and in the future, ministers will take the lead in areas that may not necessarily coincide exactly with rigid ministerial boundaries. This more flexible organisation of executive power is based on the recommendations of Estonian experts and the report on Estonian governance published by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development in 2011. The model, which enables a task-driven government office, is also used in Finland and Sweden. I consider it to be the only possibility that ministers are guided by the principles of open governance in their work. Transparency and the involvement of citizens in decision-making have become a new normality, a necessary trust line between citizens and the government. I believe that our society wants to hold a public and constructive debate on the challenges facing Estonia. Time has shown that without the support and will of partners and co-thinkers, we will not get far. That is why, together with employers' and workers' representatives, we are working with fresh force to agree on a system of insurance for accidents at work and occupational diseases, and we will also look for solutions to a number of other important problems. Reforming the services of municipalities so that they rise to a new level does not start with a sickle and template. We will set out at which level of the country the tasks to be carried out and how they will be financed. Honourable listeners! Every year, 500 people die from diseases diagnosed with the word 'alcohol'. Another thousand Estonian people die every year indirectly because of alcohol. That's 1,500 people a year. To put this gloomy number into perspective, I say we lost 2,300 people in the War of Independence. That is why the Spring Coalition here has decided to take real steps to help us save lives. In the case of alcohol, there are four real options: increase in prices through increased excise duties, reduction of advertising and sales outlets and effective treatment. Think that if the whole Estonian Foundation's programme 'Less for Finland' and the state's steps were successful, this would mean that by the 100th birthday of the Republic of Estonia we would at least be able to save as many lives of Estonian people as we lost in the War of Independence. That is a very dignified goal. A separate issue is to reduce the availability of alcohol to children. All the tools that work here must be used, because sober youth often also means a healthy adult life, a healthy and happy life. The coalition that is being created wants to grow Estonia's internal unity. If we cultivate the welfare here, it will reach everyone, regardless of nationality. Let us remember that the day when the declaration of independence 'Manifest for all the peoples of Estonia' was read at the beginning of the Estonian state. As far as citizenship policy is concerned, the basic principles remain firmly in place, but our aim is to stop the reproduction of stateless people and make citizenship more humane. The new government is not only consistent with foreign and defence policy, but also in other areas, which we are constantly taking over from the previous coalition. For example, we will continue with the ongoing culture policy and environmental conservation and will not change the major paradigms. Figuratively speaking, ERM will continue to be built and phosphorus mining will not take place in the year that began. A responsible parent thinks of an inheritance that he leaves for his children. A wasteful attitude towards nature and the future, burning energy use is not acceptable to Estonia of the future. In the beginning of the year, the surrounding greener is becoming, and the energy policy of the spring coalition is clearly doing so. In order to deal responsibly with Estonian natural resources, we will continue to prepare a national development plan for the sustainable use of oil shale for the years 2016 to 2030 and analyse the separation of the country's oil shale resources from the national energy giant. Estonians have always been a natural people, and it is our duty to give this opportunity to our children. Good listeners! I am very pleased that our opponents are not criticising the government's desire to do too little or wrong, but they say that it is all too much. We really do have ambition. We are not going to sit back and offer comfort to our opponents. The financial impact of our decisions on the 2015 budget is estimated by the Ministry of Finance to be EUR 172.1 million, and just as large are the sources of cover. In other words, these decisions do not change the balance position of the government sector. The state's financial order will continue to be the basis for everything; this government will continue to pursue a balanced fiscal policy. The country of Estonia must be run in such a way that there is no reason to say the words of one of the predecessors of John Fitzgerald Kennedy, quoted earlier, Herbert Hoover: 'Blessed be the young, because they inherit the debt. " We don't bequeath our children's debts. Good people! With regard to the government that is being created today, there is also talk of generational change. Although this generation shift in politics, which is long-awaited in words and could not be expected in pre-war Estonia, now tends to come, it seems at the same time that it is not ready to come. It seems that the generation of Estonians who grew up in independent Estonia, my generation, our goals, our concerns and expectations for Estonia are a rather unknown country for many who have spoken so far for our future and for the future of Estonia. Ignorance, of course, gives birth to hesitation, including fear. I therefore consider it my duty to present our ideas. We believe that Estonia does not need a 'big narrative'. The only narrative we need is the fate in our own hands, the hope of a better tomorrow that everyone can build. It's Switzerland, the Nordics, the narrative of every successful country. You can't make that up. It's a desire to carry out your life and country every day, creatively and with pleasure. We believe that the great aim of the Estonian state is to encourage its citizens to succeed. We want a country that is ready for the success of its citizens, sees successes and implements them for everyone's benefit. We want the Republic of Estonia to continue to be a country of hope. The state of Estonia may not be perfect, which country would be? But there's always hope here. We want a country where people have the hope that they will succeed, that their work will be necessary and that their children will be rewarded with dignity, that their children will be healthy and grow in a safe environment, that their health will be cared for and that their old age will be dignified. We believe in our own generation, young family people, who already have Estonia's destiny: raising children, helping parents and grandparents, building and protecting the country. We want to do our own work, take responsibility and see the fruits of our work. We feel responsible. In our opinion, it is natural to live in a continent with open borders, where everyone has the right to work where they see the results of their work. This freedom gives us the responsibility and responsibility to look with the world's open eyes and make decisions every day so that it is Estonia where every person in Estonia would want and be able to taste the fruits of his work. The government agreement that has been given to you for evaluation bears these new generation goals, and this spirit, to a significant extent. Nothing will come to light, so I will sincerely bow down to our parents. We respect and appreciate what you've done. Estonian society is strong when we seek a connection between different generations, not a confrontation. Good listeners! Finally, I would like to thank the Socialists for their very constructive work, which has resulted in a coalition agreement signed on the beginning of spring. It was not easy to find common ground in the opinions of clear-minded partners, but looking at the result, we have to say that we did quite well. I dare say, on behalf of all the signatories to the coalition agreement, that we understand how short the working hours of this government are. But that doesn't stop us from setting far-reaching goals. Today, we want to put down signs to show what we care about, and if the citizens of Estonia decide so in March next year, we will continue to act towards these targets. It's spring. Long live Estonia! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U10	Members of the Riigikogu have questions for the candidate Prime Minister. Ene Ergma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U11	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good candidate for Prime Minister! I'll start with exactly where you started with security. I received an Estonian Päevaleht this morning. It was written that, according to the future Minister for Infrastructure, the concentration of electricity production in Ida-Virumaa poses a security risk. Can you comment on that? We have been producing electricity in Ida-Virumaa for over 20 years. I don't feel like it's a huge security threat.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U12	Thank you for your question. I didn't notice that statement when I read the papers this morning, but if it's about my position, I'll say I don't think so. I think that an important part of Estonia's security is certainly that our energy economy But I don't consider the concentration of electricity generation in one county to be a security threat.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U13	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U14	Thank you, Mr President. Good candidate for Prime Minister! First of all, I want to congratulate us on the work we have done over the years. I think we've done a lot of good things. At the same time, agreements and expectations are a value in itself. That's my question. Looking at the possible tax increases and the redistribution of money that the interim government has proposed, this raises questions. One of my questions relates to parental pension. Indeed, we have previously agreed on some draft laws that have now entered into force as a law, but these changes will only start their real life in the near future. One relates to the reduction of income tax, the other to the parental pension. According to the latest information, the intention is to postpone the entitlement to the parental pension. Is this true, and if so, why have such decisions been made? I mean, it's a specific kind of money that people would have gotten in their hands.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U15	Thank you, good Sven! I thank you and all the other members of the IRL for what we have done together! It's not a little bit short at all. However, as far as parental pension is concerned, the part of the parental pension that has already entered into force and been put into effect will certainly remain valid. The only delay is the entry into force of the part that has not yet come to the people's hands. It's going to be delayed exactly as long as we make extra payments to the second pillar of the pension. We all know that we pay very large sums of money to the second pillar afterwards because, in times of crisis, the country was unable to do so. Now we're gonna do it. This cost is very high. We will be able to continue with the full amount of parental pension once we have completed these very high costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U16	Mart Nutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U17	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister-designate! Our neighbouring Russia has started to give a massive amount of double citizenship to realise its national plans. It was actually started even before the Russian-Georgian war in Abkhazia and South Ossetia. It has now been used in Crimea and in several Eastern Ukraine regions. What measures is the government planning to prevent this dangerous tendency from expanding to Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U18	Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U19	Thank you. The first sentence of the chapter on citizenship in the Government Union Treaty, by quoting from the head, is that we will not change the foundations of citizenship policy and we will consider everything that we have considered to be important so far in citizenship policy to be important in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U20	Thank you very much. Honourable Prime Minister-designate! It is natural that when a new coalition is born, a lot will be done. I am not one of those who think that you have taken too much action, but I think that there is less than a year left to do all of this. Every coalition, when it comes to power, naturally thinks that the next elections will also be successful and that the work will continue. But do you also have Plan A, which you will do with all thought and promise, or do you think that you will also succeed on 1 March 2015 and continue to rule in the same composition?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U21	Andrus Island, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U22	Thank you. Plan A is also about winning the election. Indeed, the only plan is to carry out everything we have written down. That's our plan, and that's what we work for every day.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U23	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister's candidate! I am asking about the point of the interim government agenda on education and science. The coalition has promised to raise teachers' salaries. As we know, the coalition still in office in the last two years has raised the minimum wage for teachers from EUR 644 to EUR 800 and the average wage is already approaching EUR 1000. How many euros will the minimum wage for teachers rise in January 2015?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U24	Thank you. Yes, the rise in the pay of teachers is one of our most important goals in the field of education, alongside the quality of education. I'm sure we'll raise the teacher's salary. We have not decided exactly how much we will raise the minimum wage and how many all wages. As far as it is feasible for the Estonian state and the taxpayer, the aim is to increase the income of all teachers, in addition to raising the minimum wage for teachers. I couldn't help but notice your little mockery or your stunt when you called the government that was to be created temporary. Life will show you how temporary it is. Yeah, there's an election in a year, but don't think we're not going to win this election. This government will not be temporary.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U25	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U26	Thank you very much. Dear Taavi in the garment! My question concerns an old problem in the area of justice. It is clear from your action plan that you will be better able to protect the fundamental rights of individuals. My question concerns the protection of fundamental rights of individuals during criminal investigations. What is the position of the new coalition, should a person have the right to access the documents on which the offence proceedings are based and should he have the opportunity to defend himself before, for example, being arrested? This is an old problem and we have not found a solution to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U27	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U28	Thank you. All these issues we have discussed quite specifically, but before all the details have been analysed calmly and the answers have been found as a result of the analysis, I would not extend the wording that has been written into the agreement of the government union. The protection of people's fundamental rights is very important; it is a constitutional value. That, of course, must be the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U29	Good manager! Good Taavi in Clothes! Point 1 of Chapter 1 of the Coalition Agreement provides for the abolition of a lower rate of excise duty on special-purpose diesel and lighter fuel oil. Can you tell me how many people who use liquid fuel to heat their house are affected by this change?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U30	Marko Pomerants, please! I'm sorry! Lauri Laasi, please! My bad.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U31	Thank you. Thousands of households are affected, but their number is decreasing every year because people see that there are more sustainable heating solutions, both financially and in terms of nature conservation. People themselves have planned investments to abandon this very expensive solution, even now. We will support them with investment grants so that this transition is as soon as possible. The result is that people's monthly heating bills are decreasing because, as I said, there are much more favourable and greener heating solutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U32	Thank you. It's okay! Honourable Prime Minister-designate! Many local government leaders have been concerned about the continued underfunding of local roads. Can you confirm today that there will be no reduction in the financing of excise duties on domestic roads next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U33	Marko Pomerants, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U34	Thank you. Yes, I can assure you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U35	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good candidate for Prime Minister! I will read your coalition agreement and admire this text. I find there, for example, that you are raising your pension at the maximum rate of indexation. As you know, you do not have an alternative, as the failure to raise the maximum pension index for intermediate years can now be adjusted. Just as well in the environmental section, the sun still rises from the east during the temporary government. Why can't we find such a point in a coalition treaty?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U36	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U37	Thank you. Basically, you can add it to the sunrise point, but that's not a separate goal. We will continue to read the point quoted by the honourable member of the Riigikogu. We say there that we will ensure that the average old-age pension continues to be exempt from income tax. This half of this sentence is not self-evident, i.e. about EUR 10 million in expenditure for the state budget next year. This is the half of the sentence that this particular point was written into the treaty just like that. The security of retirement age is very important. This is far from the only point that concerns people of retirement age. All we are doing to ensure that the economy grows and unemployment is reduced is also directly linked to the size of the pension increase.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U38	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister-designate! In your speech today, there were many true and pleasant promises for the people of Estonia. I listened attentively, but unfortunately I did not hear a single word about agriculture and rural areas, but fortunately these issues are in the coalition agreement. You claim there that you will ensure the co-financing of the Estonian state, which is necessary for the existence of the rural development plan. How much do you do that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U39	Thank you. We will ensure co-financing in the agreed amount. I'm sure you know those percentages better than I do. But it is not only the co-financing rate that is important, but also the fact that these very large sums of money are being used for rural development, which will improve people's living and quality of life in the countryside, which is about EUR 1 billion. This is one of the government's first major tasks, so that the large amounts for the implementation of the beautiful plans of the rural development plan will have an effect. This is actually about euro money in general. The activity of the government that is being created depends to a very large extent on us directing every euro that we receive to accelerate Estonia's development to the right place. Then, in seven years' time, we can say that the billions that came to us from Europe took Estonian society forward and we reached a new level in many respects. The rural development plan is exactly the same.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U40	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U41	Thank you. You're saying you're the Prime Minister of the Reform Party, not yet, but apparently you can do it, and you talk, I understand, on behalf of the Reform Party. That is why I was surprised that you stressed the change of generations in government. The Estonian press is considered fair and fair. It turns out, however, that Taavi Kõivas became prime minister as a result of an emergency exchange, not a generation shift. After all, the Reform Party intended to appoint Siim Kallas as Prime Minister. So it wasn't the party that planned the change of generations, as you say.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U42	Thank you. When I become Prime Minister, I will certainly be the Prime Minister of Estonia as a whole. I repeat over what I said in my speech and what, I hope, you have also noticed. I call on generations to be coherent, to understand each other, not to oppose. This is a principle that I intend to follow not only in words but certainly also in actions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U43	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U44	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister's candidate! One of the most resounding electoral promises of the Reform Party was to provide EUR 130 a year for children. In the coalition agreement with the IRL, that was a promise. I can't find it in the new agreement. Why do you keep cheating on voters? Or did the Social Democrats not allow it to be included in the treaty?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U45	Thank you. We have decided that in the coming year, the principles of how the country can support circles of interest must be written down. There are more loose ends and details to negotiate than we would have imagined. But I believe that not only the Reform Party or the Social Democratic Party, but quite a number of parliamentary parties have plans to create round money in a way or in another Estonia after the next elections. At the same time, it is very important that, before we create a funding facility, the parents and municipalities have been discussed in detail how this money could best reach children and groups of interests.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U46	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U47	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister's candidate! You have a tax chapter that says that you will reduce tax exemptions for those who do great on their own. What specific tax exemptions are going to be wound up?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U48	Thank you. These tax exemptions that we are reducing, we have all listed in the treaty. We have already talked here about the derogation for the use of specially labelled fuel in areas other than agriculture and small-scale fishing vessels. We have said publicly that we are reducing the possibility of deduction of VAT from companies' cars. This is where we continue the plans of the government in office. These are, I would say, the main changes. If you don't find one or the other tax exemption in the treaty, then we won't have to lose it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U49	Olga Soldier, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U50	Thank you, Madam President. Excuse me, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister's candidate! I have a question about a subject that has not been included in your coalition agreement. I am interested in refugee policy. I attended a conference last week, where Estonia's refugee policy was just mentioned. Commissioner Malmström spoke there. Unfortunately, the representative of the Reform Party did not participate in this parliamentary party debate. Therefore, we did not know what the Reform Party's position on refugee policy was. Are you going to continue with a conservative line, as has been the case so far, or do you think that refugee policy could become more liberal, even so liberal, that Estonia could join the voluntary refugee resettlement programme?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U51	Thank you. There are areas where the implementation of major changes requires a pre-requisitely very thorough preparation period. There are clear reasons why there are not many details of refugee policy in this agreement. But we have no intention of making fundamental changes to the agreement concluded during the year. Unfortunately, I cannot comment on why there was no representative of the Reform Party at this conference. This certainly does not mean that the members of the Reform Party do not consider this issue to be important.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U52	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U53	Thank you. Dear Taavi in the garment! The Centre Party has always considered it very important for children who attend school to have a proper warm school lunch. It was therefore very sympathetic to read in your coalition agreement that the Reform Party has also come up with this idea. At the same time, we have always stressed that the amount for which five years ago a healthy school lunch could be offered has been beyond time, because the rise in food prices has been one of the fastest. I will not read out of the coalition agreement when you will offer free school lunch to upper secondary school students, either from 1 January 2015 or sometime later. How much is this school lunch allowance? If the allowance is 78 cents per portion, the school chefs will no longer be able to offer a healthy lunch.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U54	Thank you. The plan is to start free of charge, it would be better to say that the state's compensated school lunch offer to gymnasts from 1 January 2015. There are very good reasons for this. Parliament has already approved the 2014 budget and new initiatives can only be taken from 1 January 2015. I wouldn't say this exact amount for sure yet, because I have also come across this issue as a member of the City Council and as an elder in the district, and I know that there are very different solutions here. According to the procedures already in place, for example, the school I attended for the first eight years has been able to ensure that the gymnasts can also eat free of charge. At the same time, there are municipalities who support school lunch, who support more, to a lesser extent. The situation is quite different. Therefore, we did not put it in a very detailed text in full knowledge. I can assure you, however, that the state is definitely planning to allocate additional resources to the municipalities. What exactly the cost of a portion should be done must be done in cooperation with specialists.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U55	Ülo Tulik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U56	Thank you, President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister's candidate! In your speech, you mentioned that the new coalition will not take up the sickle and ruler in order to reform the administration, but you will put the responsibilities of the municipalities and the state firmly in place. The Reform Party has been in power for nearly ten years. What do you think is the obstacle why it has never been done before? Why should we believe that it is possible to settle this matter in one year?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U57	Thank you. There is no reason to expect that the country will now be ready and there will be no further development. On the contrary, the state and society as a whole must be in constant development, otherwise this would be a stagnation. Bringing municipal services to a new level is definitely what we are going to do. To this end, Estonia is able to use quite a large amount of European Union funds, and the result is much more important to me than where exactly the border goes. It is important that the people of Estonia, whether living in a city, a rural municipality or beyond large centres, know which services and at what level they have reason to expect from the municipality and what services the municipalities should provide in cooperation with each other. This concerns the social sector, where some have already worked very well together, but far from the whole of Estonia. This is about education, where your party partner Jaak Aaviksoo has taken very ambitious steps. This concerns a wide range of areas. My sincere belief is that it is important for the people of Estonia that the services provided by local governments are of uniform quality throughout Estonia. Whether it is possible to draw a map in Tallinn by order, we have been arguing for quite a long time. I do not believe that this can be resolved in a consensual way in one year. We will therefore focus on what we can do. I think that substantive administrative reform is more important to people.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U58	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U59	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister's candidate! You are of the opinion that all these years, Minister Kiisler's administrative reform has been one big slogan and it did not have, and does not have, substance. What must be the administrative reform that has content?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U60	Thank you. When I answered Ülo Tulik, I just described it. It is a substantial administrative reform that brings the quality of local government services to a new level and does so throughout Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U61	George Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U62	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable prime minister candidate in Taavi Clothes! First of all, I wish you a lot of strength in this responsible, difficult work, but I also believe in interesting work. I'm doing this with all my heart and all my heart. But I would like to ask you, do you also see in the coalition agreement those points that could provide additional motivation for local authorities to engage in entrepreneurship and create jobs in their territory?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U63	Thank you. A clear priority for the government being created is to increase entrepreneurship. I stayed on it for quite a while in my speech. This, of course, concerns the whole of Estonia, so are those people who hesitate to create a micro-company for themselves and perhaps for their families, to create a job for themselves, but it also affects people who see the whole world as their market, who dare to think very big. I really believe that the new Skype have already been created, and whether these companies want to keep their activities in the growth phase and promote it in Estonia is also very much dependent on what the state is doing. The financial centres of the world have many magnets with which to pull out companies with international reach from Estonia, but Estonia also has many strong pros. We can strengthen the pros we have and keep it focused. In all areas of Estonia, doing business is an honor, I intend to emphasise it myself, and I am quite sure that the entire government will emphasise it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U64	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U65	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister's candidate! You had such a beautiful speech, still a generation shift and a young prime minister takes the baton Ansip out of his tired hand, and the spring coalition makes changes that should be tasted by future generations. Well, let's see if these fruits come longer than zucchini. But I have a question about what you said in your speech about reducing the number of alcohol advertising and sales outlets. This is a very big change in your understanding. When we discussed restrictions on alcohol advertising, Minister Ligi said that we should not harass entrepreneurs. Have you and your supporters and sponsors made such a good deal that they will also allow you to impose restrictions on alcohol advertising?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U66	Thank you. I don't have any sponsors, much less I have them among alcohol producers. I don't think I'd be very popular among them. But the future direction of alcohol policy and tobacco policy is set out in two documents adopted by the government in office a few weeks ago. The new, emerging government coalition will do nothing that is not written in these policy documents and that has not received tangible support from stakeholders. We are more ambitious with the increase in excise duty, but it is my firm conviction that if we do not do something that would also be felt in the availability of alcohol, nothing will happen to the very gloomy statistics that I have read to you. It concerns people's lives and it is not a secondary issue at all. As far as advertising is concerned, this is also the subject of proposals in the alcohol policy document. Personally, I support banning outdoor advertising. Whether and how exactly the new government restricts advertising, time will show. We have clearly agreed that alcohol will become much less available at the store. The increase in excise duty will generate additional revenue for the country. That's what we need, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U67	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U68	Thank you. Dear Mr. Clothes! Your action plan is extremely laconic when it comes to municipal reform, and you say nothing about Tallinn. I am increasingly reminded by our capital management model of Eastern satrapia and some of the mayor's statements have been on the verge of security risks. There are also major problems in cooperation with surrounding municipalities. Why is there a space on this site in your program? Why don't you take steps to decentralise Tallinn and give local government status to the districts? Why don't you talk about the Tallinn Act or, even better, the Tallinn Region Act? Why is it out of the government's sight again? If your government doesn't turn out to be temporary, in a distant view, do you see a problem here and want to do something about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U69	Thank you. Yes, I certainly see a problem in Tallinn's management. If the newspaper issued for the money of the Tallinn taxpayer calls the Freedom Square Victory Square, then, yes, I see a problem in it. This offends me as an Estonian, as a Tallinnian, as a person who cherishes Estonia. I see a lot of problems in managing Tallinn. But to think that all these problems could be solved by the central authority in one year, I don't think it's real. My views, as well as the views of the Social Democratic Party and Reform Party on how Tallinn should be led, have been presented freshly in the local election programme. I have to admit, our program didn't get the support of the majority of the stables.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U70	Liisa-Ly Pakosta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U71	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Javier! I am also concerned about security issues. Your action plan clearly states that you intend to strengthen the Central Criminal Police so that it can better fight corruption. But it stands out that you are not naming the defence police, where the IRL has strengthened the fight against corruption that is particularly threatening security. Is this the finger of the April Roads or the conscious change of direction?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U72	Thank you. It is not possible to mention all the important public authorities that we consider important in terms of technicality in the text of the agreement. I would not count on the fact that one very important state agency has not been mentioned in one context or another, something very far-reaching.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U73	Juku-Kalle Raid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U74	Thank you. Alliku Jaak, a reminiscent of the old bolshevik, has been talking for years about the need to increase the number of ministers and thus the composition of the government. Can we now say that the new government you're going to run is like Jaak Allik? [[Laughter.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U75	Thank you. I was wondering where this question would end up. I believe that this government is the face of all ministers and the face of all Members of the coalition. It is also very important that this government is facing the people of Estonia. As regards the plan to make governance more dynamic, this proposal has been made, as I mentioned, by the OECD, which was proposed by Annika Uudelepp years ago, by many people who have studied the Estonian government in depth and reached the same understanding as the government union that is being created. All life must function dynamically, so it is very important that the governance of the state also helps to reflect the priorities of the government to be created, if necessary. The fact that we have additional emphasis on social and economic issues is certainly not random.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U76	Thomas Tõniste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U77	Thank you. Good candidate for Prime Minister! Please explain to us some temporary government renewable energy policy. Currently, many renewable energy producers are overcompensated. For a year and a half, there has been a bill in the Riigikogu that reduces the fees for renewable energy, which unfortunately has not yet been able to be passed as a law because of a number of politicians standing close to renewable energy producers. Therefore, in 2013 alone, consumers paid three and a half million euros more than they could have paid. The Reform Party and the Social Democrats have tabled a number of amendments to increase support. Why does the new coalition wish to give priority to private interests over those of consumers who have to pay for them all? How much will it cost consumers in 2014 and 2015?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U78	Thank you. On pages 8 and 9 of the Government Union Treaty, it is written in very detailed terms. The general principle is that renewable energy support must focus on more environmentally sustainable energy use and make nature cleaner. We have had many debates on these issues over the years, and I remember them too. But I believe that, as the government union agreement on pages 8 and 9 has been written, we could move on. I stress that some of the points are completely consciously ahead of the words 'analyze' or 'weighing'. Some journalists have dealt with these points as decisions that were already born. If these were made decisions and made plans, the words 'analyze' or 'weighing' wouldn't be in front of it. It is also worth observing when reading the text of the treaty.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U79	Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U80	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good candidate for Prime Minister! You made it clear in your speech that an Estonian person will win 170 euros from tax reductions: he will win 24 euros from an increase in the tax-free minimum; the remaining 146 euros will result from a reduction in income tax. Income tax reduction has a considerable role to play here. According to your calculations, how much is Estonia's average wage based on which the coalition made these calculations?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U81	Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U82	Thank you. Unemployment insurance premiums should certainly be included in these reforms. Here comes 0.4%, which is a human being to wear. The additional impact that I did not calculate for these 170 euros per year, 0.2%, is also a victory for the employer. In general, there is no reason to doubt my ability to calculate.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U83	Thank you, Mr President. Good candidate for Prime Minister! Unfortunately, we do not yet have the mysterious Excel table in our hands today, where all income and expenses were to be written very accurately. But you've opened up where you're going to find money to cover your promises. One of these places is the larger sale of Estonian Loto. You have said that you will allow Estonian Loto to use advertising to achieve this. It is known to be gambling, but it can be said that gambling is mild. Some time ago, the Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu discussed this and at that time, the Social Democrats, fortunately, remained in this position, just as we did, that if we started promoting the lottery, it would be an immoral move. As we know, the lottery game is forbidden for under 16-year-olds. What made you do that and how did you tell the Social Democrats?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U84	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U85	Thank you. First of all, there is no reason to mystify this table in any way; the same list of sources of cover has been read by Jürgen Ligi at a government press conference. I listed it today when I met the IRL Group. We confirm that there is a cover for each plan and indeed we also confirm that 3 million euros out of 172.1 million euros comes from additional funds from Estonian Loto advertising. You claimed that advertising Eesti Loto is immoral. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U86	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister-designate! Your plan to reduce the consumption and availability of alcohol and to lose its outlets near childcare facilities is only commendable. I believe that alcohol advertising should be banned and excise duty increased. Hopefully, the sales of alcohol will decrease and the excise duty will come from the smaller amount of alcohol sold. It must be remembered, however, that evil is also in the world, and raising excise duties on alcohol motivates criminals to take some of the demand for alcohol underground. Are you sure you can collect excise duty on the planned volume? Are you sure you're gonna be able to get the money from the excise rise? What preventive measures have you planned to keep the secret alcohol market under control and are the cost of these measures planned for the budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U87	First of all, thank you very much for your support. If you will see opportunities in the future to support government policy in opposition too, I hope that you will certainly do so. I think there are issues where we can find a cross-party political consensus. I welcome the fact that alcohol policy is one of these issues. As regards the secret market and the extent to which the increase in excise duty reduces consumption, I have been very involved in this matter in my life, also as Head of the Committee on Monetary Affairs and Minister for Social Affairs. We are, of course, based on the fact that all forecasts made by the Ministry of Finance on the effects of the increase in excise duty must take into account both the risk of the secret market growing and, hopefully, the decreasing consumption. It is therefore logical that the rising excise duty, which is very rapid, will not increase the collection by exactly the same percentage, as the increase in excise duty will hopefully have a negative impact on consumption. As regards the additional resources of the Tax and Customs Board, this has been on the agenda and we have discussed this with the administration of the Office. We are ready to do this when, at the final stage of the state budget procedure, the Tax and Customs Board wants additional resources for further monitoring of the secret market. But according to current knowledge, the Tax and Customs Board has planned enough measures to keep the secret market under control, and additional resources may not be needed. But I will say once again that there is a readiness. The response of the secret market must also be monitored for each major increase in excise duty. In addition, we must ensure that the other Member States of the European Union in the immediate vicinity of Estonia raise excise duty in the same way. Well, that's a lot to depend on.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U88	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U89	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I also wish you every success in this work, Mr Prime Minister's candidate. But here's my question. I read the coalition agreement several times before I realized what surprised me. Indeed, there is no word for integration. In the previous coalition agreement, there was a whole chapter on integration; it was quite long and thorough. It dealt with all kinds of minority cultures, cultural identities, our favourite topic, or a single media space, etc. As a Russian, I'm asking if you're really gonna leave us alone.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U90	Thank you. The fact that coalition agreements are more extensive immediately after the elections is quite common practice. However, we have 15 pages of very close text, where a lot of topics have been thoroughly examined. If you do not find what is of interest to you on a particular subject, it may well mean that we are not planning major changes. Coherence between societies, including Estonians with different mother tongues, is certainly very important. After all, everything we do is for all the people of Estonia. That's what I said in my speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U91	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U92	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Prime Minister's candidate! You have spoken in at least one of your interviews about how the ministers of the new government will rule. You also touched on this subject today. You have stressed several times that they will lead the fields, not the ministries. I have a two-way question. Firstly, can you explain, in an example in one area, what this governance means? Second of all, who's gonna run the ministries?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U93	Thank you. Ministries will continue to be governed by ministers; simply, areas may not always be rigidly aligned with the boundaries of ministries. This means, for example, that in the Ministry of Social Affairs, where there are three major areas, the largest is social welfare, the second is health care, and the third is the field of work, two ministers work in parallel, one in the field of social welfare and the other in the area of health and work. Both ministers are under the authority of the Vice-Chancellors and the staff in this field, the Chancellor and the Support Departments serve both ministers equally. It is a somewhat unaccustomed concept in Estonia, where we are used to the ministry house being the one by which life is formed, and this house is, in particular, physically, not in the sense of officials working there. I believe that this more modern and dynamic approach will become our own, just as it has become our own for Finns and Swedes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U94	Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U95	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister-designate! Your performance gave me a different impression than an old sportsman who, over the years, has come to believe how good he was in the old days. But my question is about alcohol policy. The Social Democrats have submitted proposals for changes in excise duty during the state budget procedure. Their proposals provide for the harmonisation of excise duties on lean and strong alcohol. The tax revenue would be EUR 60 to 80 million, according to different estimates. Was this harmonisation discussed during the coalition negotiations? If so, why did these proposals not come into the coalition agreement and is there a risk or a presumption that they will still be there?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U96	Thank you. First of all, I must say that I am very flattered when I, as a humble sports enthusiast, can make the Olympic winner Erki Arrow look like a sportsman. It really honors me. But more seriously, there was also a possibility on the table to lift excise duty slower and beer excise duty faster. However, we agreed that this would take place in a proportionate manner. My personal position on this matter is well known to all of you, because I have said it repeatedly. The fact that very much strong alcohol is being drunk in Estonia is a matter of great concern to me. If we increased the share of strong alcohol consumption by introducing a more favourable excise policy for strong alcohol, this would certainly not benefit the health of Estonian people in any way. However, we will be able to deal with one particular product group. It is not explicitly stated in the agreement, but my view is that we could ask the European Union for an exception. This concerns sweet mixed drinks, which are called alcops in the official language. A Member State could have the right to set a separate excise duty rate for them, which could be significantly higher than any other similar beverage.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U97	Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U98	Thank you, Mr President. Good candidate for Prime Minister! In your coalition agreement, you have set the objective of reducing the tax burden on people on low incomes. How many euros will your reforms increase the monthly income of the recipients of the minimum wage?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U99	Thank you. I think we're both capable of raking it out. There are three components: a reduction in income tax, an increase in the tax-free minimum and a reduction in unemployment insurance contributions. I've already mentioned the calculation of the average salary. The impact of an increase in the tax-free minimum on the recipient of the minimum wage is even greater. We can both get it out in euro. But my view is that this should not be the end of the reduction in labour taxes, but should be an intermediate stage.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U100	Sven Sester, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U101	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister's candidate! We have both spoken at length in the Riigikogu on financial matters. I would like to ask some specific questions, mainly in the context of structural balance. In the last few weeks, you, and the current Vice-President of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, Mrs Vasilyev, have also spoken about the fact that we want to maintain a structural balance in the future. The aim of the previous coalition was not a structural balance, but rather a structural surplus, to achieve nominal balance. Have you changed your strategy and rather the fact that the surplus cannot be achieved in the near future? By the way, it is 0.7% now, and by 2016 it has been agreed to reach a surplus of as much as 1%. Would you rather have a level of balance?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U102	Thank you. No, we have not changed the balance targets. The EUR 172.1 million for which we will spend the next year will not change the balance picture either, because this EUR 172.1 million has exactly the same sources of cover. At the same time, it is worth observing what the global economy is doing, because no country, even Estonia, lives in isolation. We all need to look at the spring forecast and the summer economic forecast when making the state budget, and then we need to specify what this exact balance goal is. But to maintain a structural balance is, in my view, extremely important, as is the principle that the country must end up at the end. I am very pleased that this principle has not only reached this hall, but has reached the consciousness of the entire Estonian public. For six years, I've been working in this house pretty hard myself to make it happen. I am pleased that I am also being asked about this in the current role. I assure you that maintaining balance is very important. In fact, money matters are the basis of many other things.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U103	Andrus Island, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U104	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister-designate! I'm going on about the teachers' salary. I am a little sorry that the new coalition has no clarity as to whether and how much teachers' pay will rise, but hopefully it will rise. But I'm asking about support services. The Coalition Agreement states that in the future support services may also be financed from the Teachers' Pay Fund. Redistributing money in itself does not bring more money. The current Minister of Education, known to have requested an additional EUR 3.3 million this year to finance support services, which were supported by local authorities, but this money was not found by the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. The new coalition foresees a cost of EUR 172 million. Does it also include additional funding for general education support services?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U105	Thank you. This EUR 172.1 million includes an increase in the salaries of teachers, cultural workers, internal security workers, health workers, social workers and very many other people in public budgets or taxpayers' pockets. However, we have not already put in place any additional requests from the state budget. This debate, which all ministers hold with the Minister of Finance every summer, also lies before us. It's a perfectly natural course of action. However, I would refrain from such assessments that the Minister of Finance did not find the money or that he was not willing to give the money. The role of the Minister of Finance is that he must have an adequate overview of the possibilities of the taxpayer's wallet, he must report it to all ministers in the field, and he must seek solutions with them and, if necessary, bring differences to the table of the cabinet. Therefore, there is no reason to assume that the Minister of Finance is the bad person who did not find money for one thing or another. If it did not find the money, then it was not feasible for the taxpayer's wallet at the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U106	Enn Frontland, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U107	Thank you very much. Honourable Prime Minister-designate! Since we have a job interview going on in essence and form, I'm asking you how rich your experience is at international level. As Prime Minister, you must represent Estonia at many meetings, starting with the Council. Are there any of the heads of state and prime ministers who will meet you in Brussels who will say, 'Behold, Taavi, you are here too! '? Or are you facing an introduction round at this level?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U108	Thank you. There are certainly those prime ministers who tell me that you are here or something, either in English or in Finnish. I am sure that the Dutch Prime Minister, with whom I have encountered many times, will be among them. It can be assumed that the Finnish Prime Minister is among them. I was familiar with the previous Prime Minister of Latvia, and I will probably be acquainted with the present one very soon. Speaking of my experience of external communication, the work in Parliament, where I was in the Committee on European Union Affairs from the first moment and the last year and a half as the head of this committee, as well as the work as a minister, when I participated in parallel in the two Councils of the European Union, the Labour and Social Affairs Council, the EPSCO and the Council of Health Ministers, make it quite clear. At all the tables around which Council meetings are held, whether in Brussels or elsewhere, I have been sitting before. There is no reason to believe that this role is too new for me. At the same time, I admire the network of contacts between the current Prime Minister and the current Minister of Foreign Affairs. I am absolutely sure that their personal contacts have been very useful for Estonia, and I hope that they will be very useful in the future. That was the right question, because personal relations play a very important role in external communication.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U109	Marika Tuus-Laul, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U110	Thank you. Honourable Prime Minister-designate! I see this government gives with one hand and takes with the other. Child benefits are rising, but you are also raising excise duties on gas and also fuel fuelers will have to pay more excise duty. I see a price race ahead of me. Income tax will fall by 1%, but the wealthiest of it will be the wealthy ones. There is also a great deal to be won by companies that withdraw dividends. Child benefit is not going to be paid by the poorest, as the amount is still included in the income support. I see that the contribution of the wealthy is still relatively small. Why do you not want to change anything in principle, even though there are social democrats in the government now? I don't see a change of direction, I see one thing being replaced by another. They still take money out of people's pockets.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U111	Thank you. It is true that with one hand we give to families with children and with the other hand we charge alcohol with a higher excise duty. It's true. The effect of the gas excise rise on the gas bill is within 1%, which is actually quite marginal. With regard to support for those most in need of state support, I, too, have read inaccurate information in the newspapers. It is important to know that, in addition to the surge in child benefits and the fastest growth in benefits for families most in need of public support, there is a significant increase in the subsistence limit for families with children. If so far the second, third, fourth, fifth family member has gone to the limit of subsistence into factor 0.8, then our plan is to make the children's coefficient equivalent to the coefficient of the first member of the family from the beginning of next year. This is a very concrete step that reduces poverty in families with children and improves their livelihood. I believe that this is a fundamental emphasis when we take money from consumers of alcohol and tobacco and give it to families with children. You're saying it's giving up with one hand and taking it with the other. That's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U112	Aivar Chef, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U113	Good manager! Good candidate for Prime Minister! How many times did you stress in your report and answers that there was a need for cover for EUR 172.1 million? When you spoke in our group, you said that the money that is missing due to a 1% reduction in personal income tax is not in there, perhaps more than 70 million euros still need to be covered. Can you tell me where that cover's coming from?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U114	Thank you. A good questioner must have misunderstood me. EUR 172,1 million is not covered, but EUR 172.1 million is covered. Similarly, there is a cover and was already in place before the government union agreement was concluded for all the things provided for in the existing laws, including the cover for the 1% reduction in income tax. Yes, it will have an additional impact of EUR 172,1 million. Yes, its impact was included in the budget base even before the talks started to form a government union. There's a cover for all the new steps. You don't have to worry about that.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U115	Siim Kabrits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U116	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister's candidate! The situation is complicated and Estonia does not live in isolation, as you have said several times in your answers and speeches. The situation in the economy can become very difficult. If something happens in our main export markets, what happens then? In 2008 and 2009, the state had reserves, now not. If the Ministry of Finance's economic forecast for the following year before the adoption of the state budget for the following year shows that there is no money, will you give up your election promises or let the state budget go to deficit?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U117	Thank you. The description of the future of Estonia in such black tones is quite rare. The monetary affairs of the Estonian state are in very good shape now, and if I ever pass on a stick, they will be in just as good shape. As I have repeatedly pointed out, monetary matters are the basis of a great many other things. As far as exports are concerned, in order to promote this, we not only have a large number of programming positions, but we are going to create a special ministerial post for this. It's an important signal. I know that you, as a Member of this House, have supported this idea in the past.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U118	Lauri Laasi, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U119	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable candidate for Prime Ministership! The previous prime minister candidate of the Reform Party, Siim Kallas, announced at the General Assembly of the Reform Party that at least some public enterprises should be privatized. What is your position on whether or not to privatise Eesti Energia, Eesti Lootsi and other state companies?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U120	Thank you. As you have now proposed, Mr Kallas has never, as far as I know, submitted a list, and in this format this issue has not been on the agenda either. It is quite easy to identify which companies must definitely be publicly owned. It must be in the strategic interests of the Estonian state, security interests or economic interests. At the same time, for some companies, it is certainly worth considering whether they must be State-owned, for example, in ten years' time. I call for a public debate on this issue and an open reflection on it. But the plan is that we're definitely gonna sell something off right now isn't.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U121	Esther Tuiksoo, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U122	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Taavi Clothes, I wish you every success in your upcoming new post. I would like to tell you that this success is even greater if you value rural and agricultural life. Don't put an Estonian farmer in an unequal competitive situation, for example, compared to Latvians! The Latvian Prime Minister is, of course, a person with a very strong agricultural policy background. However, one point of the coalition agreement states that strategic plans for South-East Estonia will be launched. Would you open up what you mean by that? What exactly is that supposed to mean?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U123	Thank you. South-East Estonia's strategy is somewhat similar to that of Ida-Viru County. I have been asked if it would not be possible to make a strategic development plan for a few more regions. My answer is, why not? If the state, together with local governments and people living on the ground, is analysing how to give one region or another an acceleration of development, I think it is positive. Whether and how much a specific strategy will affect life is illustrated by time. As far as agriculture and rural development are concerned, although I have not been in the office of the Minister of Agriculture, this does not mean that I, too, do not consider the stuff produced in the Estonian field, in the barn and in the food industry to be close to the heart and life on land in the broadest sense, I do not mean only agriculture to the top.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U124	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, One of the members of your future government, namely the Minister of Infrastructure, has predicted the loss of Estonian Air to the Estonian airline. He's thought this company was going bankrupt. He was not yet a member of the government to put that point out. But I ask you if you share his position and if what he says is the position of your government. What future do you see for Estonian Air?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U126	Thank you. I understood this video interview so Urve Palo is concerned about the future of Estonian Air. He also said that there was work to be done to secure the future of Estonian Air. He's right about that. I believe that not only Urve Palo, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, but the whole government is committed to ensuring that the economic situation of Estonian Air gradually improves and that passengers and, in fact, all of us have confidence that our own airline has a future and its future is successful, to grow.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U127	Kalev Kallo, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U128	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister's candidate! I'm gonna ask you again about tax exemptions. It can be considered from the Coalition Agreement that the preferential excise duty on specially labelled fuel remains in force for agriculture and fishing on recreational vessels. It does not say here that it will remain on the railroad, that is, the preferential excise duty on the railroad will disappear. Has it also been discussed with industry or, as has been done before, is it simply being taken away, regardless of what businesses think about it or what situation it puts them in?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U129	Thank you. Before the amendments become legal, it is important to ask for the opinion of the sector's operators. In a number of specific cases, we have already talked about private households, the tax credit must be replaced by more precise support schemes. We have been saying that we could also follow this aspect when, for example, subsidising passenger train traffic. What are these support schemes that use taxpayers' money more precisely than has been the case so far, this is indicated by time. Naturally, the views of the sector, as well as those of the public, are being asked.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U130	Tarmo Tamm, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U131	Thank you, manager. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister's candidate! I would call your government an analytical government, because you are analyzing what is currently being done by the municipalities, what the state is doing and what the county governments are doing. This is, of course, an interesting approach. I don't know what country in Estonia is unknown to you. But that's not the only point. In addition, you are also analysing how to tax foreign companies' profits. What's there to analyze? It is known that the profits are quite high, 100 million, 200 million or more. An amendment to the tax law would be needed. What are you analyzing here?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U132	Thank you. Without analysis, making fundamental decisions doesn't seem very smart or responsible. There are issues where a simple solution may not seem as simple or fair after a thorough consideration of the subject. Therefore, we are fully consciously analysing a number of important issues in order to mark the importance of these issues. Based on the answer that analysis provides, as always, a wise decision is made.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U133	Ülo Tulik, second question. Sorry again! Andres Jalak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U134	Thank you, Mr President. Good candidate for Prime Minister! In the coalition agreement, you have a plan to develop the ownership policy of state-owned companies. Only recently, the working group led by Erkki Raasukes made a number of constructive proposals. Wouldn't it be good for the new coalition to start making a new plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U135	Thank you. Whenever possible, we try to be consistent. What deserves to be taken over, it has to be taken over. But the owner's policy is that I have very vivid memories of the time of crisis when it was agreed in the cabinet that state companies should also show solidarity with society and cut costs. Some companies did so with punctuality and some gave up at all. A more coherent and perhaps more transparent approach is certainly in the interests of taxpayers or the owners of these companies.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U136	Ülo Tulik, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U137	Thank you, President of the sitting. Dear Taavi in the garment! In your reply to Mr Aivar Koka, you indicated that the new government coalition has a plan to compensate individual house owners for their investments in oil heating. It is known that there are several settlements where the central boiler house works in oil-fired conditions and warms up the entire settlement. Do you intend to pay compensation to the local authorities that own the boiler houses? In fact, they are also owned by private operators.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U138	Thank you. It is more accurate to say that this plan is working and we have an idea of how this could be done. There are also different solutions for district heating. In the case of domestic boilers, it is essential to replace the heating system. On the basis of what I know about this subject, I can say that in certain cases it is possible to use different fuels in the same boiler. But I think that explanation would be too specific. This plan will certainly be developed so that the end result is more sustainable energy use, so that both money and nature are saved.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U139	Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U140	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister's candidate! At the beginning of the year, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi sent a letter to the ministries, which provided for considerable savings. This mainly concerned the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Education and Research. The amount was approximately EUR 56 million. Has this plan remained the same now, or how much is planned to change the financial situation of the ministries?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U141	Thank you. It is not true that this would have been more relevant to these two ministries, which concerned the proportion of non-calculable expenditure in all ministries in proportion. Part of this savings is certainly feasible without the ministries actually suffering in their daily operation without having to make cuts that would hurt. Some of this is a question of more precise financial management, while others are a question of reviewing certain expenditures that have become too routine. According to my memory, this plan was initially EUR 54 million, which was probably too ambitious. The real amount is about 15 million euros. This EUR 15 million does not mean that any fundamental function should be cut down painfully. This is the kind of thing that makes the functioning of the country more effective, and we have also included EUR 15 million in our plans.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U142	Echo Kreisman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U143	Good chairman of the sitting! Good Taavi in Clothes! The new coalition promises to consider moving the Academy of Interior to Ida-Virumaa. The previous coalition also considered this serious step very carefully. Almost all aspects that could be considered were: costs, regional policy aspects and security aspects. It was also discussed whether there would be sufficient faculty and students in the institution. As a result of this debate, two different conclusions were reached: the IRL considered it necessary to move, and the Reform Party considered that this was not possible. Now the new coalition will reconsider. What will this time be considered and when will it end?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U144	Thank you. The same things will be considered this time. We need to be clear and we all need to be clear. The weighing will stop when the decision is made in favour of Ida-Virumaa, Tallinn or Muraste. As you well know, there are several options. I've been to Muraste myself and I've seen the investments made there. I have a personal position on this issue, but I accept that this issue should be discussed very thoroughly in a government union, without cramps or taboos, and the best decision taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U145	Liisa-Ly Pakosta, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U146	Thank you, good manager. Good Javier! Can you explain why, according to Statistics Estonia, families with more than two children in families at the highest risk of poverty are raising child benefit to only EUR 4.1 per child compared to today? At the same time, you intend to reduce the pension of mothers and fathers who have raised children by 4.7 euros per month compared to the current legislation. Where did the thought come from to go after the gentlest people?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U147	Thank you. Let's still look at things in context. The first child allowance shall be EUR 45, the second child allowance shall be EUR 45 and the third child allowance shall be EUR 100. There's a significant difference. This will be complemented by support for families most in need of state support. In any case, the benefits for all families will increase significantly. According to the current law, the allowance for the third child and the next child is also EUR 76 in round terms. There's going to be a considerable rise here. In addition, I repeat that families with the greatest difficulties in coping receive income support. In addition to the very significant rise in child support, it is important that the income limit is taken into account above all for children. The aim of all these steps is to improve the livelihood of Estonian families.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U148	Kaia Iva, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U149	Thank you. Clearly, it is not possible to enter into a coalition agreement all the things in the world. You've referred to it yourself here today. The weirder thing is that you've put some stuff in there that's long since existed. For example, the entrepreneur's day that you emphasised in your speech, but which already exists in Estonia. At least seven years has been the first week of October, even the week of entrepreneurs and entrepreneurship. There's probably nothing new here. I hope that there will be no parallel business day. But here's the question. We have talked about revenue-costs and sources of coverage. But please answer the two-part question specifically. Will national reserves increase or decrease in 2015 and will the country's loan burden increase or decrease in the same year?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U150	Thank you. I've said it many times already, but I'm going to say it again. The plans of the incoming government do not change the balance in any way. What will be the state of 2015 depends much more on what the real economic situation is like in our plans. One thing that is certain, we maintain a structural balance, we do not grow prosperity at the expense of future generations. If anyone can do this, I think we can. I am very pleased that the IRL has respected these same principles, and I am sincerely grateful to you. I very much hope that this proposal, which came in the meantime from the Committee on Social Affairs, to adopt a draft, which will generate EUR 108 million in costs, for which no one gram of sources of cover were foreseen, was an accident at work, that it did not express a change of principles. I very much hope that if you make proposals in the future to increase the cost of the budget, you will foresee worthy sources of cover for them. I think that's exactly what you're doing. We have taken care of Estonia's finances together long enough. I believe that you will continue this policy in any case.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U151	Yana Toom, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U152	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable Prime Minister-designate! My question concerns citizenship, language and national policy. You provide that applicants over 65 years of age must only pass an oral language examination. As we know, in order to gain Estonian citizenship, it is necessary to pass the B1 level exam in Estonian. What difference does it make if I pass this exam orally or in writing if the requirements are the same?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U153	Thank you. We have basically different concepts here. I understand, obviously, that you believe that the foundations of citizenship policy should be changed and the language requirements relaxed. We say that the foundations of citizenship policy will not be changed, but we will, in certain respects, approach things more humanly than has been done so far. The fact that people over 65 years of age must speak Estonian at the level you mentioned when taking the Estonian citizenship exam is important to us. But the way this important exam is done can be made more humane and understandable. That's our plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U154	Viktor Vassilyev, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U155	Thank you, Mr President. Good candidate for Prime Minister! Of course, I carefully read the 11 points in the health section of the Coalition Agreement. Of course, I could ask you a question about every line here, but it would be the Lord's sun before I could finish it. I will just take one point, item 21, and read it out: 'We are working on ways to improve the availability of dental care for children, older people and persons with reduced working capacity. 'It is an action programme that provides for action such as 'we are considering ways of improving something'. Okay, it's what it is. It's not an activity to consider options. But those people who have the biggest problems with their teeth are not children and older people, but people of working age aged 30 to 50. Will dental care for those who are adults, able to work, and not in prison be compensated?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U156	Thank you. As a member of the Board of Health Insurance, you are very well aware that an increase in dental care benefits based on needs or in some respects rehabilitation on a need-based basis is also provided for in the Health Insurance Fund's action plan in such a way that it is necessary to analyse who needs this benefit most and what level of compensation will help people most. It is these tests that we intend to take into account. It is essential that oral health and health are improved more widely and that people live a more productive life. I am very concerned when people who should go to the dentist give it up because it is beyond their reach. Tackling this problem does not necessarily mean outright support, which is very, very expensive for the budget of the Health Insurance Fund, but it means precisely that we are looking to help those most in need.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U157	Annely Akkermann, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U158	Thank you very much. With my previous question, I referred to the very possibility that the increase in alcohol duty might not result in a reduction in alcohol consumption, but rather in a reduction in the official sales of alcohol and the collection of excise duty. You rightly pointed out that we cannot change our alcohol excise policy so that it is very different from that of neighbouring countries. Currently, the high and low excise border runs along the Gulf of Finland. You said that there was a need to agree with neighbouring countries. How are you going to get an agreement with Latvia and Russia? If you can't, how are you going to hedge those risks?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U159	Thank you. Above all, we still have to agree with the countries with which we share a free trade zone, or those who are our neighbours in the European Union. You rightly mentioned Latvia. I have had quite a conversation with the Latvian Minister for Health on these issues. The Latvians also want to increase alcohol excise duty. To what extent exactly, this is already the decision of the Latvian Parliament and the Latvian people. But the fact that the increase in excise duty reduces alcohol consumption is quite scientifically proven. All kinds of studies carried out in many countries have confirmed this. We do not even have to look very far; we look at Estonia's experience in times of crisis. In 2009 and 2010, when people's income decreased and we increased alcohol duty relatively quickly, alcohol consumption actually decreased. We would like to repeat this result.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U160	Eldar Efendiev, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U161	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Prime Minister's candidate! My questions are about coalition agreements. Mr Viktor Vassilyev pointed out that part of the new coalition agreement was declarative. I would not like to assess whether it is appropriate to make such an agreement with the declarative parts for a year. But the previous coalition agreement, on the basis of which the budget for this year had also been made, has in many ways not been reflected in the new coalition agreement. What about the topicalities of the issues and areas that have been pushed into this year or so?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U162	Erki Arrow, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U163	Thank you. The fact that we do not necessarily repeat all things that continue was a conscious choice. As far as the previous coalition agreement is concerned, it must be acknowledged that a very large part of it has already been implemented. It wouldn't make sense to say it all over again.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U164	Thank you. Honourable Prime Minister-designate! The cross-border movement of patients started this year, but there is no internal movement of patients. Since the coalition agreement envisages investing in the development of the University of Tartu Hospital and the Northern Estonian Regional Hospital, it will probably not be soon under their leadership. Is this a step to reject or silence private medicine a little? Secondly, the most expensive subject, or personal medicine based on genetic engineering, in itself means that blood is taken from the finger and placed in the refrigerator. What, though, if a doctor receives about a hundred people a day?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U165	Thank you. Point 17 of the health chapter and, in part, point 18 include exactly what the good questioner mentioned, i.e. increasing the free movement of Estonian patients within the Estonian state. As Minister of Social Affairs, I myself have stood for these opportunities to expand in the future. I very much hope that we can take action in this area. In the opinion of Estonian people, problem 1 in health care is too long queues. I described my programme views in February, if I remember correctly, in the article 'Seven Steps to Faster Treatment' in the Postman of 18 February. I am still in these positions. I believe that it is in the interests of Estonian patients if free movement also applies within Estonia, but it has to be done wisely, it has to be done step by step so that we do not overwhelm functioning structures. As regards the conversion of the University of Tartu Hospital and PERH into centres of excellence, this is definitely necessary for Estonia. For certain things in healthcare, free competition on market principles cannot function, such as major accidents, multiple traumas, oncology and many other things. In such cases, it is very important that Estonia has top hospitals where people can be treated and treated in a quality manner.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U166	Marko Pomerants, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U167	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good answer! I'm gonna cut down on my sarcasm for tonight. I'm gonna save something for the future. My question is under 'Sport'. There is also a real-life problem here, at least alongside other problems, which concerns the issue of scholarships in sport. As a person with a sharp mind and a quick response, you have said that your government intends to manage the definition of a scholarship and to decide in which cases it is applicable and which it is not. Is it possible for you today, more or less, to open your personal view of the direction in which this idea could proceed according to the Prime Minister's logic and at what time?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U168	Thank you. I believe that we have a reasonable basis for this work, which has already been done. We have been together and discussed a great deal. There are very specific issues, such as coaching categories. I believe that if you go ahead with what is planned, it will improve the situation and that young or child trainers will be able to obtain social guarantees.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U169	Peter Laurson, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U170	Thank you, Mr President. Good candidate for Prime Minister! You're tightening up the fight against tax fraud. To this end, you want to impose additional burdens on businesses by declaring transactions of more than EUR 1000. The President has already rejected this law once, precisely because of the disproportionate nature of this measure. In fact, when this bill enters into force as a law, individual cheaters simply have to walk around naked to discover it. Who will take responsibility and make up for the damage if the revenue planned by this draft is not achieved, but businesses are again being penalised by red tape and increased costs?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U171	Thank you. It's pretty interesting that you're the one asking me that question. I remember very well this meeting of the cabinet in September when we discussed this subject. I remember very well what the positions of the IRL ministers were and what the views of your group's representative were. Our common conviction was that the fight against tax fraud is important to Estonia, which helps to keep the tax burden under control. This is also important for businesses, as they lose the most when a competitor cheats. This issue has been subject to a very thorough review in this Parliament and fundamental understanding has been reached. That is why I am sincerely surprised at the fact that this question has been raised in this form, because I have still believed and hope that the fight against tax fraud and ensuring fair competition for all Estonian entrepreneurs is an interest of all of us, of every member of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U172	Kadri Simson, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U173	Thank you. Dear Taavi in the garment! When you take office as Prime Minister, you will receive a great many laws that have been passed during the previous government coalition. I understand that, in your view, most of them are very good laws. My question concerns the basic school and upper secondary school law. We held night sessions with the Social Democrats less than a year ago against this law. This law also mentions that every county centre must have a state secondary school. Your coalition agreement mentions only those counties for which written agreements have been concluded, and in the case of the rest, you leave the ends in the water. Are there plans to amend the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act? If not, why don't you tell me what will happen in those counties where the Ministry of State Gymnasium has not yet signed a state gymnasium agreement?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U174	Thank you. I consider it very important that the Estonian state is consistent and every new government continues where the previous one left off. As regards this point, where we specifically mention upper secondary schools, it is directly related to which Estonian cities can achieve real results in the course of the year. There's nothing else to read out of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U175	Siim Kabrits, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U176	Thank you. Dear Taavi in the garment! I am pleased that the new coalition has turned its face towards exporters and is trying to help them in any way. There will also be a place for the Minister for Foreign Trade, which I sincerely welcome, unlike many of my party associates. My question concerns this minister's person. Is this candidate known? It should not be just any person who fills this place, but it should be useful to Estonian entrepreneurs. Alexander Stubb's good work in Finland can be compared. Our minister should do the same kind of work. Who is this candidate?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U177	Thank you. Yeah, that candidate's known. This is a very dignified candidate and I am quite convinced that he will work for the benefit of Estonian exporting companies. I don't think there's much more than an hour before that name is published. I believe you will understand when I say that, first, his candidacy will be discussed by the Bureau of the Reform Party, which has a statutory obligation to approve all ministers nominated by the Reform Party, and then, of course, we will share this name with other parliamentary parties and the general public. But it's a dignified candidate. At all, the people of the government who are already known are also very strong ministers. I'm pretty sure the whole government is well-functioning, active and professional.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U178	Priit Toobal, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U179	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, According to the Coalition Agreement, a Member may in the future also belong to a local government council. This is a fundamental change compared to the current system. As I recall, the Reform Party has previously voted in favour of the fact that members of the Riigikogu may not belong to a local government council. What are the arguments why the Reform Party decided the other way around?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U180	Thank you. The desire to keep Members in touch with their home and the review of previous positions is, in any case, important. Personally, I'm quite glad we're creating this opportunity. Whether and how many Members of Parliament will work as members of the Council at the same time, time will show that. I believe that communication with the home government is positive in any case.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U181	Kaja Kreisman, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U182	Thank you. The plan is to separate the oil shale resources of the state from Eesti Energia. Oil shale resources are currently known to belong to the state and oil shale is extracted on the basis of mining permits. In my opinion, this separation could only mean removing mining permits. If this is the plan, will the permits be withdrawn only from Eesti Energia or separated from these resources by VKG, Kunda Nordic Cement and Kiviõli Chemical Industry?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U183	Thomas Tõniste, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U184	Thank you. No, it certainly doesn't mean taking off the mining permits. It is also one of the issues that the government union that is creating wants to consider thoroughly. It is worth reading this plan as it is recorded in the covenant, and as such, it is worth understanding it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U185	Good candidate for Prime Minister! The Action Plan of the Temporary Coalition is intended to tax life-saving and health-damaging habits. We've talked a lot about the increase in alcohol duty. We've heard what a good idea it is and how much it's worth. At the same time, health - damaging habits include overeating and lying on the couch in front of the TV, causing obesity. What new taxes await us here?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U186	Thank you. There's no TV tax planned, it could be pretty peaceful about that. But the truth is, in addition to alcoholism and smoking, obesity is also a growing problem. In Estonia, it has not yet reached a level that is as worrying as in Europe, but it is a growing trend. I do not think that this problem must necessarily be resolved through taxes. On the contrary. But it is worth keeping a healthy diet in focus, both for us and for society as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U187	Margus Tsahkna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U188	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Prime Minister-designate! I have a matter of value in response to all these detailed questions concerning the coalition agreement. I suggest you think once before you answer. Do you see a person on your team as a minister who has openly lied or made false claims?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U189	Thank you. I've been thinking about every answer before. But as far as I know, there are no such people among the ministerial candidates. If you have any other information, I'm sure you'll let me know.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U190	Mart Nutt, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Prime Minister-designate! The coalition's action plan states in the third point on defence: "We confirm Estonia's continued readiness to participate in allied responsibilities and peace-building missions under the auspices of NATO, the UN and the European Union. ' At the same time, your coalition partner has previously been critical of Estonia's participation in the mission in the Central African Republic. This position has even been expressed by the chairman of the party. The previous government had the view that Estonia was taking part in this mission. Will this be the case, or will changes be foreseen here?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U192	Aivar Riisalu, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U193	Thank you. I think it is reasonable to ask the chairman of the coalition partner himself. But we do agree that the protection of the Estonian state is very important. It is also very important that Estonia, as an international partner, fulfils its obligations and also contributes to international security.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U194	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Javier! We all see what is happening around us, and we realise that it will certainly have an impact on the economy as well. During the coalition negotiations, when you wrote about a few hundred million euros of expenditure into the state budget with a relatively optimistic setting, did you think that suddenly an additional budget would have to be made this year and suddenly even a negative sign? Did the coalition talks go through that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U195	Thank you. I don't know what gives you the impression that there was some sort of sparkling at the coalition talks. In fact, there was some very serious work going on over a long period of days. As I said, from day one, all the planned costs were also covered. Might be pretty cool right now. There's a cover on every expense you've planned.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U196	Tõnis Palts, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U197	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. But if you'll just ask Riisalu to shut up for a second, I can talk.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U198	Ladies and gentlemen, we will allow Mr Palts to ask a question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U199	Ladies and gentlemen, My question is an addition to Peter Laurson's question. How do you explain that the management of a solid business organisation, which has a reform party background, does not realise that the 1000 euro declaration commitment you have proposed is beneficial to them?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U200	Thank you for your question. I am forced to answer a question similar to that of Peter Laurson in a similar way. I remember very precisely these discussions in the government office, during which we came to this solution. There were several very prominent members of the IRL, at least one of them is still in this Chamber. Our common interest and desire was not to make tax declarations more difficult, but to ensure that honest entrepreneurs, or the lion's share of all businesses, should not suffer because there is someone out there who plays by other unfair rules. Companies themselves have said that something must be done by playing unfairly with competitors. This measure will help to make Estonia's life fairer, according to experts. I believe that society as a whole will benefit from this, and businesses will win the most if no one next to them plays by dishonest rules anymore.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U201	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U202	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, I had a little work accident. Instead of listening to you, I had to communicate with the voters. That's what happened. I'll never forgive myself, because probably those two hours here were very useful. Why am I talking about this? I was asked to ask you a question, but some sort of analogous question might have sounded. I apologize in advance! You were in the coalition with the IRL, whose election promise was 'Home expenses' down! '. Are you taking part in this promise, or have this promise died with the death of the previous coalition, you are white and hairy, and you are not responsible for that promise?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U203	Thank you. I don't think talking to voters is an accident at work. I'm sure that was the right thing to do. I believe that we all have reason to keep in touch with the voters. But when it comes to whose promises I think are important, I believe that this is not very important. I guess each party has its own promises and its own mandate, which they have received in the parliamentary elections, with the support of these promises. It is very important that each party should be guided precisely by the mandate they have received. IRL and I have had mutual understandings and disagreements. I am sure that we also have programmed differences with the Social Democrats, but I am pleased that this joint part that we have found has proved to be very large. On this basis, we intend to lead Estonia, not according to any third promises.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U204	Urbo Vaarmann, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U205	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister's candidate! The press has been saying that the new government coalition will abolish the additional income tax exemption calculated since the second child. Is that really the case, or has it been more media noise?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U206	Thank you. This was the assumption of one of your colleagues in the Riigikogu, which did not prove true. So you could say it's noise. It is not media noise, because it was made in an opinion article by only one Member, but it is in any case noise.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U207	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U208	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good candidate for Prime Minister! You have many good plans, and I too will soon support your government by pressing the button. But do you have a plan for this, too, in the case of an underskilled, to say the least, but a super-agarish minister? How are you going to control him? In life, it often happens that, sorry for the expression, someone stupid and super-agar is screwing up their plans.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U209	Thank you, good Lembit Rockvee! I am very grateful in advance for this support. I am convinced that all members of my future cabinet, provided that you, honourable Parliament, give us a mandate, are professionals and are based on the interests of the Estonian state and people.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U210	Mikhail Stalnukhin, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U211	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I am always pleased when our opinions coincide, because it provides an opportunity for constructive cooperation. We agreed today that communicating with voters is more important than communicating with members of the government. I totally agree with you, and that's great. But I still want an answer. Are you in this slogan 'Home expenses down! ', by which came to power and formed a coalition, and which were regularly repeated during the first two years of your reign, you are now completely disengaging? Don't you feel your responsibility for using this slogan by one of the parties to the previous government coalition? For you, has it never existed or will exist in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U212	Thank you. I am also pleased that we have finally found this joint section because, on world-view issues, we have a relatively difficult common part to find, if not to say that it is very difficult. But I, too, consider it to be close to my heart that energy savings are used to lower home expenses and so nature is saved. That's what I believe in.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U213	Ene Ergma, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U214	Thank you very much, manager. Good candidate for Prime Ministership! I have a general question. In your opinion, governance is better when more ministers are made. Well, there's a lot more to make. But don't you think the real problem is that there is no horizontal cooperation between ministries? This is a much more serious problem. If you try to solve the problem'vertically' and make more ministerial seats, the ministers will still, as they say, remain, each one of their castles and do not act together.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U215	Thank you. I very much agree with that. The real content of this more flexible and dynamic governance model is not a higher number of ministers, but that it does not have to be rigidly stuck within the boundaries of the ministries, the important political choices are a matter for all members of the government, not for one house or another (it has been called a silo with a certain ridicule). I very much hope that this more modern model, which, apart from foreign experts, has recommended to us by our own experts in constitutional law, will really work as I believe it will. I hope that the governance of the Estonian state will become more dynamic than this and will work even better, and that Estonia's circumstances will also improve.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U216	Juku-Kalle Raid, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U217	Thank you, Nestor with the tie! Good candidate for Prime Minister! It is very interesting to hear you talk about the coalition of the Sots and Reform Party, which does not have a world-view joint section, that you do not need to think that you are going to win the elections one year after the elections, that you have a plan A, you win the elections, etc. But how do you even know you're gonna win the election? Are you familiar with the Estonian electoral laws? If not, then it is good to come to a meeting in KuKu Club tomorrow (I also sent you an invitation) in case Mart Nut and I left the Riigikogu. We can explain the Estonian electoral laws to you there. You shouldn't know if you're gonna win next year's election or not. Then how do you know?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U218	I know for a fact that we are going to work on this every day. But not only to win the elections, but also to win the elections, which is even more important for Estonia to develop and be a place for all Estonian people to live. I really believe that if you do your job well, there will also be support for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U219	Margus Tsahkna, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U220	Thank you, good Chairman. I thank you, Prime Minister, for all the answers you have given here. But it turns out I'm not the last person to ask. I am asking about a subject that has always been on the table in the Committee on Social Affairs. Your coalition has decided to establish a Minister for Social Welfare. At the same time, setting standards for social welfare services and making these services available to all people has for years been behind the lack of administrative reform and the reform of local authorities' capacity. If one very good person is appointed Minister for Social Welfare, do you think it will be possible for him to do anything in 11 months other than give priority to the subject?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U221	Thank you. I would point out that the field of work of this minister is quite broad, not social work in the narrowest sense, but actually in a very broad sense. I also agree with the assessment that this is a very good person. The three of us have worked together in the Riigikogu. He's just the right person to deal with these issues. As far as the capacity of local authorities is concerned, I believe that this can be facilitated. This is supported by very large amounts of UCITS money. I myself, as Minister of Social Affairs, have done well to ensure that many social services in local governments can be brought to a new level. I am glad that good people continue this work. I guess I'll put my shoulder down if I can.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U222	Andres Herkel, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U223	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr. Clothes! Are you going to change the funding system for political parties and what proposals of the national assembly are you going to realise? Juku-Kalle Raid kindly offered the opportunity to educate you on electoral laws tomorrow night. I hope he does. But do you support the distribution of compensation mandates, not according to the list, but according to the weight of the votes received?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U224	Thank you. Everything that concerns greater competition in policy has been summarised in the chapter 'Democracy and inclusion'. One very fundamental step here is certainly that those parties who are running for the first time in Parliament do not have to make bail. This means that the financial barrier will be significantly reduced and thus political competition will increase. Another major change is that we will also allow individual candidates to become elected to Parliament, just as it is in the case of lists of political parties, even if 0.75 quotas are fulfilled. I think it has a fundamental weight because it increases the chances of individual candidates. These points, which hopefully increase competition in Estonian politics, as well as inclusion and transparency, are quite a large sum. I think there's a lot of work here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U225	Prime Minister candidate Taavi Rõivas, members of the Riigikogu have no further questions for you. Please take a seat in a chair reserved for a member of the government. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I will put to the final vote the mandate of candidate Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas to form a government. Please take a stand and vote. 55 votes to 36 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The Riigikogu has decided to give the Prime Minister's candidate Taavi Rõivas the power to form a government. [[Let's hear it. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U226	Good fellows! After the hammer hit, I ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to perform in a free microphone to register! I would like the Riigikogu's speech chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin! I'll take the manager's break for two minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U227	The chairman's recess is over. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U228	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I might not have come here, but the international sociological study published by Win/Gallup International just shocked me. I never would have believed anything like that. To begin with, I must say that this survey was carried out at the end of last year and 70000 people from 65 countries took part in it. The inhabitants of these countries make up three quarters of the world's population. In this study, people were asked which country they considered to be the greatest threat to peace in the world. The result was this. For example, the first place in North and South America was the United States with 22%, the second place was Iran with 11%, followed by North Korea with 8%, and Afghanistan and Iraq with 7%. Africa was the only place where some other country, not the United States, was declared the most dangerous country. Somalia was considered to be such a country (22%), while the United States was the second country with 10%. Afghanistan, Iraq and South Africa came further, all of whom received 7 to 8% of the votes. Almost the same was repeated in the rest of the world. In the Middle East, the United States was leading with 33%, which is a staggering advantage. In Western Europe, the first was the United States with 14%, Iran (13%) and Syria (10%) were the second and third highest. In Eastern Europe, the United States (32%) came first, then there was a big difference, followed by China, Iraq and Russia (7%). So, what is it? Oh, that's a summary. Interestingly, every time before the elections, the National Patriots try to make us fear our eastern neighbor. I just spoke to a Japanese journalist and a Russian journalist from Kaliningrad today. I explained that it is such a national sport, without it the IRL will no longer receive the votes that have been given to it so far. But, in fact, there is something very wrong with our fears, because three quarters of the world, 65 countries, and 70,000 people took part in this survey, but they thought otherwise. They thought that peace was the most dangerous in the United States (24%), the next one being Pakistan (8%), China (6%), Afghanistan (5%), Iran (5%), Israel (5%), North Korea (5%), India (4%), Iraq (4%), Japan (4%) and Syria (4%). The last one on this list is Russia with 2%. Something is wrong, somehow completely wrong about this problem is our propaganda, which washes our brains here in Estonia. Our foreign policy should be worded differently, I think. Today, 15 years ago, NATO began bombing Yugoslavia. During the bombings, 2500 civilians were killed, and I call on everyone to feel sorry for this tragedy. That was 15 years ago today. Remember this, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-24_U229	No more calls, I'll close the free microphone. Today's trial is over. Closure of the sitting at 5.48 p.m.
