ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U1	Good morning, good fellows. Honourable Riigikogu, it is a great pleasure to see you! We will begin the meeting of the 17th working week of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U2	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. An organisation called EU Kids Online took over the internet use of European children a few years ago. The results of the survey showed that 96% of Estonian children aged 9 to 16 years use the internet every day. The age of information technology has made many things easier in our society, but not only in a positive direction. One negative result may be that school violence moves online. While classical school bullying took place in most cases within the boundaries of the school, cyber bullying no longer knows the boundaries. Cyber bullying, according to specialists, is even more harmful than physical or verbal, as it is very aggressive bullying through different channels: forums, social networks, SMS, etc. The emergence of a new form of bullying has made it a little more difficult to detect and deal with bullying. In the past, if the child was able to escape from bullying, then the domestic interests are of little use. Smartphones and pocket computers also allow bullying there. According to a pan-European study, the cyber bullying of Estonian children takes precedence in Europe. Electronic means of communication allow for constant and sustained harassment. A tempting photo, comments made about it, or video clip is even available on the Internet for a very long time and many times during a single upload. In addition, they can be stored and uploaded to other environments. This means that the actual number of viewers of the clips is unknown, thus causing additional stress to the victims. The members of the Centre Party Group will address this matter to Minister for the Interior, Hanno Pevkur. There are five questions in the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U3	There's no more calls. I have adopted an inquiry on behalf of the Bureau, and the Bureau will decide on its further procedure in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. Yes, please, Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U4	Thank you. I have a procedural question. Yesterday we had an unprecedented situation in this Chamber when, at night, one minute before the three final sittings, the deadline for amendments was set for this morning, a few hours of the night. I therefore have the question whether the Committee on Economic Affairs may have, in the meantime, convened and proposed to the President of the Riigikogu, for example, to extend the time for proposing amendments, because it was perhaps rather unexpected for the Commission itself that yesterday's session lasted so long. I do admit that we were in trouble today in our group in discussing and formalising amendments. Any news on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U5	Thank you for that question. I don't have any news of that. This proposal has not been made, and I also asked whether the proposal had reached the office, but neither have they. Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U6	Thank you. I also have another procedural question in this regard. There is now such a strange situation that yesterday the President of the Riigikogu, who, I admit, is an older, more experienced and very respectable colleague of you, interpreted § 99 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures arbitrarily. It says here that the Chairman of the Riigikogu may, on the proposal of the committee, set a shorter deadline for amendments, but he does not have to. I have a question whether, at the next Bureau meeting, you might be able to discuss this among yourselves and also give feedback to the members of the Riigikogu on whether this point of the law should now be interpreted in such a strange way. How can we justify this, and how can we in future use it to our work?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U7	Thank you for that question. I am sure the Bureau will discuss this issue that you have raised at the moment. I promise that I will personally ask two honourable colleagues to do so. Now we've reached the presence control. Please, let's do the presence check! 86 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 15.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U8	Let's move on to today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic and other laws relating thereto. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? There are no requests, so we can go to the preparation of the final vote. Dear colleagues, draft 578 requires a majority of the Riigikogu's membership, and before the final vote we will do a verification of the presence. Requesting presence check! 83 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 18. I will put draft 578 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 64 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. Draft law 578 of the Code of Criminal Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws has been adopted as a law. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U9	Let's go to the second item. This is the third reading of draft Act 655 amending the Law on the Veterinary Surveillance of Animals and Animal Products and their Import and Export, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No, I don't. In that case, we will begin the preparation of the final vote. Let us now go to the vote. I shall put draft 655 to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. 80 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. Draft Act 655 amending the Law on trade in animals and animal products initiated by the Government of the Republic and on veterinary supervision of imports and exports of animals and products of animal origin and related amendments to other laws has been adopted as a law. The second item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U10	Let's go to the third item. This is the second reading of draft law 673 on improving international tax compliance between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the United States of America and ratifying the agreement on the implementation of the FATCA. It is my great pleasure to invite Remo Holsmer, member of the Finance Committee, to the Riigikogu Chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U11	Ladies and gentlemen, No amendments were received to this draft. No linguistic or technical comments have been made on the draft. The Committee on Finance has decided to put the second reading of the draft on today's agenda and to put it to a final vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U12	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. The position of the lead committee is that draft 673 should go to the final vote today, so let us start preparing it. I will put draft 673 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 82 parliamentarians voted in favour, no respondents or abstentions. Bill 673 has been passed as a law. The third item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U13	We have come to the fourth item on the agenda. This is an important discussion on the national question 'A candidate for Commissioner for the European Commission'. I hope we're ready for this. Before we go to the debate, let me briefly introduce the discussion procedure that follows from § 153 of our Home and Working Procedures Act. First, the President of the Committee on European Union Affairs, Arto Asa, gives a presentation for up to 10 minutes, then questions and answers for up to 20 minutes. After Arto Asa's presentation, Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas' presentation will be up to 10 minutes, then questions-answers will be up to 20 minutes. Since then, the Government of the Republic has appointed a candidate for the European Commission, Andrus Ansip, as well as up to 10 minutes, and questions-answers for up to 40 minutes. A member of the Riigikogu may submit up to two oral questions to all rapporteurs on this item. After the presentations and questions have been answered, the President shall open negotiations if he so wishes. All members of the Riigikogu may speak. I am also sending you a request from the European Union Affairs Committee. In particular, it is asked that, if possible, the speakers first be representatives of the political groups and then members of the Riigikogu. At the end of the discussion, the Riigikogu will not take a decision. Please present the Chair of the Riigikogu, President of the European Union Affairs Committee Arto Asa!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U14	Honourable Riigikogu! As you well know, the European Parliament elections took place on 25 May. The mandate of the last European Parliament, elected in 2009, is coming to an end. The new formation will begin its work on 1 July. The working hours of the current European Commission and its Commissioners will also be over soon. It is therefore very topical to discuss the composition of the next European Commission in the Estonian Parliament, including a possible candidate for the position of Commissioner of the European Commission. This is undoubtedly one of the highest positions to which the Estonian state sends its representative. The Treaty of Lisbon sought to increase the legitimacy of the European Commission, thereby increasing the role of the directly elected European Parliament in the appointment of the President of the European Commission. The leaders of the pan-European parties, the President of the Council and the Heads of State have already actively embarked on the search for a new presidential candidate. These discussions should reach the European Parliament by mid-July. Hopefully, an appropriate candidate will also be reached, with broad support both within the European Parliament and among the Heads of State. The precise composition and division of labour of the European Commission fall under the exclusive competence of the President of the Commission. However, the right to submit candidates belongs to the Member States, and all candidates from the Commission must be heard by the European Parliament. The new Commission should start work in November this year. It is common practice in European Union countries that a Member State's government, not Parliament, chooses the candidate for Commissioner of the European Commission. It seeks to avoid possible institutional conflict between the European Parliament and national parliaments. The government's decision-making process is also generally faster and more flexible. This logic and procedure has also been followed in Estonia. Paragraph 202 of the Act of the Government of the Republic expressly states that the Government of the Republic shall appoint the candidate. This, of course, does not preclude Parliament's right to participate in this debate. Such opportunities are also provided for in the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act. The Riigikogu Committee on European Union Affairs has also had the opportunity to listen to the candidate for Commissioner of the European Commission on two previous occasions. The first time, it was done as a special committee on 19 January 2004 before Estonia joined the European Union and even before the European Affairs Commission became a European Union Affairs Commission. At this meeting of the Commission, Prime Minister Juhan Parts presented Commissioner-designate Siim Kallas to the members of the Commission. The Commission's discussion focused on procedural questions, such as why the Commissioner-designate was presented to the Commission at such short notice or how often the Commissioner should go to the Commission in the future. Following the debate, the information was taken into account; no vote took place. On 15 September 2009, the Commissioner-designate was heard at the European Union Affairs Committee. Candidate Kallas spoke carefully about how he sees his new period of work and what he sees as the greatest challenges for the European Union. Following the discussion, a decision was also taken to support the candidate proposed by the Government of the Republic. Thus, in a relatively young Member State, we have not developed a firm practice of how the Riigikogu and the European Union Affairs Commission process this survey. Moreover, in view of the desire to further increase the role of the Riigikogu, we decided to bring the question of the nomination of a Commissioner to plenary this time with the European Union Affairs Commission. Since there is no separate procedure in the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act for listening to a Commissioner candidate before the plenary, we have chosen the format of a crucial national question as a tool. The course of today's debate will probably also indicate whether this format is suitable or whether a separate procedure for plenary should be drawn up in the future. Let it be said that there is no binding vote at the end of our debate today; this is essentially a hearing. But let's put the formal legal procedures aside and get to the content. Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas informed the European Union Affairs Committee at its meeting on 2 June that the Government of the Republic has decided to support the former Prime Minister as Commissioner-designate and Andrus Ansip, who has recently received the mandate of the European Parliament. I would like to point out that, as the President of the European Commission has not yet been appointed and formally asked for Commissioners-designate from the Member States, this is a political choice by the government. A legally binding decision will be taken later. Following the decision of the Cabinet, a meeting with Andrus Ansip took place on 6 June in the Committee on European Union Affairs. The meeting was very constructive and meaningful. There is no point in reiterating the precise content of this, as soon as the Commissioner-designate is in front of you. It is undoubtedly a very capable, experienced and strong candidate. Following the debate, there was no vote in the Committee on European Union Affairs, no alternative candidates were submitted, the information was taken into account. But before Commissioner-designate Andrus Ansip can speak, we also considered it necessary to invite Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas to the sitting of the Riigikogu, who would justify the decision made by the Government of the Republic. I hope that today's debate will, in substance, respond to the request of this House, is dignified and thorough. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U15	Thank you. You have questions too. Remo Holsmer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U16	Thank you. Mr President of the Commission. As Chairman of the Commission, how do you assess the cooperation of the Commissioner-designate with yourself and with other members of the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U17	Thank you. It's a very difficult question. It has to be acknowledged that the European Union Affairs Committee always got along very well with Andrus Ansip when he was Prime Minister. The Prime Minister never missed the meetings of ELAK after he had been invited. Unfortunately, many other ministers do not stand out with such good behavior. In this sense, we must certainly recognise both the previous and the present Prime Minister, who respects the European Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U18	Please, Laine Randjärv!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! That's my question. What are the procedures or traditions for similar decisions in our neighbouring countries in Latvia and Finland? How do Parliament and the Commissioner-designate interact there?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U20	Thank you. We have a few reviews of how procedures have been organised in other Member States. One such overview has been made in the Finnish Parliament, the other in our own house. In general, as I said, in most Member States it is up to the government to make this decision. In most Member States, the government does not have to consult at all, discuss it with Parliament, in some countries the Commission on European Union Affairs is informed, in some individual Member States the Commission on European Union Affairs organises a 'listening'. According to my information, at least in the past, it was only in the Lithuanian Parliament that there was such an obligation that this issue was also discussed and voted on before the House. The way in which this year, whether Member States' practices are changing, cannot yet be said. In general, however, it has also been a government decision in our neighbouring countries, also in Scandinavian countries, which have long been members of the European Union and where a clearer practice has developed. We're just shaping our practice. There is nothing deplorable in Parliament's debate; it is very welcome. So I believe that we have found a good solution: Parliament is debating, but the thick end remains for the government. I think that Parliament could also intervene with a vote, which is now my personal assessment, in case it appears that the candidate proposed by the government is very weak or certainly not suitable for this office. Parliament could then use its monitoring function more forcefully and show the red light.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U21	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U22	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Mr President of the Commission. When listening to your speech and the first two questions, there was doubt as to whether I was at the Riigikogu or at the Reform Party election meeting, but I looked at the fact that since Liisa-Ly Pakosta also asks, I think this is a Riigikogu meeting. We are both among the Liberals in Europe, and the European Commission so far was, if I remember correctly, six or seven members of the Liberal World-view Commission. In the elections to the European Parliament, the Liberal Party Group obtained a third result. Do you know how many liberals from other countries come from the Commission besides the Estonian candidate, who is also from a liberal party and a liberal worldview?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U23	Thank you. I think that the next waitress, Prime Minister Rõivas, will be better able to answer this question, and I am sure that Andrus Ansip will also have the latest information on other possible candidates. But there are more. Probably not as many as it was in the previous Commission, but there are certainly more. Currently, most Member States have not yet submitted their candidates. Only four or five countries have officially approved their candidate.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U24	Liisa-Ly Pakosta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U25	Thank you. Dear waitress, When the Committee on European Union Affairs discussed this issue, we also touched gently on the issue that the discussion of the European Commission candidate as a matter of national importance is perhaps not exactly the format for which the crucial national issue was ever intended. How do you feel about this, and could the current right of the European Union Affairs Commission to initiate matters of national importance change? Could there be another, actually more appropriate format for discussing the specific issue that we have on the agenda today under this point?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U26	Thank you. The Committee on European Union Affairs has, in fact, actually started national issues before, almost every year. But our basic reporting form and form of discussion are set out in the Home and Working Procedures Act. In autumn, we often discuss European Union policy here. I very much hope that the activity and interest in this debate will be greater in the autumn. But, of course, all other ideas or suggestions to improve ELAK's work are welcome. It must be said, however, that not all political groups are very actively involved in this work, especially if they tend to remain in the opposition. I think that some Members of the Commission have to look in the mirror. If there's only one visit every 5th, or I don't know, at the sixth meeting, at the conference, there's something wrong with attitude. But this is about the internal life of the European Union Affairs Committee, which is not the main issue at the moment. As far as this procedure is concerned, as I said in my speech, there is currently no better in the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. Today's debate will show whether this format is appropriate or not. Indeed, it is different from this ordinary, traditional debate on a key national issue, with long presentations, experts from outside, etc. It seems to me that we can do it this way too, but it is not a question of future debate. I am prepared to hold these debates.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U27	Jaak Aaviksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U28	Good waitress! In addition to the applicant's personal qualities and indisputable political capital, did the European Union Affairs Commission also discuss more general political issues relating to the implementation of the Commissioner's post and the underlying political platform? Is this approach based primarily on the political preferences of the Reform Party or, more generally, on the national interests of the Republic of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U29	It is certainly based on the wider interests of the Republic of Estonia. In the Commission, we also had a discussion with candidate Ansip on the issues and areas that are now the most important. The substance of the debate is complicated by the fact that there is not yet any information available on any candidate's position. If this is found at one point, it will, of course, be easier to examine this work plan and programme in a specific area of responsibility. But also at the level of the Heads of State, I believe that Prime Minister Rõivas can speak more about this himself, if the listeners have an interest in the really large issues and priorities that the next European Commission will have to deal with. For example, the conclusion of a free trade agreement with the United States of America, job creation, economic growth, all such important issues have already been agreed and Estonia certainly has a lot to give for its part. It's gonna start soon.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U30	Meelis Mälberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U31	Thank you. Good waitress! The Commissioner, of course, does not represent the interests of a particular country in the Commission, but, more generally, the interests of the whole of Europe. How important is it that each country presents the strongest possible candidate that it has to take right now, as Estonia undoubtedly does?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U32	Of course, this is very important. The stronger the personalities, the more authoritative the European Commission is. It is also true that, at the moment that Estonia has sent its candidate there and the candidate has been sworn into office, it no longer formally represents its country, but must represent the European Union as a whole, and that is the main role of the European Commission. Given the different interests of all Member States, a strong Commission that sees a large picture and is indeed able to represent the Union's common interests is crucial. But it seems that there are many good candidates in other Member States as well. Quite a number of well-known ministers across Europe, and the heads of state are also ready to work in the European Commission. So I think it's gonna be a good setup.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U33	Liisa-Ly Pakosta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U34	Thank you. Good chairman of the committee! I was not satisfied with the answer to your previous question when you said that the Committee on European Union Affairs has started important national issues every year. According to statistics, however, this is the ninth time in Parliament's history when the Committee on European Union Affairs launches a key national issue, the last, or so far, last, remained in 2006. What exactly did you mean when you said that the Committee on European Union Affairs is launching such important national issues every year?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U35	Thank you. I will start with the fact that I have not received any suggestions from you to discuss these issues. However, when I look at my statistics here, the last question discussed was the crucial national issue of the European debt crisis in 2011 and, later on, it has indeed been done during the autumn session, when the European Union's policy debate was before the House. So it is, of course, the question of the activity of the Members of the Commission. I have had the honour of leading this committee for a year and a half. Many members have been there longer.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U36	Tõnu Juul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U37	Honourable Vice President! Dear waitress, The appointment and appointment of the previous European Commission were delayed for months. Are the current candidates aware of this relatively difficult foreign policy situation and will they make every effort to get this Commission to work quickly?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U38	Thank you. This lengthy process is certainly not in the interest of the European Union. Political suspension, especially in a situation where both security and economic conditions are quite poor and critical, is not a good thing. I think that most of all depends on whether the President of the European Commission is able to agree in Parliament in July, i.e. whether Jean-Claude Juncker's candidacy will be supported or not, from there the ball will start rolling. If the appointment of the President is slowing down and this cannot be done in July, of course all other procedures will be delayed. As I said, according to the formal timetable, the new Commission should start working in full in November, the mandate of the old Commission is over. But there have also been cases in practice when it has shifted a few or three months forward to a new year. Let's hope it goes faster this time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U39	Thank you very much. No further questions. I am now honoured to ask for a speech chair of the Riigikogu in Prime Minister Taavi Rõiva.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U40	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! The Commissioner of the European Commission is undoubtedly one of the most important international positions in which Estonia is able to present its candidate. I am therefore very pleased to introduce you, the honourable Riigikogu, to our Commissioner-designate. The Government of the Republic has the duty and competence to appoint a candidate by law, but I am very pleased that Parliament has taken the initiative and is taking the opportunity to debate Europe. What are the requirements for Commissioners-designate? Article 17 of the Treaty on European Union states: 'The term of office of the Commission shall be five years. Members of the Commission shall be chosen on the basis of their general expertise and their commitment to European affairs from persons whose independence is beyond doubt. The Commission shall be completely independent in the performance of its duties. Without prejudice to Article 18 (2), the members of the Commission shall neither seek nor receive instructions from any government, institution, body, office or agency. They shall refrain from any action incompatible with their duties or with the performance of their duties. ' I am pleased that our long-term Prime Minister, your current colleague in the Riigikogu and Andrus Ansip, elected to the European Parliament with great electoral support, agreed to the proposal to apply for this position of great importance from the point of view of Estonia and Europe. It is difficult to find a candidate in Estonia who better meets the requirements of the Treaty. The chairman of the European Union Affairs Commission, Arto Aas, said well a few months ago that Estonia should send a commissioner whose name should not be Googled in the capitals of Europe. After Estonia's accession to the European Union, the heads of government and heads of state of all countries have met on average once a month, and in nine out of ten in the year Estonia has been represented at these meetings by Andrus Ansip. It is therefore no wonder that the name and views of Andrus Ansip need not be Googled by European leaders. He is well - known and more well - valued. We must bear in mind when presenting a candidate that neither the Prime Minister nor the Government of the Republic has a final say. The composition of the Commission and the suitability of the candidates for membership shall be decided first by the President of the European Commission, who shall be proposed by the Council and elected by the European Parliament. The Commissioner's portfolios are also distributed on the proposal of the presidential candidate. Only then will the suitability of the candidates be assessed in the European Parliament. The composition of the European Commission as a whole shall be approved by the European Parliament and appointed by the European Council. You know Andrus Ansip. You are also aware of his views and commitment. Who has forgotten, they can read the direction of the European Union's policies drawn up by the governments he has led, and also recall Prime Minister Ansip's speeches on European Union issues here in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. For me, his support for a strong and united Europe is drawn as a line through. A strong and capable Europe is undoubtedly in Estonia's interests. Nor is it of minor importance that Andrus Ansip has received a strong mandate from the people in the recent European Parliament elections. In the end, however, I would point out that the government, while calling the Commissioner-designate, does not authorise or otherwise direct him. According to the rules, the Riigikogu cannot and must not do so either before or after its appointment. The Commissioner must be independent of external pressure and serve the interests of Europe as a whole, including Estonia. I sincerely believe that the cooperation between the Government of the Republic and the Riigikogu with both the Commissioner elected from Estonia and the other Commissioners will also be close and effective in the next European Commission. I would also like to share with you what I, as Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia, expect from the leaders of the new European institutions. Above all, I expect both the Member States and the European Union to remain on the path of structural reforms. The political orientation towards the stability of the euro area must continue and the Commission must not show any tolerance to the breach of budgetary rules. The new Commission should continue to connect Europe's energy, communication and transport systems and relevant markets. Both services and the digital market must be opened and developed to restore growth. A common transatlantic economic space must also be created between Europe and America. Finally, we will not be able to get over or around the security issue. Europe's new leaders must draw adequate conclusions from crises beyond Europe's southern and eastern borders. I wish you success, honourable Parliament, a constructive and interesting debate and Andrus Ansip. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U41	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. You have questions too. Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U42	Thank you. Prime Minister, first of all, thank you to the government for presenting a very good candidate. Since Arto Aas has already mentioned that you are probably going to the Council to discuss something, including the future composition of the Commission, I wonder if there are already views on which political family might be the future President of the European Commission. Do we know who that might be yet? Who is the most spoken about in Europe?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U43	Thank you. As the Chairman of the Committee on European Union Affairs has said, Estonia is represented only by the Prime Minister in the Council, and he is the only one who is directly present in these debates. In addition to the discussion at the Council's table, the conversations that we have with our colleagues on the phone are certainly very important, and they have also been very, very close over the last few days and weeks. I do not wish yet to say prematurely who the next President of the European Commission will be, but I dare say that he is very likely to be a representative of a conservative party. In the European Commission, leadership positions will certainly take into account personal qualities, political experience and political affiliation. It is also no secret that the Conservatives won the elections across Europe. At present, the Council supports the idea that Conservatives can be the first to apply for a majority in the Council, and then in the European Parliament, the lion's share of the Heads of State or Government of Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U44	Tõnis Kõiv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U45	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! The European Commission is well known to have 28 Commissioners, i.e. 28 Members and responsibilities are also distributed to everyone. Of course, these areas of responsibility are all very important, but some are nevertheless more important. What could be the list of three or four priority areas of responsibility that are most in Estonia's interest? Of course, it should be taken into account that the Commissioner does not represent Estonia directly in the Commission, but nevertheless. What could be the best areas where our Commissioner-designate could end up, and what would be best for Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U46	Thank you. We are not yet at the stage where the distribution of the European Commission's portfolios is being discussed. It must first be known who the next President of the European Commission will be. I believe that the next round will be agreed, who will be the President of the Council. The position of the High Representative of the Commission is probably among the first to be decided, and then it will be possible to discuss in negotiations with the President of the European Commission what portfolio one or another Commissioner-designate could assume responsibility. I have no doubt that Ansip, who has been a prime minister for nine years, is one of the most experienced politicians, can handle any portfolio in the European Commission. Which portfolio is most in Estonia's interest or in the interests of Europe, isn't it time? I wouldn't jump to conclusions. I can also say that I can see who are possible precedents for the President of the European Commission, and I have spoken to them, and I can see that they appreciate Andrus Ansip very highly as a human being too.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U47	Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U48	Thank you. Prime Minister! You mentioned a very important issue for me, the European digital market. How do you see cooperation with the European Commission in this area and what are the options for modernising the European Union's digital market, like e-Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U49	Thank you. I have already discussed this issue as Prime Minister, but also, in the past, as Head of the European Union Affairs Commission, repeatedly with Neelie Kroes, the European Commissioner for the Digital Agenda, as well as with other Commissioners. It is still incredible that most European countries have not yet taken over what we have been using in Estonia for 15 years. If I send a digital bill to the parliament about 300 metres from here, from Stenbock's house, then we already save money and time for the Estonian state, reducing the administrative burden. Imagine if we could do the same internationally. I am very pleased that our immediate neighbours, in particular Finland, but also Latvia and Lithuania, are already taking over what has brought Estonia's e-services success with our X-Road solution and digital identity. As far as I know, Andrus Ansip, as Prime Minister, signed the world's first international digital agreement, namely the Prime Minister of Finland. I very much hope that, during the next Commission term, there will be much more countries using such solutions. But the digital internal market is, of course, much more. This is also the case when buying iTunes books or movies can do so without restriction, regardless of which European Union country you live in. We remember that some time ago iTunes, which is a very popular shopping channel elsewhere, did not work in full functionality in Estonia. Such things are also part of the internal market.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U50	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U51	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! It is really early to talk about the possible distribution of the Commissioner's portfolios. However, it is generally known that Member States' awareness or progress in some areas can also become decisive. Could you name the strengths of Estonia and what we are known for in the European Union? In what areas can the image of our country become decisive in choosing the field of activity of a possible Estonian Commissioner candidate?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U52	Thank you. The image of the Estonian state is very good in Europe and governments led by Andrus Ansip have certainly done a great service. But to mention areas where the image of Estonia is good, I really say this, knowing that it is the way others outside us appreciate us, not the way we need to hoist ourselves, we can highlight, for example, financial issues, information technology issues, e-services and, in fact, the use of European Union funds. Estonia is probably one of the few countries, if not the only country that has committed itself to using 100% of the European Union's resources, and not only to using it, so that it can really benefit Estonian society. A large number of ministers are involved in these issues. Therefore, I say again that there is simply no reason to distribute matters too narrowly at the moment, but the image of the Estonian state is certainly very good. And we don't have to be ashamed of it, because that's exactly what the others say.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U53	Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U54	Thank you very much. Good morning, Prime Minister. My question concerns the good balance of the European Commission, where it is no longer the case that all Member States present only a candidate for men or women. After all, there has been a beautiful talk in Europe about two candidates from all Member States, both male and female. What do you think of that? What is your position if, in five years' time, this really will happen? Are you in favour of this idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U55	Thank you. In my government, the proportion of women is very high, and I am proud of it. I have not invited any female ministers to government because of the quota, but because they have been the best in this position. And I think that in the European Commission too, of course, each country is free in its own decisions, but it must send the best of its own to a certain position. If we look at the experience, personal characteristics and previous work activities of potential candidates in Estonia, I really do not see an equal alternative to Andrus Ansip. I think it is in the interest of all of Estonia to send the strongest representative we have to the European Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U56	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U57	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! Undoubtedly, Andrus Ansip is a very good candidate for Commissioner of the European Commission. But as we know, the government is calling a candidate. Did the other names go through the government discussion? And if you did, who did?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U58	Thank you. This procedure is that the Prime Minister is proposing, the Government is discussing this proposal, and in this case, it was supported. I gave the Government of the Republic a name to consider, Andrus Ansip, and it received all the government's support, so we did not need to discuss alternatives. I believe that you will agree with me when I say that it is very difficult to find another person in Estonia whose experience in managing the state, and also in running European affairs, would be as important as that of Andrus Ansipil. I guess that candidate's choice couldn't come as a big surprise.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U59	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U60	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Siim Kallas is the European Commissioner for Transport and is also known as the strong spokesperson for the Rail Baltic project. Could it now be that the European Commission is losing our Rail Baltic spokesperson, or should we, in any case, give Andrus Ansip a mandate to continue this mission, regardless of the portfolio he receives?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U61	Thank you. As I said before, and as Arto Aas said before, we do not have any opportunity to give binding mandates to members of the Commission, because they represent not their country of origin as Commissioner of the Commission, but Europe as a whole. But also Rail Baltic is actually in the interest of the whole of Europe. Not only Siim Kallas, Vice-President of the Commission from Estonia, but also all the other Commissioners with whom I have been communicating, is very supportive of the view that the whole of Europe should be connected to a proper road network, should also be connected to energy connections. These are the topics we are working on intensively. It is therefore rather a question of how to reach a consensus with European leaders that it is part of this package, for which we give the Commission a mandate as a whole or show that we, as Heads of State, want to see it in the work of the Commission. We have such a consensus in a good way at the moment. Connecting Europe, not only to the Baltics, but to the whole of Europe, is also a priority for other European prime ministers and heads of government. So far, it has received very broad support from the European Commission, up to the President of the European Commission, José Manuel Barroso.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U62	Prime Minister, thank you. No further questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U63	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U64	I now ask for a presentation of the Riigikogu Chair of the European Commission candidate Andrus Ansip!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U65	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, The Government of the Republic of Estonia has made a fundamental decision to nominate me as a member of the next European Commission. I thank the Government of the Republic for its trust! Although the appointment of a Commissioner candidate is a government competence, it is appropriate in a parliamentary state that the candidate also introduces himself in the Riigikogu. This is a polite, democratic and open way of delivering. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for this opportunity. The European Parliament has taken the view that future members of the European Commission should also stand for election in order to strengthen the legitimacy of the Commission. In the parliamentary elections, I announced in advance that, if elected, I would like to stand as a member of the European Commission. I am, of course, pleased that the voters decided to support this endeavour. This attempt to increase legitimacy could also be one of the grounds for the appointment of a candidate for President of the European Commission. Before the elections, the political group that received the most seats in the elections presented Jean-Claude Juncker as a candidate for President of the European Commission. I believe that the Council should give Jean-Claude Juncker the first opportunity to present a plan on where Europe should be coming to in the next five years. He's the one who should get the first chance to put together a working team. Members of the European Commission work on the basis of the guidelines of the President of the Commission, while the Commission acts in a collegiate way as a decision-maker. It is therefore natural that each Commissioner-designate will present to the public in advance his views on developments both within the European Union and in Europe in general. Ladies and gentlemen, you know my views very well. In the last nine years, as head of government, I have had the opportunity to express my views in action. I believe in the need for European integration, and I believe that it does not endanger national statehood in any way. I have been, and will continue to be, a liberal who sees integration as an opportunity to promote the freedoms, well-being and security of European citizens. Security in particular proved to be a central issue in today's elections. If I should be entrusted with the role of a Member of the Commission, I hope that the decisions of the Commission will strengthen the internal and external security of the European Union. I see three lines of work first and foremost. The first is to ensure the European Union's energy independence. The outgoing Commission has just published an initial analysis which proposes a number of steps to improve the functioning of the energy market, speed up the establishment of connections to support independence and, in the long term, also to establish an Energy Union in order for the European Union to be more coherent in its negotiations with energy suppliers. Secondly, support for democratic developments and welfare growth in our neighbourhood. On the one hand, the European Union must continue to support Ukraine, both in strengthening and building the country, in exploiting the opportunities of the free trade agreement between the European Union and Ukraine, and in making targeted use of financial assistance. On the other hand, the European Union as a whole, as well as the Commission alone, could make greater use of instruments in different areas in line with each other, such as foreign policy, development aid and external trade. Thirdly, strengthening the economy and the single market. Economic stagnation, unemployment, and hopelessness are easily causing the soil to spread extreme views. We have far from exploited all the opportunities of the Single Market in a way that would give a stronger boost to economic development and job creation. The development of the Digital Single Market is the primary element here. It is also important to create international infrastructure to exploit the potential of the single market. Free trade agreements must also be concluded with the European Union's major trading partners. Ladies and gentlemen, My suitability as a Member of the European Commission must be assessed first at European Union level by the candidate for President of the European Commission, then by the European Parliament. If the President of the Commission, who has received a mandate from the European Parliament to set up a committee, decides to accept my nomination, he will also decide on the area of responsibility that I am entrusted with and its limits. I have expressed my interest in dealing with economic and financial issues in the past, but it is impossible and pointless to speculate on a specific portfolio at the moment. This is the decision of the President of the Commission, who faces the difficult task of sharing responsibilities between 26 strong Commissioners-designates. I'm sure he can do this job perfectly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U66	Thank you. You have a lot of questions. Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U67	Thanks! Honourable candidate for a Member of the European Commission. Despite the fact that it is not good to speculate now on the area of responsibility, it is not certain and it is decided by someone else, you probably have some kind of preference in your heart. If, for example, you are offered a Commissioner for Culture, what would you do?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U68	Thank you. Indeed, there is no point in speculating on the areas of responsibility, because their division between Commissioners is a rather complex process. And now, if the identity of the candidate for President of the European Commission is not yet known, there are so many unknown variables that it is better not to speculate. However, what does this portfolio distribution depend on first and foremost? First of all, the Council must find a consensus between the Heads of State and the Heads of State. A consensus is usually sought, although decisions are taken by qualified majority. A coalition must also be established in the European Parliament. The creation of a majority of 751 members is not very easy, it has never gone smoothly, I hope this time it will be easier, but it is still a complex activity. Each coalition maker has clearly its own interests and these interests must be protected in the coalition. The rotation principle applies, i.e. if one country has already had some kind of responsibility, then it can be assumed that the portfolio of the same responsibility Commissioner will no longer be given to that country in the next few decades. The rotation principle has so far been followed sufficiently in the European Union. This may also include neighbours, i.e. if neighbours with similar interests have had one area of responsibility, it may already become an obstacle to this area of responsibility becoming another. A balanced distribution of interests, as a cohesion country, a country that receives money from the EU's common budget, for example, has a budget Commissioner's portfolio, in terms of balancing, the management of regional funds should normally be in the hands of a net payer from the country. The various interests are being balanced and the profile of the country and of the Commissioner-designate is certainly also being taken into account. If the country is clearly profiling itself, we are now calling it a hypothetical country, for example, against green energy, then, as you can imagine, there is a very low probability that the energy portfolio will go to this country precisely because most countries in the European Union have completely different views. So these parameters, the variables by which the portfolios are distributed, are very large, and indeed it is now very difficult to predict this distribution somehow. My interests are known to you, to the people of Estonia. They relate in particular to the financial and economic sectors. At the same time, in the digital field, Estonia's development has been very good, and I would also be interested in it. I'd be interested in the field of energy. I believe that a Commissioner from Estonia, also from Central or Eastern Europe, has certain advantages in matters concerning the neighbourhood policy and the Eastern Partnership, because we have been going through the development that lies ahead for the countries that are going to have the neighbourhood policy or the Eastern Partnership in the last few decades. As a former head of government, I certainly do not agree with those people who say that some of the ministerial portfolios are weighty and others are of little importance. Perhaps I categorically disagree with those who think that the portfolios of the Minister for Finance, Foreign Affairs or Economic Affairs are weighty, but the portfolios of the Minister for Education or Culture, for example, are not at all weighty. In the government, all ministers are equal and all areas of life are represented by weighty portfolios. So, yeah, I'm not ready to turn down any possible offers right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U69	Thank you. Let's keep going. We still have 34 minutes to answer the questions. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U70	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr. Ansip! Your experience here has been very much emphasised. The two pre-rapporteurs may have done it a little too much for the pangyric. But you certainly have the experience to decide whether something needs to be changed in the structure of the European Commission. By the way, our next item concerns the law of the Government of the Republic, where the changes in the structure of the government of your successor, Mr Clothes, are somewhat ex post legitimised. Should such changes be made to the distribution of the European Commission and how likely they could be? I am thinking of the division of areas between different portfolios.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U71	Thank you. Very likely there will be changes. The government must be flexible, and the European Commission must also be flexible. With changed circumstances, new objectives will re-distribute administrative areas. There is now a debate in the European Union on whether the administration of Commissioners should be reduced to the principle that one Vice-President of the Commission should lead a group of Commissioners. Some object that, under the Treaty of Lisbon, each country has one Commissioner and that all portfolios of Commissioners are equal in weight, some should not be subordinated to others. But we have had the posts of Vice-President of the European Commission all along, and if this office had no substance, it is unlikely that these Vice-Presidents would have been mentioned simply for their name's sake. So personally, I have a positive view of clustering. I believe that in this case, the European Commission would be more effective. But the direct answer to your question is that change will undoubtedly come. Change has taken place at the start of every new European Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U72	Tarmo Pine, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U73	Thank you, Mr President. Commissioner-designate! Curiosity is human. The main debate has taken place today on the status or portfolio of the Commissioner. On one occasion, I am sure that you would be the best Commissioner for Finance in the next Commission, taking into account Estonia's experience, taking into account your own experience and the great statistical baggage that is always spinning in your head. But to the potential Commissioner for Finance, I have a specific question. How do you assess the current situation in the euro area?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U74	Today, the situation in the euro area is much better than it was five years ago. But on the portfolio of the Commissioner for Finance, if you mean Olli Rehn's current portfolio, I would be more modest in my ambitions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U75	Tõnu Juul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U76	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear waitress, The elected MEPs go to Brussels with very different electoral promises. Yana Toom, for example, will fight for a single pension system. Obviously, this is an activity that does not leave any citizen of an Eastern European country indifferent. The sense of justice in this region is clearly affected by the current agricultural subsidies of very different sizes in the European Union. If you are dealing with agricultural problems there, what is your opinion that could be done in the coming years to make a slight improvement in the situation in Eastern Europe?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U77	Thank you. In the case of common agricultural payments, it should also be borne in mind that the cost of inputs varies between countries in the European Union. And we obviously do not see full equality during the next multiannual budget plan. But I consider the current multiannual budgetary plan to be favourable to our farmers for the years 2014 to 2020. We still have considerably more money for agriculture today than in the last seven-year period. We've even gained half a billion more. This certainly does not mean that we are at the same level as the Western European countries, but in view of the fact that we also have a much lower cost of production inputs, this result can be considered to be quite good. But the direction has to be equalized. The single pension system you have mentioned is undoubtedly also possible in the European Union, but how much of this unity is real unity, it is a matter of its own. It is clear that pensions will not be equal in the next few decades in the European Union. However, if you call a uniform pension system, that people in Europe will retire when they are 60 to 70 or, if, by unity, that pensions are paid 35 to 70% of their income, this unity can be sought in such a convergence. How much such a unified system adds to the practical value of a person is a question of your own.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U78	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U79	Thank you very much, Madame... sorry, Mr President.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U80	Thank you. [[Laughter.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U81	Honourable candidate for a Member of the European Commission. Let us be clear that I also asked this question to the previous Commissioner-designate. Suppose you are offered a portfolio of the Commissioner for Agriculture, which has not been your favorite theme of all time, such as finance or energy security. I'll ask you briefly. As Commissioner, would you be afraid of such a position?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U82	I'm not scared, and I don't agree that it's not one of my favorite subjects. Who is familiar with me knows that I have even completed three courses of agronomic education in the EPA of my time. And I am very grateful to the University of Life Sciences for obtaining systematic knowledge in the field of accounting, which I was not given at the Faculty of Physics and Chemistry at the University of Tartu. Yes, I very much appreciate the development of Estonian agriculture. Compared to the 30-year-old period, which is generally idealized in terms of agriculture, our current agricultural production figures are quite different. I have brought these comparisons from this speaker before, but let it be said once again that, in time, for example, the wheat harvest of 30 quinters per hectare was already very much and deserved praise to the heavens, 40 was a miracle. But today, the record harvest of winter wheat in Estonia is 96.7 centners per hectare. Although we now count our crops in tonnes, not in quintners anymore, I brought it in quintners in terms of comparability. That's completely different! In fact, this other, this new, high level, has been achieved by knowledge, not by being insanely scattered. This fertiliser did not contribute much to plant growth in its time, on the contrary, it polluted nature. With the right agrotechnic techniques, Estonian agriculture has reached a whole new level. It's the same in dairy production. In time, 3,500 kilograms of milk per cow each year was a tremendous achievement. Five thousand kilos already meant the Zigul purchase permit and the Lenin Order. Today, however, Estonia's average milk production is almost 8,000 kilos and more. I have seen and looked with interest at the Estonian record cow, which has produced 19 tons of milk during the year. So I've always been interested in this area. If I had the opportunity to deal with the agricultural sector in my new office, I would be delighted to do so, of course, in the interests of the European Union as a whole, but also without forgetting the specific interests of Estonian farmers.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U83	Rein Aidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U84	Thank you, Mr President. Good Commissioner-designate! Agriculture has already been affected here on several occasions. I would start with the fact that, as we know, agricultural subsidies are being paid in many countries around the world. But the difference in subsidies is also one of the major reasons why, for example, a possible free trade agreement between the European Union and the United States could cause serious problems. How do you assess when a free trade agreement between the European Union and the US will become a reality? What do you think the prognosis is?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U85	It's hard for me to predict right now. The negotiations have been and are still going quite intensively. In the negotiations, both parties are energetically defending their positions. As a liberal, I very much hope that this anachronism in the form of customs will disappear in trade between the European Union and the United States by the end of the 21st century. Basically, the European Union as a whole could win a percentage of this TTIP. We, Estonia, do not have much direct trade with the United States, but given that we are doing very large outsourcing work for Swedish and Finnish companies with very large volumes of trade with the Americans, this impact on the Estonian economy could be even greater than this one-and-a-half percent increase in economic growth forecast in the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U86	Meelis Mälberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U87	Thank you, President of the sitting. A good fellow Member, Commissioner-designate. I am asking more broadly about the future and perspective of the European Union. Would the European Union expand in what direction and direction? Or should we pull a little brake on enlargement for a while?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U88	Thank you. The most likely candidate for President of the European Commission does not consider it very likely that the European Union will actually expand over the next five years. There are negotiations in progress with a number of countries. However, the likelihood that these negotiations will reach this phase, which will really allow some countries to join the European Union over the next five years, is not very high, it still requires a very great effort. We are talking primarily about the Western Balkans, but also about Turkey. I refer once again to a possible presidential candidate, who has said that a country that is debating the censorship of the Internet is not very mature to join the European Union. Candidate countries must meet the criteria set, no discount will be granted to anyone. However, all European countries that fulfil the conditions must also have the right to join the European Union. It could take a lot of time. It took Estonia 10 years, some countries have already gone several decades and are still far from membership. This, of course, does not mean that this path should not be taken. We need to start earlier, time to work for ourselves and act intensively, and once the country is ready to join the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U89	Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U90	Thank you. Honourable candidate for a Member of the European Commission. A few weeks ago, in this Chamber, we discussed youth issues as a matter of national importance. At the time, we found that Estonia is in a relatively good position compared to other countries of the European Union, with youth unemployment at 16% of ours versus the European Union average of 23%. Do you have a position on how to help other EU countries to better integrate young people into the labour market?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U91	Thank you. This is not my original idea, but the Finns have developed a Youth Guarantee instrument and it is now being implemented across the European Union. I believe in this, but it must be acknowledged that there is a very strong correlation between overall unemployment and youth unemployment. In countries with high overall unemployment, youth unemployment is also very high. In those countries where overall unemployment is low, the situation of young people is also much better. In particular, measures to boost the competitiveness of the economy will need to be implemented. Ways must be found to create jobs for all, young and old. I am pleased that one of the most important tools for Jean-Claude Juncker, a candidate for President of the European Commission, to help reduce unemployment and increase competitiveness is precisely digital development. If we have managed to increase the economy by about 2% a year by simply introducing digital signatures, why can't the European Union as a whole have the same effect?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U92	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U93	Thank you. Good Andrus! You have a unique position because you are a Member of the European Parliament, and I know that you have already been to Brussels before you can start working in the European Commission. What are the lines of force in the European Parliament and, in particular, among the chairmen of the committees? It is, of course, very important that the European Parliament works effectively and is in favour of a'strong Europe', and Parliament's relations with the Commission and the Member States are very important. Now that the eurosceptics, the anti-euro and the extremists have received quite a few mandates in Parliament, is there a risk that the work of the European Parliament, and thus the whole of the European Union and the European Commission, will be hindered by this?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U94	Thank you. I believe that the new European Parliament will be able to work effectively. We're in the process of forming party groups. I very much hope that a major coalition will be formed, including the Liberals, and I believe that this composition of the European Parliament will be able to work effectively. The composition of the European Parliament closing the work maintained the view that the President of the European Commission should be the candidate for the President of the European Commission who had debated and participated in the elections. As far as I know now, the majority of the major political groups have stuck to the positions expressed before the elections. It is accepted that Jean-Claude Juncker, as a representative of the European People's Party, should be the first to have the opportunity to form the European Commission. I have no doubts or doubts about the working capacity of the new European Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U95	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U96	Thank you, Mr President. Member of the Commission. About a week ago, the European Commission made a number of comments to Estonia, a total of five. One concerned the danger of the Estonian state losing the balance of the budget. And another important point for me was that Estonia still has no confidence in balancing the responsibilities and revenues of local governments. Do you agree, or do you object?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U97	I always take the recommendations of both the European Commission and the International Monetary Fund very seriously, and we have always followed them. The budgetary balance has been a major problem for all the countries of the European Union. In the current circumstances, we can say that this problem is one of the smallest for Estonia compared to the other countries of the European Union. But that doesn't mean that when things get out of control, it can't become a big problem. In a number of countries, the balance of the budget's revenue-costs has gone away quickly enough, in a short period of time. However, I am absolutely convinced that Estonia must continue to pursue conservative fiscal policies. Revenue and expenditure shall be in balance. As has been said earlier, politicians everywhere in Europe, in the world, always have thousands of excellent ideas about how to make people happy by using taxpayers' money or credit money. It is more difficult for politicians to avoid spending for beautiful purposes and to raise money for possible worse times. We have managed to collect and maintain reserves in Estonia so far, and I hope that this will continue to be the case in the future. The distribution of income and expenses between the central government and local government is probably an eternal issue that will never be resolved. I have worked for six years as a member of the Council of Europe's Congress of Local and Regional Municipalities and I can assure you that there is no country in Europe where local or regional authorities would find that they would have full money for the tasks that the country has placed on them. Some say that a quarter of the money needed to carry out the tasks is missing, while in other countries, four times the amount needed to enable the local government to carry out all the tasks assigned to it by the central government. I find that the financing of local government and the financing of central government functions in Estonia are in a good balance.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U98	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U99	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat my question, which I also asked the Chair of the Committee on European Union Affairs. This concerned potential liberals in the future European Commission. As far as I know, you were in Brussels a few days ago, and you also met the people of the ALDE party and the Group. Do you have more information about which countries are liberal candidates proposed by the European Commission and how many could there be in the future Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U100	Thank you. At the moment, only the Estonian Government has adopted a political decision that the Estonian Commissioner-designate will be a liberal. So far, I'm the only one. It may not be very nice for me to deal with many conjecture in this speech chair, but according to what appears in the press, for example, the Czech Republic could also be represented as a Commissioner by Liberal Pavel Telicka, who is known to Estonians primarily as the coordinator of the Rail Baltic project. As we know, in the Czech Republic, the European Parliament elections won the party ANO and their position is now very strong. I consider it very likely that Telicka will become a Czech candidate for Commissioner. You can speculate on a few more liberals, but there is not much basis for such speculation. Even in those countries where the Prime Minister is a liberal, a liberal may not necessarily become a Commissioner, because the coalition agreement provides a Commissioner for coalition partners and there are other reasons.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U101	Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U102	Thank you very much. Mr Ansip, candidate for a Member of the European Commission! In late summer, you will have a serious hearing in the European Parliament. Suppose you answer the question of a Member of the European Parliament's Committee on Gender Equality about your team. In particular, how much do you intend to follow the gender balance in your Commissioner's office? This means that you will be advised by both male and female high and very thorough advisors. Have you proposed, for example, to some of our top Estonian officials to work on their team?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U103	Thank you. I intend to follow the gender balance in the future office, but for the time being, I have an early opportunity to deal very seriously with it, because I am not a Commissioner. I do not know if I will be a Commissioner, if the President of the European Commission considers me suitable for this post. Before Parliament has discussed this, I do not know whether the European Parliament wants to see me in this office. Therefore, it is a little premature to prepare offices now. All the more so, even the area of administration that will be dealt with in the future by the Commissioner appointed from Estonia is not yet known. I do not believe very much in universal professionals and gender is not at all decisive here; rather, each administration still requires a very good knowledge of its area of administration. As long as the administration is not known, neither men nor women can be chosen at all. Once the administration is known, this option can become more specific.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U104	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U105	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to thank you very much. I asked the Prime Minister and I'll ask you. The Prime Minister confirmed that transport is a priority for European leaders in general. We know that the establishment of a high-speed rail connection has also been a priority for Mr Kallas personally. Could the Rail Baltic project fit into your personal priorities or rather not?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U106	Yeah, man doesn't change his views. As Prime Minister, I have also stood for European unification to be properly funded, and now I am pleased to say that it has succeeded. In the multiannual budgetary plan, Connecting Europe Facility, it has been very well funded. Connecting Europe is in the interests of Europe as a whole and in the interests of Estonia. Specifically, it is in Estonia's interest to unite Europe because we hope that the Connecting Europe Facility will provide funding for the construction of Rail Baltic. I am sure that Rail Baltic has been my preference and goal and will continue to do so in the future, regardless of the specific area of administration that I could ever pursue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U107	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U108	Thank you. Honourable candidate! In addition to being a government leader with really great experience, you are also a special candidate in front of the Riigikogu. In fact, as Commissioner, you also have the mandate of a Member of the European Parliament. This is not what we had in the past, nor have we had in the Commissioners. You yourself have said that this will be more useful when it comes to the appointment of a Member of the Commission. Rather, the current composition of the European Parliament believes that members of the Commission should be chosen from among its members. Do you see that the next European Parliament could take such decisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U109	Thank you. If in Estonia we consider it natural that a candidate for Prime Minister or Minister has a mandate from the Riigikogu, then it should be considered just as natural that members of the European Commission should also have a mandate from the European Parliament. This is not stated in the Treaties, nor does the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia state that the Prime Minister or the Minister should have the mandate of the Riigikogu. However, this political practice has developed in Estonia and I consider it right. Unfortunately, according to what is now known, Commissioners-designate with a mandate from the European Parliament will probably remain in a minority. Already mentioned as a possible candidate for the Czech Republic, who has not yet been nominated by the Government as Commissioner-designate, has a strong mandate from the European Parliament. I hope in the future that Europe will see such a tendency that candidates or members of a Member of the European Commission will also have a mandate from the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U110	Tiina Lock-Tramberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U111	Thank you, good vice chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, There are two points in the Europe-American Free Trade Agreement that have led the countries to two camps. One is the opening-up of a borderless market for products containing GMOs, and the other is also the opening-up of a borderless market for the audiovisual industry. What are your thoughts on these problems?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U112	Thank you. We're still negotiating. When the audiovisual market is fully opened, some countries in the European Union have clear reservations and, in my opinion, justified reservations. I believe that an agreement will finally be reached. The negotiations are always tense, complicated, the roads are winding, but it is important to reach a mutually satisfactory agreement. More broadly, for many people in Europe, it is not only a question of GMOs, but of food safety at all. Some are trying to create the impression that the US food safety standards are much more relaxed than those in Europe, and if we agreed to these standards, this would somehow worsen the health of Europeans. I don't think it makes much sense to think like that in black and white. We cannot imagine that in a country where every cardboard cup of coffee is written 'Watch, content is hot and can burn your mouth! ', a person's health is not cared for. Americans have a very long life expectancy, and Americans have a lot of healthy lives. Americans care about health very and very much. We should not take any view of their food safety rules as something modest or even inferior compared to Europe. But once again, the negotiations do not just postulate their positions, but bring the parties' views closer together. I very much hope that duty-free trade between the European Union and the United States will become a reality. It was only this Monday that I spoke in an open microphone about a small box of presents, a child's dress and chocolate, for which 28 euros of customs had to be paid. This is an unreasonable amount of money, and there is also a disproportionate cost of time for all this declaration.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U113	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U114	We should get rid of that.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U115	Honourable candidate for the European Commission and member of the Riigikogu Andrus Ansip, I thank you for your presentation and your answers. Is there a desire to negotiate? It's what you want. I'm opening negotiations. Arto Asa speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U116	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say a few things to finish. First of all, as regards the procedure, since it was a precedent in the history of the Riigikogu that we discussed such a question before the House, I think that this format will do well, there is no need to come up with any new very complicated rules of procedure. Since Andrus Ansip was asked to ask more questions than was the case, the next time we could just plan more time. Let us be honest, the next time is the summer of 2019 and then the candidate for the European Commission will probably be discussed by the next Riigikogu. But that doesn't mean we can't think about these procedures early. Hopefully, the interest of the members of the Riigikogu and all political groups will be even greater than today. Secondly, I would, of course, like to express my support for candidate Andrus Ansip. This is a very capable, very long-term person who is a dignified representative of Estonia. One small country cannot afford a weak Commissioner-designate. Large and old Member States can defend their interests in the European Union by other means too; a small country must go out in its best composition. There is solid support from the Reform Party Group for the government candidate. Good luck to Andrus Ansip!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U117	Thank you. Now I should actually say that the negotiations can also take part in the speeches on the ground. Igor Gräzin, you're next.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U118	Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. What's Andrus is there. I can just ask him.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U119	Andrus is there, but your name is in front of me, and I, as manager, have opened negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U120	No, that's not my name right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U121	Okay, you don't want to negotiate. Margus Hanson, please! Not in the hall. Would you like to participate in the negotiations? No, I don't. Maimu Berg?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U122	I would have liked to ask Mr. Ansip.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U123	There's nothing to do. We need to be faster. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U124	Dear Vice-Chairman, I would like to take this opportunity to make a few points on the procedure in which the various countries, including Estonia, are nominated by its Euro Commissioner. The Centre Party Group is of the opinion that Estonia could act as one of our closest neighbours, the Republic of Lithuania, where the candidate for Commissioner of the European Commission will be presented, and Parliament will also decide by vote. Of course, it is gratifying that we were at least able to ask questions in this House. But I would like to reiterate that, in our view, in future, the Commissioner-designate could be decided not only by the Government of the Republic, but by Parliament on a proposal from the Government of the Republic. And I also see no contradiction when, for example, it happens that the European Parliament or the future President of the Commission rejects the candidate proposed by our Parliament. The opinion has been expressed that, in this case, the Home State Parliament should resign because it has been mistrusted. The same question could be asked about the government, if there is a candidate for government who has been rejected in Europe, whether the government of the home country should resign. I don't see a problem here either, so I just wanted to mark it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U125	I now ask Karel Rüütel of the Riigikogu speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U126	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Andrus Ansip, Commissioner-designate of the European Commission. First of all, I welcome the fact that today, in this Chamber, we have a 'designate for Commissioner for the European Commission' debate as a key national issue. The Social Democrats have always held the view that Estonia, as a parliamentary democratic state, should have more discussions in Parliament on matters of national importance. The Commissioner of the European Commission is one of the most important positions in the management of the European Union. The success of the European Union as a whole depends to a large extent on the competence and ability of the person in that office. Yes, the nomination of a Member of the European Commission is within the competence of each Member State, but the future of each Member State and of the European Union as a whole depends on these members. In Estonia, the nomination of the Commissioner is currently exclusive to the executive power, and the public and the Riigikogu still lacked a substantive opportunity to contribute to this issue. I would like to point out that in 19 countries of the European Union Parliament is not involved in the submission of candidates; this privilege falls solely within the competence of the Government. Parliament and its bodies also have a certain role to play during the procedure for the nomination of Commissioners in seven European Union countries. These countries can be more or less divided into two countries. Firstly, countries in which Parliament is informed of the nomination and Parliament or its bodies, as a general rule, the Commission for European Union Affairs, can express an opinion on the candidate which is not binding on the government. Secondly, the countries in which Parliament and its body have the rights laid down by law to examine the candidate and the Commission, by its decision, formulates an opinion to that effect and also forwards it to the government. The fact that we are debating today a candidate for one of the most important positions in the European Union, rather than simply confirming this candidate by the government, is an important step towards a public and transparent decision-making process. The Social Democrats believe that in a parliamentary state, the right to appoint a candidate should belong to the Riigikogu, which would ensure a wider public debate on the suitability of the candidate and enable the candidate to demonstrate his competence and commitment to European affairs. Bringing the Commissioner's candidate to the Riigikogu is also part of the democratic package of social democracies that we presented to the Riigikogu proceedings at the beginning of the year. The Coalition Agreement between the Socialists and the Reform Party provides for the establishment of a procedure whereby the Government of the Republic will present a candidate for Commissioner of the European Commission before being appointed to the Riigikogu, which is certainly the right step. Unfortunately, although there was little time for discussion in the procedure, this is still a major step forward. With regard to today's debate, I am sure that Andrus Ansip, as long-term Head of Government, has the competence and knowledge to successfully defend the interests of both Estonia and the European Union in the European political corridors. The Social Democrats support the candidacy of Andrus Ansip as the long-standing Head of Government for the post of Commissioner of the European Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U127	Thank you very much. Please, Esther Tuiksoo, speaking on the spot, two minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U128	Thank you very much, Madam President. I take this opportunity to wish the future Commissioner good luck. It is a pleasure that you also attach great importance to agricultural issues, as they are sometimes considered more important in Europe than in Estonia. I would also like to say that, regrettably, the liberal position in Europe has become worse. I very much hope that our Commissioner, even if he cannot always stand up for Estonia's interests there, will at least protect the interests of the Liberals. So in any case, success and strength! And there's also a small note that maybe it doesn't always use a centner as a unit of measurement, but that's okay. Take care!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U129	Thank you. Tiit Tammsaar, as well as about two minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U130	Thank you, Madam President. Good Commissioner-designate! Perhaps a small home assignment to think about what might be asked in Europe. I think that, for example, the Environment Commissioner may not be a very utopian position for Estonia, that is, Mr Ansip. Given the great nature we have, 50% of Estonia's territory has a very good forest, etc. But one major task that Estonia has undertaken in Europe is to protect the great predators. The problem is that the Hunting Act, which came into force almost a year ago, tends to put the duration of the large predator population under a very serious threat. Today, hunters are forced to shoot a large number of large-scale cloven-hoofed animals, which is known to be a table for large predators. So we could seriously think about solving this dilemma. So good thinking to you and good luck in Europe!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U131	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. Since there is no need for the Riigikogu to take any decision in this debate, I would like to thank all those involved. The debate on the key national question 'A candidate for Commissioner for the European Commission' is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U132	Let's go to the next item. This is the second reading of Bill 691 of the Act amending the Government of the Republic Act and related amendments to other laws. For a presentation, please address the Chair of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rait Maruste!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U133	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, In this case, we are dealing with two drafts, 654 and 109, which, in their regulation, fall within the same area and are therefore merged during the procedure. But just in line. Draft 654, draft law amending the Government of the Republic Act and related amendments to other laws was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 21 April. a. For the first time, the draft was discussed by the Commission on 6 May 2014, the first reading was closed on 14 May 2014. The deadline for submitting the amendments was 10 working days, i.e. the deadline was 5.15 p.m. on 28 May. For the second reading, meetings of the Commission took place on 2 June and 9 June. Draft 109, the draft law amending the Government of the Republic Act, the Civil Service Act, the Civil Service Offices Act and the Law amending the Law on Auditing Activities was initiated by the delegates Eiki Nestor, Kalev Kotkas, Kalvi Tõvi and Sven Mikser on 12 October 2011. This draft was adopted by the Commission on 6 December 2011, the first reading was completed on 13 December 2011. From there, the bill stopped. At the meeting of the committee on Monday 9 June 2014, pursuant to § 101 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act, it was decided to merge draft 654 and draft 109. From there on, we consider them to be one bill. This draft was needed twice at second reading in the Commission. The deadline for submitting amendments was 28 May and no amendments were received within the deadline. However, the Commission itself made some clarifications and additions. State Secretary Heiki Loot, Head of the Legislative Department of the State Chancellery Margus Matt, Adviser to the Minister of Justice Kristen Kanarik, Head of the Public Law Service of the Ministry of Justice Illimar Pärnamägi and Adviser to the same department Monika Tappo took part in the meeting of the Commission. I will briefly present the amendments tabled by the Commission. The first of these supplements § 1 (3) of the draft. This is an explanatory amendment based on the principles of the parliamentary state that the legitimacy of the structure of executive power comes from Parliament. The amendment states that the Prime Minister will introduce the basis of government formation to the Riigikogu before submitting a list of ministers and their titles to the President of the Republic. The Commission decided to support this proposal by 6 votes to 2 with 3 abstentions. The second amendment deals in some respects with technical issues, such as what must be included in the order of the Prime Minister, in so far as the division of work within the government is determined by the Prime Minister's own order, which in turn designates a minister who is not in charge of the ministry, but in charge of the fields of activity. A clause was also included that the Prime Minister may issue his order in electronic form. The Commission supported this proposal in the following way: 6 Commission members were in favour, no one opposed, with 3 abstentions. The following, the third proposal is a technical clarification, which excludes from the law some unnecessary technical details on the grounds that the law does not need to provide for an obligation to amend the statutes of government agencies and bodies they administer solely because of a change of title of minister. The Commission supported this proposal by 6 members of the Commission, no one opposed it, with 4 abstentions. The fourth proposal is broader and this led to some discussion within the Commission. The content of the proposal is that specific names of sectoral ministers are removed from the existing laws, which are replaced by the word 'Minister responsible for the field'. The amendment also applies to the length of time that this restructuring should take place. There was a long debate on this and we found that it could be within six months. We also had a discussion about whether this amendment should be made retroactively in all legislation or, however, only in the law for a limited period of time, or whether it is practical to change backwards at all. The proposal led to an intensive debate on whether this is the most sensible and necessary change or whether it is a halfway point. It was found that the proposed solution is, in some way, a transitional solution, a quick solution, but it certainly deserves to be further developed, both constitutionally and administratively. Finally, the Commission decided to support this proposal by 6 members of the Commission, no one opposed it, with 4 abstentions. The fifth amendment is technical in nature. This concerns the representation of the State in companies. According to the original plan, the draft was intended to specify that the State is represented in the company by a minister of a particular ministry. The proposal excludes this clarification from the draft as the State Assets Act does not require detailed and binding regulation of matters relating to the internal organisation of the government. This proposal was supported as follows: 6 members of the Commission were in favour, 1 against and 2 abstentions. The proposal was followed by a general debate on the significance of the speech and administration of the candidate Prime Minister. This debate was, in principle, held forwards, not so much on the basis of a specific draft. In general, it was found to be correct that the government's organisation should be based on political priorities and the need for effective governance. This direction was supported and such emphasis should be clearly set out in a presentation by the Prime Minister's candidate, where he explains the structure of his government according to priorities and needs. The Commission noted that in future the Prime Minister must pay greater attention to this part of his report. It has also been said, I repeat, that in the future it will be necessary to address this issue in greater depth and to develop more appropriate, systematic solutions, both constitutionally and administratively. However, this cannot be done very quickly, as it requires time and deepening. The sixth proposal is on the entry into force of the law. This law should enter into force on 1 July. a. There were 6 members of the Commission in favour, 5 against and no abstentions. The Commission's decisions were as follows: firstly, to put the draft on the plenary agenda on 12 June, i.e. today (with 6 votes against, 3 abstentions); secondly, to propose that the second reading be stopped (again, 6 votes against, 5 abstentions); thirdly, to send the draft to third reading when the second reading is closed by 18 June (by 6, 4 abstentions); fourthly, to propose the final vote on the draft. That is briefly all that was to be said about this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U134	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. Please, Jaak Aaviksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U135	Good waitress! During the debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the topic repeatedly arose that the law of the Government of the Republic should be amended a little more closely in several respects, including the changes currently under discussion, the institution of the Chancellor, the status of the Minister, etc. and the relationship between these amendments and the Constitution. Unfortunately, the draft law that was tabled came to the procedure, I would say, on a speedy basis, and there were only ten days to make amendments. This means that, unfortunately, no more serious work was being undertaken. What could be the reason? How can you see what could, could and should come back to this subject?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U136	Thank you. I fully agree with your arguments. This is a fast-track solution that really needs to be deepened and more time. In fact, this change should be prepared, both in public law, to look at how it fits into the existing constitutional scheme, as well as in terms of administrative law, to decide how the administrative management of executive power would look and how to distinguish between political and administrative management. These are deep issues that cannot be resolved so quickly. But since we received the bill relatively quickly, we too had to proceed quickly, as you know. As I recall, we were quite united in the Commission that we will continue to deal with the matter. What exactly does it look like to go on, I can't tell you right now. It is possible that we should form a group of people who know one field or also negotiate with the government. Perhaps by the time the next government is formed, we will have a better draft so that these issues are more systematically worked out and better organised. I admit, it's not okay.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U137	Thank you. Please, Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U138	Ladies and gentlemen, The debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, if I remember correctly, was divided into two parts, two or three times. There was substantial work and discussion on how the current Government Act could be amended in order for the government to be able to react more dynamicly, flexibly, effectively if you want to react cheaperly, more rationally and plan your actions. Both the members of the Commission and the invited experts and representatives of national authorities agreed that changes were needed and could be made for the next incoming government. I am pleased that the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs agreed to this plan here, too, and I had the impression that such an understanding was also prevalent in the committee. This is something that we are seriously pleased about and perhaps, despite the forthcoming decisions, we will also be able to do this substantive work before Midsummer. Unfortunately, the meetings of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs were a decisive part of another world. Decisions had to be taken and it had to be understood that these decisions had actually been taken. In the press, we read that even ministers have taken up office under new titles. That is why today, in fact and in essence, we are dealing not with the draft law amending the Government Act, but with the draft law amending the Kruus and Sulling portfolio. I'm sorry. I also regret the good colleagues from ministers Kruus and Sullingus that their profession involves activities that are not very good practice of political culture. It would have been better for them, too, if all of this had been thought through and done well, so that they could do their job on an equal footing with other ministers. That is why it is very difficult for me to support the swift adoption of this law here, because the bad taste remains in the mouth of all decision-makers. Knowing that this work should be better and substantive, we are actually working on parliamentaryising the political decisions that have already been made, which I would not like to take on my conscience. As my partymates and political groupmates agree, I propose that the second reading be interrupted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U139	Thank you. Any more calls? No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Seven amendments to this draft have been tabled by the lead committee. Let us examine these amendments. Amendment 1 is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the decision of the commission is to take full account of, No 2... Please, Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U140	Thank you. I ask for this amendment to be voted on, and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U141	Thank you. Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U142	Honourable Riigikogu! The ten-minute break taken by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance has ended. I am voting on Amendment 2, which has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the proposal of the commission is to take full account of. Please take a stand and vote. 50 delegates voted in favour, no one opposed, with two abstentions. The proposal was therefore supported. Amendment 3 is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. Please, Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U143	Thank you. This, too, is a very important amendment to this weighty law. I ask you to vote on it and before this ten-minute break!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U144	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U145	Honourable Riigikogu! The ten-minute break has come to an end, and we shall proceed to the vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 3, which has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, proposed by the commission of directors, to be fully taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 51 delegates voted in favour, there were no respondents or abstentions. The proposal was therefore supported. In the meantime, the wish of the Social Democratic Party Group and the Reform Party Group to extend the Thursday session has been received. I'll put it to a vote. Please, Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U146	Before the vote, I ask you for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U147	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U148	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the wish of the Group of the Social Democratic Party and the Reform Party to extend the period of the Thursday sitting until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote. 41 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 14 against and 1 abstention. So the hearing has been extended. Amendment 4 has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. Please, Karel Knight!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U149	Thank you. We are asking for this amendment to be voted on, and before that we will take a one-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U150	One minute break. Please, Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U151	Thank you. I understand that Mr Rüütel asked for a break, but I think one minute is not enough. Consequently, please extend the break to 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U152	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U153	Thank you. Honourable waitress! We have now, although for a very short time, been able to look in practice at the two ministers operating side by side in one ministry. They should somehow be able to run the ministry with one accord, but there are already first examples of internal opposition. For example, work capacity reform. Minister Kütt says that it is poorly prepared and not ripe for adoption, and there is still a lot of work to be done with it. However, Mr Kruuse feels that on the contrary, this is a very good and mature draft that could be carried forward at a speedy pace. How do you assess what this ministry's work should look like in this case? How is effectiveness and effectiveness achieved in practice if even ministers of one ministry have different opinions?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U154	Thank you. It is not, in itself, news that ministers disagree and sometimes enter into disputes. The speciality of the case you mentioned is that there are two ministers in one ministry, which is only an executive. Their views may differ, but it still happens in a democratic society, which is to be welcomed. So that I do not overstate this particular situation in the case of fresh ministers, these things will be settled. But indeed, for the future, we should come up with some way of resolving the different opinions of the two ministers. Perhaps Parliament should prescribe some internal rules for the executive. I am not quite sure whether it is within our competence or not, but I am certainly prepared to discuss it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U155	Thank you. Please, Jaak Aaviksoo, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U156	Thank you. Good waitress! I am pleased that you accept the need to revise the Government Act and see that it could remain the responsibility of the next parliament and its incoming government. Do you think it is possible for this initiative to be taken by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U157	I am not going to rule this out, but then we should not decide this quickly, but in the future we should consult the State Chancellery and also the Government. If we find it reasonable and necessary, and we can do it, why not?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U158	Thank you. Please, Kaia Iva, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U159	Thank you. When you answered Mr Aaviksoo's question, you even admitted that this was an urgent draft, and you have also dealt with it as a matter of urgency. However, there is no direct need for this; Parliament is free in its decisions and also in the choice of the pace of work. Haven't you considered taking time off in the process and making it a decent thing, rather than taking such a semi-fabric at an extremely short time? Perhaps today we could also stop reading it and go on with the substantive work. It's not too long for this government, maybe it could be a good product.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U160	Thank you. We were talking about what kind of road was right. There were the same opinions as you have just expressed, and there were different opinions. In order to organise government at a practical and technical level, both the people of the State Chancellery and the Head of Government considered it necessary that the minimum be made and fixed. This would prevent a number of actions from being challenged or ambiguity in this respect. We will try as well as we can in this time frame to fulfil this condition or assumption. But I will come back again so that I also think that the subject needs a deeper and more detailed, more systematic study. I hope we can do this.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U161	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U162	Thank you. President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs! I come back to a practical question relating to this draft. Will these changes lead to the use of state budget resources? I remember from experience that when we tried to put a new street name on labels in the city, for example, it took a lot of money to arrange it. Did you talk about it in the committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U163	A direct estimate of how much this change could lead to costs, we have not done. It was a question of how much technical work was added to the Ministry of Justice by making retroactive adjustments to the law. At first, the idea was to make changes to laws and laws, regulations and orders, and they asked for two years to do so. In the end, we came to the conclusion that the changes would only be made to the law and would take six months. Of course, it can be said that it takes six months to pay. There were no calculations on the table for what this change would cost.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U164	Thank you. Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U165	Thank you. Honourable Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs! Can the Minister's door be attached to the label 'Government Regulatory Minister', as is intended to be included in the bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U166	I can't tell you what kind of sign the government puts on the doors of their corridors. However, serious work is needed on what should be included in the Prime Minister's order for the division of competences and responsibilities in these posts. This is going to be a kind of constitutional act that should be better copied and clearer than the current one we have.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U167	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Rait Maruse! Let's open the negotiations. Please, Jaak Aaviksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U168	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 4, which has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. Please take a stand and vote. 40 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no votes against or abstentions. The proposal was therefore supported. Amendment 5 is made by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 6 is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. Proposal No 7 is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. All amendments have been examined. Since the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union had to propose that the second reading of the draft law be interrupted, we must vote through it. Let's get to the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I will... Please, Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U169	I ask for five minutes of recess before the vote!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U170	I've already announced the vote. You should have taken a break before the call. I am voting on the proposal by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union to interrupt the second reading of the draft law amending the Government of the Republic Act and related amendments to other laws 691. Please take a stand and vote. 6 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 34 against and no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Second reading of the bill is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U171	Let's go to the next, sixth item. This is the second reading of the draft law amending the Riigikogu Election Act and other laws initiated by the Constitutional Committee. I would like to present Mr Andres Herkel, member of the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U172	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft law amending electoral laws relates primarily to the technical organisation of elections and makes procedures clearer and streamlined. I introduced the draft points as representative of the initiator at first reading on 13 May. No amendments were received from the members of the Riigikogu within the deadline set. The Commission prepared three proposals with technical content. And there is another proposal, in the list of amendments No 2, which is slightly more substantive. Only this proposal was given a little more attention at the Commission meeting on 3 June to prepare a second reading of the draft. The question is whether and how data on the applicant's education should be reflected in the application. I remind you, according to the bill...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U173	Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen. I can't hear what the waitress is saying because there's a very loud conversation at the back of the hall. Please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U174	Thank you! I don't know when I lost my hearing, so I'll pick up where I stopped. According to the draft, candidates will submit a single application in all the elections, replacing the two previously used documents, as well as the candidate's application form. In the original version of the draft, educational data were excluded from the application. However, some members of the Commission raised this issue in the view that educational data provide important information about the candidate, which should be included in the application. It was considered that it would make sense to include them there. The question was also raised as to why the Republic Election Commission was initially of the opinion that these data should be deleted. The answer was that the candidates have filled these boxes in vastly different ways. And so far, the information obtained from applications on people's education has not been uniform. The Commission agreed on this issue with representatives of the Election Commission of the Republic so that we could, however, include information on education in the application form. However, in order to ensure a certain degree of consistency, the Electoral Commission should further explain in its guidance how it is advisable to include these data in the statement. The remaining amendments, as I said, were of a technical nature. Amendment 1 removes one incorrect reference. Amendment 3 refers to the fact that, if it is possible to vote in a hospital and a day care institution without a prior request in the future, it is correct to define the rules in a way that is prescribed by the relevant district committee appointed by the municipality. Finally, Amendment 4 concerns the electoral card for the referendum. In fact, the term 'choiceer' had gone wrong, but in the case of a referendum, the term 'voter' is the correct term. It would also be right to put a question to the referendum on this hitchhiker card or the title of the corresponding bill. So many of the amendments and the Commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-12_U175	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you, Andres Herkel. Is there a desire to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. Let's examine the amendments, there are four. Amendment 1 has been tabled by the commission and has been fully taken into account, no 2 has been fully taken into account, no 3 has been fully taken into account. Proposal No 4 has been presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and has been fully taken into account. The amendments have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 617. Second reading is complete. So our agenda is exhausted and the hearing is over. I wish everyone a beautiful weekend and I'll see you next week! Closure of the sitting at 13.10 a.m.
