ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U1	Prime Minister! Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen, Good afternoon. We're starting today's briefing. First, we'll do a presence check. 36 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, 65 are missing. Let's get to today's agenda. The following members of the Government will take part in the Question Hour: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher and Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U2	The first questioner is Mailis Reps. The question is for Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, the subject is rail transport. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U3	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I will ask you all about the topical issue, which, I must say, is the most common topic of this new year in families too. As a Tartian, you certainly agree that major changes in train traffic brought about very bad situations, even if people had to stand up on the Tallinn and Tartu routes for a long time. Now, if you look back at this frustration and the many-spoken carrot trains in the crowd, have you, in government reviews, summarised your assessment of this transition? What shortcomings have you found in the ministry and minister's work?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U4	Thank you, good questioner! I'd be very careful labelling those trains. I understand that sometimes you think generously about old trains you once marched in front of them in a commercial, but I don't want to call new trains for carrot trains. In my opinion, this is a fundamental change in the history of Estonian rail transport. We replace inefficient trains more than 30 years old with new trains produced in very modern Switzerland. In principle, this step is justified. We didn't have a second choice, because the old trains would no longer have been able to be serviced after 2015. The only choice was to buy new trains. I admit that the introduction of new trains should have been smoother. Too many changes came to a specific date and due to the large number of changes, not all the changes could be planned well enough. There have been a variety of obstacles. However, it cannot be said that there could have been some way to dispel these changes. If trains still come into operation that move 15% faster, old timetables cannot be kept. Of course, we need to change the charts. It is not conceivable that the timetables will get old, but the train will go faster, but it will stay somewhere on the station for a long time. As far as changing the ticket selling system is concerned, in earlier times only electric railways were involved and diesel trains were not. New routes came, but probably before 1 January, this issue could not have been dealt with very seriously either. Too bad there's been a glitch, but it's a good thing we have new trains.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U5	Thank you. Good Prime Minister, please stop for two minutes! There are more questions. Mailis Reps, first supplementary question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U6	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! In addition to the bottlenecks you mentioned, many passengers have been puzzled by the fact that it was known that some of the purchased diesel trains would be received much later and that fewer seats on new trains than in the old ones would be available. Some trains have more than twice the number of seats. Why were missing trains not borrowed from another carrier? There's been a lot of discussion around this in the press. Minister Parts has explained that South Western Railway wanted utopian sums to ensure that there was a shortage of capacity. Southwest railway has repeatedly denied it. I'm sure you've had this conversation in the government. What kind of information do you have on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U7	One that should certainly have been absent from the old trains in the transition from new trains is the same conflict between South Western Railway and Elron or between the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The transition could indeed have been smoother, as you said. More effort should have been made to continue working with South Western Railway until all new trains are available. The Government and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications wanted to acquire new trains by 1 January 2015. But the procurement was won by a company that agreed to make these trains at the cheapest price by 1 July 2014 at the latest. We couldn't have left any new trains standing by the wall to keep the old trains under contract until the end of 2014. Unfortunately, there were conflicts with South Western Railways. I find it difficult to assess whether they could have been prevented or not. I certainly would have tried to cope without conflicts. I would have tried to work more with South Western Railway so that these temporary difficulties didn't arise. This is a mistake that has been made and that it is probably no longer possible to correct afterwards.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U8	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps, another supplementary question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U9	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Certainly, the position of both the Ministry and the Government is important. One of the major disputes that we have been able to follow from the press is whether rail traffic is cheaper for the taxpayer or more expensive for the public company. Elron's leaders have tried to prove that it is cheaper, as has the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications. South-west railway has argued the opposite: it will ultimately be much more expensive to the taxpayer. Has the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications presented a comprehensive cost-benefit analysis within the government which proves that the service offered by Elron is cheaper than buying it from South Western Railway, for example? Could you say here today what the state's savings will be in this case?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U10	The size of this savings has been discussed by representatives of both Elron and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. That's what I have in these papers somewhere, not in my memory. There's no doubt there's savings. We have an increase of 4% this year in state subsidies for passenger transport by rail, while the number of train kilometres increases by 50%. The number of passengers is projected to increase by almost 25%. The beginning of the year confirms that these forecasts will probably be exceeded; they have not been too optimistic. Thus, in terms of the subsidy granted by the State, the transport of one passenger becomes cheaper. The new trains are definitely more sustainable. They can be used much more flexibly than old trains. At the end of last year, after Christmas, I was on vacation. I came from Otepää skiing and stood two nights behind the barrier, the train went from Tartu to Elva. On one occasion, the train, which weighs 200 tons and accommodates 500 people, had four passengers, the other even less. With the same 200-ton train running on four passengers, you pay, I pay, the anonymous taxpayer pays. New trains are much more flexible: there are two wagons, three wagons, four wagons, it is possible to connect these trains, it is possible to add wagons during rush hour. This is a much more effective use of taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U11	Thank you. Now to the issues registered on the ground. For each point, I can allow two on-the-spot questions. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U12	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! These trains were, of course, expected, but the people also expected a little more comfort so that they would not have to go on their feet to Tartu. And maybe they were hoping to get a cup of coffee on that train. But the question now is, above all, that Elron's leader Ossip communicates with the people in a position of power, expressing doubts about the need for everyone to sit down. He has never apologized and admitted that we failed. And neither has the Minister of Economic Affairs Parts really made a strong statement on this, conceding that he should have done more, monitored more and thought about how to better manage the transition. What are you now evaluating the activities of the Minister for Economic Affairs? Could he have done his job better?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U13	Thank you. If, indeed, no one has ever apologized for the inconvenience caused to the people so far, I am doing so now. These inconveniences were not justified. They may understand, but things could have been better planned and avoided. Of course, people travelling from Tartu to Tallinn do not have to stand on the train. It is also necessary to ensure the transport of all those who wish, even though the number of passengers has increased by 25% compared to last year. It is also not justified that new trains are not intended for catering, especially when we are talking about longer journeys, for example, in the section of Tartu-Tallinn. I have sailed on trains like this in Switzerland and it offers a minimum amount of food available for soft drinks, coffee, tea, cakes, biscuits. I cannot imagine that in Estonia it could be unprecedentedly expensive, certainly some private companies are willing to offer such a service to Elron. Apparently, the planners missed it, not meant for the comfort of the passengers. This mistake certainly needs to be corrected as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U14	Thank you. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U15	Thank you. Prime Minister! You're basically talking about details in your answers. I'd like to expand my grip a little bit. It is clear that passenger service has deteriorated with the arrival of new trains. That's a fact. Point 2: Today it's two weeks, 15 days it's been going on. As we're reading in today's papers, there were big stops yesterday, three trains didn't leave. Here's my question. Have you heard that among the people, Elron's actions are compared to those of the government and parallels are drawn? The same as Elron is the Estonian government. These expressions are taken from comments. Are you going to talk seriously to the Minister for Economic Affairs, analyse the situation? Errors repeated: Estonian Air, Estonian Energia oil shale industry somewhere in America. Now we've gone down by train. On Monday we will discuss ferry traffic here in the Riigikogu. What's your fortress about? Aren't you afraid that Ducks can just as easily screw up the next thing?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U16	The Heritage Foundation has made a very good assessment of the activities of the Government of the Republic. In praising Estonia's economic freedom, he mentions the effective work of the Government of the Republic in maintaining public finances. It makes no sense for me to justify the mistakes that have been made in introducing new trains. I don't want to justify them. This whole process should have been designed in such a way as to avoid inconvenience for passengers. But in the long run, I am convinced that all the implementation inconveniences will be overcome and that the people will be satisfied with our passenger trains, just as they are now satisfied with the digital prescription. To remind you: once, when the digital prescription was introduced, the process was accompanied by general media resentment, but now our Estonian people are satisfied with the digital prescription. Not only is it admired all over the world.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U17	Thank you very much. We will stick to the fact that for each of the main issues, two questions can be submitted on-the-spot. This issue is therefore exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U18	The second questioner, Helmen Kütt, is on the agenda, but he took back his question. The next questioner is Peter Võsa, who has a question about the fine rates for Home Secretary Ken-Marti Vaher. Please, Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U19	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, In fact, I have a question of raising the minimum daily level of the financial penalty. It will rise from EUR 3.2 to EUR 10. I'm asking you to explain to me this. Am I right to understand that, if the person who committed the crime is chosen to impose a financial penalty and has been paid, the daily rate will be calculated from there, and if this has not been done, then EUR 10 will be the basis on which the financial penalty will be imposed? This increase is a total increase of 312,5%, a terrible one. How are these amounts to be recovered?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U20	Thank you for your question. You are probably currently dealing with the draft revision of penal law, which has reached Parliament and was drawn up by the Committee on the Revision of Penal Law. A bill was submitted to the government by the Ministry of Justice. What can I say as Minister of the Interior? This amendment concerns different levels of punishment, especially for offences against property. The object is in particular the petty thefts covered by § 218 of the Penal Code. This simply means that the criminal penalty rate is currently EUR 65. If this threshold is exceeded in the case of theft, criminal proceedings shall be followed if the price of the stolen case is less than EUR 65, the offence to be dealt with under the misdemeanour procedure. On a proposal from the Ministry of Justice, the government has sent a draft to Parliament where this rate is really being raised. It is up to Parliament to decide to what extent this will be done. We also had a debate in the government about it. The position of the Ministry of the Interior is that it does not seem reasonable to increase to such an extent. In parliamentary proceedings, in particular in the Committee on Legal Affairs, many parties could be heard and a compromise could be found. This mainly concerns shoplifting. I can say so much that in two thirds of shoplifting, the damage is less than EUR 20.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U21	Thank you. Any further questions? Please, Peter Võsa, the first question to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U22	Thank you. Right now, we were talking about physical persons. My next question concerns the same thing, but the legal entities for which the minimum level of the financial penalty rises from EUR 3200 to EUR 4000, which will only increase by 25%. Somehow very unequal are these ups. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U23	Thank you for your question. As a background, the concept of revision of penal law has been developed for quite a number of years. This working group was, in my opinion, very authoritative and consisted of Estonia's best experts, who considered different aspects of both misdemeanour and criminal proceedings, particularly from the point of view of substantive law, which is mainly reflected in the Penal Code. They reviewed the compositions of misdemeanours, criminal formations. As far as the responsibility of the legal person is concerned, it is again Parliament's consideration. The increase in the rate is justified in any case. Could this rise be somewhat higher? As far as I know, for quite a few offences, the rate is increasing more. However, the maximum liability of a legal person for criminal penalties is already significant in the Penal Code. This, of course, concerns more serious crime formations. Parliament can conduct this debate this year and try to find a reasonable balance between the different rates. This must certainly take into account the amounts that the State can actually obtain. If we return to a natural person for a moment, then even petty thefts are not only financial penalties, but also actual arrests. They're gonna be assigned. One can say so much that on average we have four people in custody a day for petty thefts. This is clearly the subject of the application of the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U24	Thank you. Please, Peter Võsa, another supplementary question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U25	Thank you. Really, a lot of work has been done. There are quite a few drafts on the table concerning the Penal Code, the misdemeanour procedure and everything else involved. I want to draw attention to Bill 500 of the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure. From 81 'Differents of the hearing of a Alaelis witness', I read that the defendant may invite a child protection officer, a social worker, a pedagogue or a psychologist to the hearing of a minor witness if the witness is younger than 14 years of age and the hearing relates to violence. I understand that if a social worker is involved in the interrogation of a minor witness, violence can be used. How do you understand that sentence? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U26	Good Peter! I thank you for reading a very long and certainly convincing sentence with the femininity you have in a hurry. The Ministry of Justice has indeed prepared and the government has discussed a number of drafts. The Code of Misdemeanour Procedure aims in particular at simplifying the misdemeanour procedure. Experts have said that the current misdemeanour procedure is more complex and bureaucratic than the fast-track procedures in criminal proceedings. This is definitely not normal. Last summer Parliament approved the simplification package for misdemeanour procedures presented by the Ministry of the Interior. Thanks to this, we will, above all, gain more traffic surveillance and reduce the bureaucracy associated with one of the perpetrators. You are currently discussing one of the major packages in Parliament, which aims to do the same: to reduce the bureaucracy of the procedures to be carried out, to increase the possibility of focusing on the main activity and certainly also the protection of minors. I think that the protection of minors is one of the issues on which Parliament could spend more time, bearing in mind different procedures: both those involving a minor victim and those involving a young offenders. The perpetrators are also minors who have been apprehended on the use of alcohol or drugs, for example. The question is whether it is reasonable to restrict itself to punishing them or whether they should be tried to help them with counselling and certain social services. I am pleased to say that within the area of government of the Ministry of the Interior, progress is being made towards helping underage victims as much as possible, as well as bringing the offenders back to an abiding path.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U27	Thank you. Minister, please stay within two minutes of your response. Now, one issue registered on the spot. Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U28	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! You've already partially answered my question, but I'm asking you a little differently. Raising the financial rate of forensics creates much controversy in society, as we can see from the media. Since I, as a politician, have to decide on this and debate it with the members of the group, I have a question. The number of offences will certainly increase by increasing the criminalisation rate to 200 euros. Does this bring any financial savings to the police? Have there been any calculations at the Home Office of how much police could save money by giving up criminal proceedings for petty theft and direct it to the resolution of more serious crimes?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U29	Thank you for your question. As I mentioned in my reply, I would rather agree that Parliament could find a reasonable compromise between EUR 65 and EUR 200. More than three times the increase is not justified at the moment, in my opinion this rate should be adjusted. It's really in place in the year 2000. I am absolutely sure that Parliament will find a constructive and reasoned solution with the involvement of the various parties. As far as the resource is concerned, this is also an obvious point of consideration. Today, we can say that, unfortunately, the misdemeanour procedure does not save state resources in any way. That is why a number of legislative amendments have been tabled to reduce red tape in misdemeanour proceedings, if the damage to petty theft really falls below a certain level. Like I said, most shoplifters qualify as crimes against property. Indeed, the absolute majority of shopliftings are those with a loss of less than EUR 20. So it can be said that we do not foresee any very large shift in the use of resources. Of course, if there are less minor offences, criminal investigators will spend more time solving other crimes, even more serious ones, while the law enforcement police will have more resources in misdemeanour proceedings. I might add that every year the number of crimes against property and the number of offences have decreased by 10%. This trend persists. The trend is very positive, that is, a general reduction in crime in the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U30	Thank you. There are no further issues registered on the spot. Let us close this debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U31	The next questioner is Jaan Apple Tree. The question is for Prime Minister Andrus Ansip and once again for passenger train traffic. Please, Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U32	Prime Minister! I took a train from Tartu to Tallinn on Sunday evening during rush hour. It has to be said that the problems that existed here in the first days of the year were also present that day. Some people stopped in Tapa, and there was trouble selling tickets. But I want to draw attention to another subject. It is completely incomprehensible that the minimum quality requirements for diesel trains travelling in Estonia will apply from 1 April, although trains are already running from the beginning of the year. In particular, the fact that the Ministry knows that Elron is violating a contract with the state doesn't do anything to call the company to order. The calls in this style, as the Minister has done, that do not stand by, get to work, are, in my opinion, a hindsight and quite inappropriate. What do you think about that? Is that what it's supposed to be?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U33	That statement is news to me. Everyone in Estonia, including state-owned companies, must comply with the law. If your claim is true, of course, it is extremely regrettable. Of course, however, it should not be assumed that the trains tested in Switzerland are in any way unusable in Estonia. This technology has been developed over the decades in Stadler and is probably well-used in Estonia as well. Obviously, the mismatch that you have referred to, if it is true, must be classified under transitional difficulties. I do, however, want to encourage you and all other potential passengers. On the electric railway, the transition to new trains resulted in 25% more passengers. It's a really big growth. When we think about Tallinn's public transport, only 1% of passengers were added, while new trains brought 25% more passengers on the electric railway. This confirms once again the fact that people are particularly attracted to the good quality of public transport. With new trains, when the transition difficulties have been overcome, the quality will certainly improve. The speed of driving is something else, the acceleration of trains is something else, the smoothness of driving is completely different. You can also choose between more departures.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U34	Thank you. Please, Jaan Apple Tree, the first supplementary question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U35	Thank you. I understand the company's having trouble adjusting and growing up. I hope that time will heal these wounds, especially when new trains, which are currently missing, arrive in Estonia. However, I want to touch on regional policy in my question. I have been approached by a number of local government leaders, such as Tabivere and Rakke municipality. The problem is one. During rush hours, trains are made for high-speed trains; in small places they do not stop. People who live in a smaller settlement and want to go to work or school in Tartu, Jõgeva or Tallinn will be deprived of some of the travel opportunities. From 1 June, the schedule will be rescheduled. Do you think it would be necessary to consider them much more from the point of view of regional policy and to take more account of the proposals of local government leaders and small-scale residents?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U36	The cooperation between local authorities and a state-owned company is, in my opinion, entirely natural. I assume it is this cooperation that has resulted in the current timetables. But there are more trains, and the manufacturer keeps handing over new trains to Elron, and that also means that the number of departures will increase. The driving comfort is quite different from the old Riga and Russian trains. People can choose the time to start driving from point A to point B. Of course, it used to be a choice, but trains rarely came. I very much hope that the timetables will be made in such a way that they will be comfortable for as many people as possible. There are certainly prerequisites for this.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U37	Thank you. Please, Jaan Apple Tree, another supplementary question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U38	Thank you. I'm going a little further from domestic train traffic to Rail Baltic. Ministers of Poland, Finland and the Baltic States were known to sign an agreement in September last year, which should serve as a basis for the creation of a joint railway community. So far, this joint venture has not been set up. Lithuania has started to insist in recent months that the route pass through Vilnius. The day before yesterday, the Lithuanian Minister of Transport announced that if Estonia and Latvia did not agree that the Rail Baltic route would pass Vilnius, the whole project could fail. The cost of the project is known to be three billion euros and has been dealt with very hard in Estonia. What do you say to the Lithuanian platform?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U39	Thank you. I do not want to comment on the press-mediated statements. I know that all three Baltic States have agreed that the connection to Vilnius will be merged with the Rail Baltic project. But that doesn't mean Rail Baltic's gonna make zigzags. The route must continue along the most direct route and from other cities that Rail Baltic does not pass directly, it must be possible to get there quickly. In the same way, passenger transport is organised in Switzerland. There is, for example, no direct connection between Zurich and Sankt Moritz, although it is known that at least during the ski resort there are quite a number of passengers. In the meantime, we're gonna have to reschedule. Passenger transport is designed there primarily on the basis of the regional principles you have emphasised. It is not possible to organise passenger transport economically in such a way that only two cities can be connected. Obviously, careful consideration must be given to how trans-national passenger transport can be combined with regional interests.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U40	Thank you. Now two issues registered on the spot. Please, Rein Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U41	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! As we know from the end of May this year, the timetable for passenger trains will change. The people of Estonia, as well as our guests, will be able to connect in the southern region in both Tartu and Valga. Are you convinced that by then, Elron will have eliminated the current problems and that the new system will operate relatively smoothly? Secondly, what do you know about the organisation of international passenger train traffic on the route Tallinn-Tartu-Tartu-Valga-Riga?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U42	I have no more knowledge in this area than the Estonian people as a whole. There is currently no international train traffic from Riga to Tartu. If we ever really start to travel from Tallinn to Warsaw by high-speed train, I assume that getting this train from Tartu or Valga is not a problem. This same example of electric railway assures us that, if the quality of passenger transport is good, people prefer public transport, when quality is poor, it is not used. So quality must be good. Both boarding and train travel must be convenient, then it will be used and then there will be a decent ticket revenue. Once again, the number of passengers on the electric railway has increased by 25% as a result of new trains.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U43	Thank you. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U44	Thank you, Madam President. Good Prime Minister! In my opinion, the debate around passenger trains is clearly organised by two or three men, with the help of the media. In yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs, I became more aware that there were no problems and that these were minor transitional difficulties: another company had started working instead of one company. I think the country took the right step when it took care of it. But here's my question. Have you thought about rail transport in general? Instead, we have serious problems with freight transport by rail, the volume of freight transport is decreasing. Has the government thought about how to go to the aid of these companies this year?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U45	Thank you. I would very much like to agree with your assessment, but I cannot. I don't think all the resentment that looks back on the press is caused by some PR or two or three men. There have been clear reasons for this resentment. There should have been no reason to do so; the transition to new trains should have been better organised. I hope that these transitional difficulties will soon be overcome. But under no circumstances do I want to consider the problems that arose during the changeover to be inevitable. They were not inevitable, they could have been prevented. The volume of freight transport in the east-west has decreased, mainly because Russia's very significant investments in Ust-Luga, Primorsk and also in the port of St Petersburg have started to generate revenue, these ports can increasingly be exploited. It is no wonder that Russian companies prefer to export goods using their own ports. I hope that north-south rail transport, when Rail Baltic is finished, will add more freight capacity than has been reduced in the east-west direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U46	Thank you very much. The debate on this issue is also over.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U47	Let's go to the next question. The questioner is Inara Luigas, this is about the welfare of children for Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U48	Thank you. Dear Minister, As you know, yesterday the Statistical Office's collection of children's well-being was presented. What it means for the well-being of children, I don't have to explain to you here today. The figures in the collection are far from positive. I'll get some of them. In deep poverty, deep material deprivation, 22,000 children live in Estonia, and 23,000 children live in absolute poverty. Some figures have improved, but the situation as a whole has got worse. However, it has not intimidated you, the government continues to pursue exactly the social policy it has driven, and the children are increasingly in poverty. The only thing you've done is need-based family support, which doesn't even reach 10 euros. You have taken the right to rule the country. Who has given you the right to pursue such a social policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U49	All my rights come from Parliament, and all Parliament's rights come from the Estonian people who have elected us. I thank you for asking me a question on this important issue. I agree that the figures have improved, but as long as there is one child in Estonia who suffers from deprivation, this issue is so important that the whole society must pay attention to it. This collection, published yesterday, speaks of a rather distant past. In 2011, where data is largely reported, the situation was quite different from that of last year, for example. We know that the economic situation in Estonia has changed very quickly. I am pleased that the economic situation of both adults and children as a whole has changed in the meantime for the better. Nevertheless, we need to examine the main causes of poverty and the possible medicines for it. If we look at this collection, it confirms the already well - known fact that the best medicine for poverty in both children and adults is a rewarding job. There are now several tens of thousands more jobs in Estonia than in 2011, yet according to 2012 we had 5,000 families with children, where neither parent worked. What we want to do to help them, that is what I will try to tell you by answering specific questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U50	Thank you. The first question to be specified, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U51	Thank you. Honourable Minister of Social Affairs! You rightly said that the most effective medicine against poverty is a rewarding job. The statistics also show that the welfare of children is linked to the number of earners in the family and the number of dependants. According to the Unemployment Insurance Fund, the number of unemployed has increased for the third consecutive month, which already accounts for 5.1% of the working age population. Thus, in Estonia, the number of families with dependants and earners is increasing, and with it the number of children whose social situation is getting worse and worse. It seems to me that the Ministry of Social Affairs and the government at all have failed to do all the preventive work. This has also been referred to by the National Audit Office, saying that local governments have not been given specific obligations by law that they must deal with. Why has your social policy led to so many poor children?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U52	Once again: as long as there is even one child in Estonia who suffers from deprivation, it must be dealt with. But I am categorically opposed to your assessment when you claim that the figures have improved and that the number of children growing in poverty has decreased, but the situation as a whole has become worse. If you say something like that, it has to be based on something. Take, for example, the unemployment you have mentioned, which plays a very important role in the livelihood of families. Unemployment in Estonia has fallen faster than in any other European Union country; it is more than two and a half times smaller than it was three years ago. This means that tens of thousands of families have more work and are guaranteed to cope with this collection of data for 2011. You are concerned that unemployment rates are rising slightly every year from autumn to spring, but during the period from spring to autumn, they are turning to decline. I would point out that this has been the case in all years without exception; it is a seasonality of jobs. If we look at a slightly longer period, we dare, on the basis of absolute regularity, to say that, by March at the latest, unemployment will return to a decline. The level we have today is more or less the same as before the crisis. There are as many jobs in the Estonian economy as there were before the crisis. But yes, we have to deal with people who don't have a job. They too need to be helped to find a job.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U53	Please, Inara Luigas, the second point of clarification!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U54	Thank you. Honourable Minister of Social Affairs! You asked me, based on what statistics I'm proving that the situation has gotten worse. Sometimes it is worth going to Southeast Estonia and watching families and children live there, to talk to teachers and parents. Then you will understand how the cost of living has affected children and families. The whole economic situation has really got worse. Statistics also say that much depends on the future of the child's parents. However, parents are often stressed, depressed. The statistics say that parents do not know where to turn for help, but a third simply do not dare to ask for help. I want to assure you that your parents do not want to get money from you to buy movie tickets, they need help to cope in an elementary way. What kind of help do you offer them today?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U55	Believe me, I go to Southeast Estonia, and almost as often as you do. I guess I know what the real situation is, too. Sure, as long as there's one family who needs help, we'll have to deal with it. If we can help people with jobs, this is the best and most sustainable solution, but there are still solutions. The same need-based family allowance that you are ironing out of, this reform is actually halfway through. This support will increase at the beginning of 2015 and, if the country is fit for purpose, it will increase further in my opinion. The needs-based family allowance is specifically aimed at helping the children most in need. I do not understand you and the other opposition ambassadors who say that this money is too little, it is not necessary for these children, it is completely pointless support. I don't agree with you. I am saying that this is very much needed, and if the country is able to do so, we will increase this support even more. When analysing how much family benefits in Estonia reduce child poverty, we can see that children's livelihoods improve considerably as a result of the family receiving child benefit, parental benefit and other family benefits. This decision, which we made at the turn of the year, will certainly improve the livelihood of the poorest families, is more than 20% higher than last year. This step, too, will help. I believe that we must continue to take such steps, wondering how it would still be possible to increase support for the poorest families on a need-based basis.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U56	Thank you. Now two issues registered on the spot. Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U57	Thank you. Dear Minister, The children of parents who raise children alone are particularly deprived of materiality and in poor conditions. My question is about maintenance. There are several tens of thousands of children in Estonia who do not receive a living from the parent from whom it is understood. There's no improvement here. The country has done nothing concrete. Many countries have a livelihood guarantee fund. Is that what we're up to? Without it, we can't talk about the best child protection law in the world. The child is known to be entitled to support from both parents.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U58	Thank you. I agree with you that children must receive support from both parents. I would very much like this support to be financial, but more importantly, both parents spend time with the child. This is much more important. You refer to the new Child Protection Act and you ironise that we have set the goal that the Estonian child protection system is the best in the world. I am not ashamed that we have set such an ambitious goal. I think every athlete, every boy or girl who goes to sports wants to be an Olympic winner. The higher your goals, the better the outcome. I think that when we make all the laws, we could set the bar as high as possible. The main objective of child welfare organisation is to support as many families as possible in order to prevent situations where children must be separated from the family. I am pleased that, compared to ten years ago, the number of very extreme measures such as the separation of children from the family in Estonia has decreased approximately one and a half times. But, of course, it could be much smaller. This is definitely where the child welfare system plays an important role.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U59	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U60	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I'm so much older than you, I remember the Soviet party meetings. You could perform very well there. You can refer to what the opposition has not told you, and you put some strange claims in our mouths, for example, as if we were against need-based child benefits. Here's my question. I also read these headlines that you promise us the best child protection system in the world. Can you tell us which countries we should go by to be first? And when would that time come?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U61	The fact that the opposition has previously been against needs-based child support is probably known to everyone in this hall and to the general public in Estonia as a whole. Now, if you say you don't really mind, I'm grateful to know it. Each of us has the opportunity to change the platform by getting smarter or rethinking our positions. Need-based family support as a principle is right and we need to go on with it so that the system becomes fully operational and improves the way families live. As for the countries with which we compare ourselves and by whom we should go, do not take it as a sporting competition. We have indeed taken as an example the countries with the best child protection in the world, certainly including our northern neighbour, certainly Sweden and Scandinavian countries in general. We are not going to copy anyone, but we are going to combine Scandinavia's best knowledge with the experiences of Estonian children's guards. I'm not saying we're necessarily better, but our experience is bigger. Their laws have been done in the past, and we have the opportunity to learn from their mistakes and to accept it gratefully. They have also helped us very much in this regard. I think the Child Protection Act will be a good law, and certainly with your help.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U62	Thank you very much. The issue of child welfare has also been addressed; there are no further questions about this. Let's finish Question Time. Thank you very much to the members of the government. Let's get ready for the hearing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U63	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will begin the session of the first working week of the seventh plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U64	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Riigikogu! As a member of the political group of the Riigikogu, I am pleased to present a draft law concerning the amendment of electoral laws and other laws, including the status of a member of the Riigikogu, in order to solve one problem that has caused very many discords in Estonian political culture. This is the so-called decoy duck problem in folk language. The principle of incompatibility of mandates applies in Estonia: members of local councils cannot belong to the Riigikogu and vice versa, the same applies to the European Parliament. However, people are actually applying for large numbers of collections that they do not intend to enter. I believe that the easiest way to resolve this is to provide for a new mandate to cancel an earlier mandate. This would make us think better about whether we really want to go where we have decided to run and force choices to be made in the past, so that they can also be understood by voters. I recognise that this whole issue of incompatibility of mandates has often arisen since it came into force in 2002. The decision of the Supreme Court three days before the elections in 2005 has led to a wide range of interpretations of constitutionality, and I am sure that this issue must be resolved before the next elections come. The worst of all is the practice that has now developed in Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U65	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U66	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, It is known that one of the most consistent activities of this and the previous government coalition has been a constant deterioration of the economic environment. The members of the Centre Party Group have one question to address to the Prime Minister. In 2009, the Government of the Republic increased the rates of the right to specific use of water and the right to mine mineral resources in advance for the years 2010 to 2015. This gave operators a clear signal that charges would be fixed for the next five years. However, in October 2012, by Regulation No 83 the government decided to change the rates by increasing them faster than planned in 2009 and to a greater extent. According to the original plan, for the period 2013 to 2015, these environmental charges were to be increased twice by around 5%, while the change would have resulted in an annual increase of 20%. Indrek Teder, Chancellor of Justice, already in April 2013, presented to the Government the view that such action is unconstitutional and proposed that the rates of environmental charges be brought into line with the Constitution. Unfortunately, the government did not respond to this precept, so the Chancellor of Justice was forced to address the Supreme Court. On 16 December, the Constitutional Review College of the Supreme Court decided to take the view that an unexpected increase in the rates of pre-determined fees is unconstitutional. Consequently, on the basis of the Supreme Court's decision, EUR 4.8 million must now be repaid, in addition to the loss of EUR 12 million this year and EUR 17 million in 2015. We have a number of questions for the Prime Minister in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U67	On behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted a draft law. The Board of the Riigikogu decides to accept this procedure in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. I have also accepted an inquiry on behalf of the Riigikogu's board. If it complies with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu shall forward it to the addressee without delay. Now to the messages. The Board of the Riigikogu has registered the member of the Riigikogu Lauri Vahtre Isamaa and Res Publica as a member of the Group. Secondly, the Management Board of the Riigikogu has approved the following changes in the membership of the committees: Kaia Iva as member of the National Defence Commission and taking up the seat of a member of the Social Committee, Lauri Vahtre as member of the National Defence Commission, Kalev Lillo as member of the Economic Commission for the Leaving of the Economic Commission for the Leaving of Lillo and taking up the seat of a member of the Rural Commission, Tiina as member of the Rural Commission for the departure of Tiina Lokk-Tramberg and taking up the seat of a member of the Economic Commission, Terje Trei as member of the Social Committee for the Leaving of the Rural Commission, Aare Heinvee as member of the Rural Commission for the Leaving of the Rural Commission and taking up the position of a member of the Social Committee. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed them to lead committees: the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act amending the Law on the organisation of health services, initiated on 13 January, of which the commission is the Social Affairs Committee, of the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Law on Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and their Precursors, initiated on 13 January, of which the commission is the Social Affairs Committee, of the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act on the Amendment of the Packaging Act, initiated on 13 January, of which the commission is the Committee on the Environment, of the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Law on public water supply and sewerage initiated on 13 January, the commission of which is the Committee on the Environment; the Government of the Republic. a draft law on the amendment of the Courts Act initiated on 13 January and related to other laws of which the commission is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the Government of the Republic. a Draft Planning Act, initiated on 13 January, of which the Governing Commission is the Committee on Economic Affairs, of the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act on the Implementation of the Construction Code and the Planning Act, initiated on 13 January, of which the commission is the Committee on Economic Affairs, of the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act amending the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities, initiated on 13 January, of which the commission is the Committee on Economic Affairs, of the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act on the Amendment of the Tax Administration Act, initiated on 13 January, of which the commission is the Finance Commission, of the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending other laws relating to the amendment of the Tax Administration Act, initiated on 13 January, of which the commission is the Social Affairs Committee, of the Government of the Republic. a draft Act on Accession to the International Energy Programme Agreement, launched on 13 January, of which the commission is the Committee on Economic Affairs. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded questions from members of the Riigikogu to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts, and Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aavikkogu. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. 89 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, 12 are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U68	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the second reading of Draft Law 487 on the Amendment of the Order of the Defence Forces, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and related amendments to other laws. For a presentation, please address the Chair of the National Defence Commission, Mati Raidma!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U69	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the draft under discussion was completed on 23 October 2013. No proposals were submitted by the deadline of 6 November 2013. For its part, the National Defence Committee tabled 35 amendments. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft law amending the Order of the Defence Forces Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws before the second reading in five sessions. The entire draft was carried out with representatives of the Ministry of Defence, the Defence Forces and the Defence League in depth and in sections. All amendments proposed by the National Defence Commission are by consensus. The Ministry of Defence, as the representative of the initiator of the draft, supports all amendments made by the National Defence Commission. The amendments and their justifications can be examined in more detail in the list of amendments and in the explanatory memorandum. I'd like to bring out some of them here. The four amendments confer the power to approve the statutes of the structural units of the Defence Forces instead of the Minister of Defence on the Commander of the Defence Forces. This will significantly save the time and human resources of both the Defence Forces and the Ministry, which are currently being spent preparing drafts and processing processes. By way of derogation, the Minister remains in charge of establishing the statute of the Defence Forces' United Educational Institutions, since it is a university of applied sciences governed by the law of the University of Applied Sciences, in particular § 4 (3) thereof. Amendment 17 states that the consent of a person to collect and search data applies to him for the entire period between two regular background checks. This is due to the fact that the same regulation applies to the consent given when applying for a state secret authorisation. A series of amendments set out the same procedure as the Deputy Commander of the Defence Forces, Chief of General Staff, Commander of the Armed Forces and Commander of the Support Command for the appointment and dismissal of the Commander of the Special Operations Command and the Intelligence Centre. These are posts which are important security posts with sensitive information, and the process of appointment must respond to this. Amendment 29 introduces an amendment according to which an active service pension will be granted by the Deputy Head of the Defence Forces instead of the Chief of the General Staff of the Defence Forces. Since the Chief of the General Staff of the Defence Forces is no longer the first replacement of the Commander of the Defence Forces when the new Act enters into force and there is no plan to increase the number of pensioners, the Commander of the Defence Forces will only have one deputy. Amendment 30 restores the situation in force until 1 April 2013 for the payment of active service pensions in respect of former active troops employed in the rescue service. On 1 April last year, an amendment to the Defence Forces Service Act entered into force, under which no active service pension will be paid if the person is in active service, rescue service or police service and in the case provided for in the foreign contract. At that time, the rescue service was evidently added to the belief that the issue of service pensions for rescuers and policemen would converge, but this has not happened. Amendment 35 postpones the entry into force of the draft in order to give more time to process the draft and to better prepare implementing legislation. The remaining amendments are more of a formulation and a specification. At its meeting on 16 December, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu on 15 January and to propose that the second reading be terminated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U70	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Mati Raidma. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. Thirty-five amendments have been tabled to the draft, all tabled by the Steering Committee, the Committee on National Defence. We'll go through them. Amendment 1 to take full account; Amendment 2 to take full account; No 3 to take full account; No 4 to take full account; No 5 to take full account; No 6 to take full account; No 7 to take full account; No 8 to take full account; No 9 to take full account; No 10 to take full account; No 11 to take full account; No 12 to take full account; No 13 to take full account; No 14 to take full account; No 15 to be fully counted; No 16 to be fully counted; No 17 to be fully counted; No 18 to take full account; No 19 to take full account; No 20 to take full account; No 21 to take full account; No 22 to take full account; No 23 to take full account; No 24 to take full account; No 25 to be taken full account; No 26 to take full account; No 27 to take full account; No 28 to take full account; No 29 to take full account; No 30 to take full account full account; No 31 to take full account; No 32 to take full account; No 33 to take full account; No 34 to take full account. The amendments have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 487. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U71	Our second item today is the second reading of the draft State Budget Act 513 initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask for a presentation of the Chair of the Monetary Commission, Sven Sester.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U72	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Today I will give you an overview of the preparation of the draft state budget law for the second reading. The bill bears the number 513. The draft was discussed by the Committee on Finance on 19 November and 17 December last year and on 13 and 14 January this year. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance, headed by Minister Jürgen Ligi and representatives of the National Audit Office, also participated in various meetings. I'll stop for the bill's purposes first. The draft will transpose into Estonian law Council of Europe Directive 2011/85/EU on minimum requirements for Member States' budgetary frameworks with a deadline of 31 December 2013 for Member States to transpose. As a result of the adoption of the draft law, Estonian law sets out the rule of the balance of the government budget as laid down in the Treaty on the coordination and management of the stability of the economic and monetary union and the automatic correction mechanism to be transposed into national law by 1 January 2014. The second reason for the draft is that the current state budget law must be amended to transpose the directive into Estonian law. The State Budget Act has been adopted in 1999 and has been amended in more detail since 2003, which is why regulation is outdated and the possibilities for implementing budgeting developments are limited. This is why a new state budget law, the so-called "base law', has been drawn up to organise the financial management of the state, which covers the entire government sector. By the deadline for submitting amendments, i.e. 14 November 2013, 34 proposals were received from the Socialists, and no proposals were received from any other political group or members of the Riigikogu. In addition to these 34 amendments, 26 additional proposals were proposed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Explanations of any changes can be found in the list of amendments. At each of the four relevant meetings, the Commission discussed the amendments tabled and the draft amendments it had tabled. The wording of the provisions to be amended decided at the meeting of the Commission was discussed and the letters received were reviewed. Of the amendments tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the Commission took part in taking seven proposals into account. The following changes were made to the proposals of the Monetary Commission: the restriction on the establishment, reorganisation and termination of the legal entity of the central government was lifted; the limits beyond which additional restrictions are permitted; the deadline for the Ministry of Finance to explain the failure to take into account Eesti Pank's assessment was specified; the regulation of strategic development documents was supplemented, including a derogation from the development plan for the area of government of the constitutional institutions; the clarity that the government will present the state's budgetary strategy to the Riigikogu without delay after approval; the provision of the draft was supplemented with the provision that the constitutional institutions decide independently to adopt an operational budget; the derogation from the transferability of funds received from other public authorities; the requirements for the submission of amendments to the Riigikogu due to the need to ensure a structural fiscal position; the determination of figures under the new RES and the support fund with the state budget; the use of the Government's reserve for unforeseen investments and financing transactions was extended; the sources of the Stability Reserve were supplemented by an acceptable date for the implementation of the reserve. Now a little bit of the issues and issues discussed by the Commission, which arose in connection with the amendments. I will also explain to you the main reasons for not taking into account the amendments. Amendment 2: The balancing rule is an important restriction on the activities of government and other government institutions. If the proposal was taken into account, the law would create a vague construction instead of a specific numerical requirement. Where necessary, the activities of other institutions will be limited, not on the basis of the specific requirement of the law, but on the basis of the objective set by the government in the budget strategy. Amendment 3 The legal entity of the central government has no medium-term budgetary objective. The proposal would require each authority to set a budgetary position target, which would be unnecessarily complicated. Amendment 5 The draft provides that, by law or by law, legal persons of the central government are to be subject to requirements for the provision of a net debt and a financial plan. The legal entities of the central government are not social security funds pursuant to § 2 (2) of the draft. The Health Insurance Fund and the Unemployment Insurance Fund are covered by social security funds and are not subject to the requirement to present a net debt and a financial plan. Consideration of Amendment 7 would not change the process. The decision is made by the Government of the Republic, the analysis is submitted by the Minister of Finance. Amendment 8. The relaxation of the compensation mechanism will lead to an excessive prolongation of the period of compensation for the deficit. The annual compensation requirement is the same as 0.5% of GDP in the draft, by which the Stability and Growth Pact would require a country to improve its budgetary position once it has not yet reached its medium-term budgetary objective. Amendment 12. The publication of the forecast depends on the publication of the statistics, so it is appropriate to maintain flexibility and not to set a deadline in law. Amendment 14. The time of the assessment of Eesti Pank is regulated in § 82 of the draft Act amending the Eesti Pank Act. Amendment 17. The inclusion of funding decisions in the development plan does not ensure that all expenditure decisions are taken simultaneously, the decisions on money are concentrated in the country's budgetary strategy and the budgetary process, where the needs of development plans are balanced and the country's revenues and opportunities are balanced. Development plans have a longer perspective than the national budgetary strategy. Funding volumes longer than four years are questionable. Amendment 19. The change would deepen the focus of government in guiding the state's activities, but the activities that influence the achievement of the desired changes in society are not, as a rule, in just one area of government. It is too restrictive to define the scope of the sector on a governance basis. For example, the areas of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications are economic, energy, transport and information society, while the Ministry of Social Affairs has population and family policies, social security, labour market and health policies. Amendment 21. The proposal does not comply with the principle of separation of powers; the development plans in the field concern the implementation of policies which are within the competence of the Government of the Republic. The Riigikogu should consider confirming the fundamentals of policy as a development document that sets out the vision of the policy area, the country-wide objective and the priorities for development. Amendment 22. The issue of drawing up and approving a government development plan should not be regulated in the State Budget Act. These are government self-regulation issues. Amendment 23. It is not necessary to appoint the initiator of the programme at the level of the law, the decision to initiate the programme is made by the Government of the Republic through the development plan or independently the head of the constitutional institution. In the case of programmes, implementation of cooperation is important, not ministry-centred. Amendment 24. Discussion of the reports on the implementation of the sectoral development plans in the Riigikogu does not exclude the current regulation. The state's activities are presented in the composition of the state's annual accounts, which covers the entire state's activities, including those included in the development plans for the sector. Amendment 25. The development plans in the area of governance have so far been the ministerial working instruments. Governance development plans are carried out on the basis of an action plan; the action plan can be endorsed by the government as a whole. Amendments 26 and 27. There is no explanation why there should be separate mandates. An alternative proposal has been taken into account to use the generic term'strategic development documents' instead of listing the names of all development plans. Amendment 33. Local government units are part of the government sector and must comply with the objective of the state budget position. The provision comes from the European Union's Fiscal Directive, which obliges government levels to engage in the formulation of national fiscal policy objectives. The amendment reduces their ability to be involved and heard. Amendment 36. The net debt burden and the result of the core business are measures of financial discipline, which is why this concept must be used in the provision. The State does not have to grant investment grants to a local authority that exceeds the debt burden or transfers the capacities to a living local authority. Amendment 38. The proposal makes it very difficult, if not impossible, to manage the country's cash flow. The amendment would reduce the flexibility of decision-making in debt-taking for the country, based on cash flow needs and the situation in financial markets, increases interest costs and increases the financial burden of debt-taking in an up-to-date manner. Amendment 40. The Stabilisation Reserve will be redesigned to use it to finance crisis situations if it is not possible for the country to commit itself quickly in an appropriate volume in a crisis situation. The need to use the reserve provided may be resource-intensive and may arise unexpectedly. Amendment 41: The proposal leads to additional interest costs for the State and assumes that the State will only have to finance the purchase of holdings, the granting of loans and the repayment of existing debts through the taking of debt. Amendment 42. The law must ensure that the state is prepared for crisis and emergency situations, including financial crises. The resources of the Stabilisation Reserve are not used to manage the national cash flow, they are separate from other national liquid resources and are intended for crisis situations where disbursements require the Treasury to borrow promptly in the short term. Amendment 44. This provision is intended for unforeseen crisis situations. Proposals Nos 46 and 56. The date makes it possible to take into account the proposals made by the Health Insurance Fund and the Unemployment Insurance Fund in the budgetary process. Informally, the results of the summer economic forecast will be submitted to the Health Insurance Fund and the Unemployment Insurance Fund at the beginning of August, leaving sufficient margin for the Health Insurance Fund and the Unemployment Insurance Fund Board to submit a proposal for their budgetary position. Amendment 47. According to § 34 (1) of the draft law, budgetary negotiations are only held with ministries and constitutional institutions. It is necessary to regulate the current confusing distinction that national broadcasting is represented by the National Broadcasting Council in negotiations with the Ministry of Finance. Amendment 49. The state must prevent the financial difficulties of local governments. In the event of a severe fall in revenue resulting from the economic downturn, the local government may temporarily plan the results of its core business for one year in the minus to adapt to the changed situation. If the municipality plans a minus two years in a row, the resolution of the budget problems will be delayed and it will allow it to be negative four years in a row: two years as a result of budget implementation and two years as planned. In such a situation, reserves may become dangerously small, and payments that are overdue may accumulate. The wording of the draft allows three years to be negative as of the end of the year. Amendment 55. The section corrects the references to the Animal Protection Act, which must be amended as a result of changes to the Financial Management Act of the local government and the State Budget Act. If the content of § 64 (6) of the Animal Protection Act is to be amended, a separate amendment must be initiated. Amendments 57 and 58. The four-year cycle will help to ensure legal consistency in the tax system, but will also enable the unemployment fund to better plan its objectives. It would be useful to set an optimal and relatively stable rate of unemployment insurance that would not need to be changed in more than one business cycle. As a result, the unemployment fund collects reserves during the years of economic growth and can use them to cover the deficit during the economic crisis without changing the tax rate. Now what topics and documents were discussed in the Commission. The Committee on Monetary Affairs asked the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to deliver an opinion on the constitutional compatibility of the draft, in particular on the principle of separation of powers and balance of powers laid down in § 4. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs referred in its reply to two problems of the draft: the decrease in the role of the Riigikogu and the differences between constitutional institutions in the budgetary procedure. The role of the Riigikogu in planning strategies and shaping decisions as proposed in the draft has become marginal and lies in simply taking note of strategies drawn up by the executive power. Policy development, including the formulation of various strategies and the setting of long-term goals of the state, must be directed and decided by the Riigikogu. The principle of parliamentary democracy and separation of powers is also incompatible with the obligation of constitutional institutions arising from the draft to draw up development plans and programmes in the area of government, as confirmed by the Government of the Republic. There is also an unsubstantiated provision that the Government of the Republic decides on the use of activity-based breakdowns in the state budget and in the draft for the legislator and other constitutional institutions. In his letter, the National Audit Office identifies risks that require a fundamental position of the Riigikogu regarding solutions: changes in the organisation of strategic planning, the content of the use of the budget, the management of the stabilisation reserve and the financing of local governments from the state budget. There is virtually no regulation in the draft, which concerns the role of the Riigikogu in strategic planning. The Riigikogu has the opportunity to express its opinion on the sectoral development plan drawn up by the government. It is not specified at which stage of preparation the sectoral development plan will be discussed and which information package will be presented together with the development plan, and what will happen to the proposals made later in the Riigikogu. If the Riigikogu sees a reason to change the substantive and measurable objectives of the use of the funds allocated to the state budget, the budgetary strategy of the state should be brought to the discussion in the Riigikogu as a matter of national importance, to change the legal meaning of the explanatory memorandum to the Annual Budget Act, to set out more detailed content requirements for the structure of the explanatory memorandum and to describe in the draft the decision-making powers for the establishment of long-term objectives which are essential for the state, which are mandatory for the executive power and imputable to budgetary decisions. According to the National Audit Office, reporting is not sufficiently informative and does not contribute to improving the effectiveness of state budget expenditure. The links between money and results are confusing. It is important to ensure that the figures in the budget implementation report are comparable and that the changes made during the year are explained in the draft report. Specific requirements should also be laid down for action plans to be submitted by the government. Consideration must also be given to issues relating to the establishment and use of the stabilisation reserve. The Commission also examined a letter from the Confederation of Employers concerning the rates of unemployment insurance contributions in the draft State Budget Act. The letter proposes to exclude the amendment to the Unemployment Insurance Act from the draft State Budget Act. The Finance Committee maintained that the regulation on the introduction of unemployment insurance contributions rates is linked to the basic law on the state budget, as the unemployment fund accounts for a large part of government revenue and expenditure and thus affects the budgetary position of the general government as a whole. The state budget strategy and the state budget are designed to monitor compliance with the rules of the general government budget as a whole. It is therefore necessary to take account of the budgetary positions of all institutions belonging to the general government. It is therefore important to link decisions affecting the balance of the unemployment fund to the state budget process, as well as to ensure the predictability of the medium-term income base. The changes planned by the basic act do not affect the autonomy of the unemployment fund or the principles of the social partnership, as the role of the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund in proposing payment rates will not change. The Commission addressed the ECB's opinion on the draft. Asking for the opinion of the European Central Bank is the result of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, as the draft law concerns Eesti Pank. The European Central Bank advises the consulting authority to consider placing new tasks on Eesti Pank. In order to address a number of issues referred to in the above letters, the Committee on Monetary Affairs has drawn up amendments. A debate is under way on strategic planning, including improvements to the system's regulation of the country's budgetary strategy. Amendments will also be tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs during the continuation of the second reading. It is under consideration whether to provide for the approval of the fundamentals of politics by the Riigikogu, and in preparation there are possible changes in the light of the opinion of the European Central Bank. The Commission will also continue to discuss how to complement the regulations concerning the constitutional institutions, the content of the report on the use of the budget and the financing of local government units from the state budget. All proposals in this regard from members of the Riigikogu, political groups and committees are welcome. The following consensual decisions were taken by the Commission: to propose a second reading of the draft on the agenda of the plenary session on 15 January, today, to suspend the second reading and to set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 5 a.m. on 23 January 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U73	Thank you very much. Let's go to asking questions. Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U74	Dear waitress, Paragraph 18 (1) of the draft law states: 'The development plan of the municipality shall be approved by the Government of the Republic, subject to the law. The development plan of the field will be submitted to the Riigikogu for discussion before approval. ' Today, the Riigikogu discusses one of the main positions of cultural policy. However, there is no substantive point in this debate, as the Riigikogu cannot change a single word or comma in the development plan or positions. You did not support the Socialist Amendment, which would provide for the Government of the Republic to change the development plan in the course of this procedure in line with the positions expressed in Parliament. Please, would you mind telling me what content you give to the draft sentence that the development plan for the field will be submitted to the Riigikogu for discussion before approval? What is this debate and what can be done with its results?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U75	Thanks for asking. I understand that, in the context of the draft, the government wants to know the position of the legislative body, the Riigikogu, in the case of sectoral development plans, as it sees the activities arising from the development plan in the future. And given that certain development plans are approved by the government, the government should take into account the changes that the Riigikogu considers necessary. At the same time, I would like to point out that since we are interrupting the draft today, we can still argue about the role of the Riigikogu in strategically reviewing the various development documents from the time of interruption to the adoption of the law. After all, this role is not limited to the review; the Riigikogu can also contribute to giving new content to documents. If I am not mistaken, according to the current basic law, we have the opportunity to either adopt or reject the development plan. When comparing old and new basic law, nothing changes in this context. Rather, the question for us must be what are the inputs of the Riigikogu in the preparation of development plans. This means working with the executive, or ministries, of the sectoral committees.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U76	Thank you. Please, Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U77	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! Would you help to understand the content of § 5 (2) of the bill? It is stated here that the difference between the revenue and expenditure of the main activity for the financial year must be at least balanced. I understand that revenue and expenditure can be balanced, but how can the difference be balanced? And what does it balance with?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U78	Thank you. At second reading, we could focus more on our amendments, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs has already introduced general standards for basic budget law. But let's look specifically at the balance of § 5 means that the difference between income and expenditure cannot be in different minuses. That's a quick answer to you. What balance says, you can learn from your messages.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U79	Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U80	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! It was certainly a good thing that, unlike the VAT Act, you decided to turn this time to the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu for an opinion. These bottlenecks, which were highlighted there, are the reduction in the autonomy of the Riigikogu's budget and the existence of constitutional institutions, are serious. The Commission has tabled a number of amendments, but do I understand that you are not quite sure that these issues have been resolved? What is your view on this? Is the suspension of the bill intended to be used to seek a new opinion? And finally, what did you tell the Ministry of Finance? Why are we getting raw bills like that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U81	There were several questions on one issue, and I will try to answer them all. The first question concerned the observations made by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. This has resulted in a number of clarifications in the draft, such as the so-called result-based budgeting of constitutional institutions and, consequently, possible subordination to the Government of the Republic. Thanks to the amendments, there is also a new regulation and a new understanding. Or rather, understanding is not new; rather, it is very clear that there is no initiative. But the proposals of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs have been accepted. Now the other half of the question: should we ask the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for more specifically. The Committee on Monetary Affairs will decide, but much depends on whether additional information is expected from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The basic law has already been in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. However, if further observations are to be expected, this should certainly be considered. The third question related to the Ministry of Finance. It was a build-up of several drafts at the end of last year, and, indeed, the time remaining until the expected adoption of the draft was very short. We had, in principle, two options at that point: whether or not to separate national regulations from the requirements of European directives, because certain points should actually have entered into force on 1 January. Well, that's also a lesson for the ministries. We have submitted a letter of formal notice that this work needs to be done in greater depth.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U82	Thank you. Please, Rannar Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U83	Thank you. The Ministry of Finance, through the Finance Committee, has formally proposed to grant the Minister of Finance an additional right to temporarily limit the disbursements provided for in the state budget, only by informing the Government of the Republic. In addition to the cases previously submitted, namely the economic downturn and the financial crisis, it is proposed that this can be done by the Minister, even if the revenue forecast by the Ministry of Finance in the budget is not fully collected on the basis of the Ministry's own forecast, so if there is a risk of lower revenues. In essence, this means that we give the Minister of Finance an unlimited right to decide on a temporary basis when to limit the payment of sums due in the state budget. Isn't that a little too much for one institution?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U84	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U85	Thank you for a good question. You actually misunderstood when you read this amendment and the whole text of the draft. It was also said in the Committee on Monetary Affairs that the Minister of Finance has the right to make proposals and, accordingly, to make certain changes. The proposals should, however, come from somewhere. We also had a discussion on this in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. It was still a question of forecasting as such. You found the word 'predictable' too much. I would point out that if we adopt the budget, all revenue will actually be predictable in the context of the next year or the same specific budget. Final decisions are still taken by the Government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U86	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, In the second half of last year, the National Audit Office had a very close correspondence with the Ministry of Finance, and he also reported to us. On 12 November, a letter from the National Audit Office of the Committee on Monetary Affairs was received, which sets out four main points, in which the National Audit Office sees not an improvement but an improvement in the situation. For example, the National Audit Office considers that the draft State Budget Act proposes to restructure the strategic planning system. It is claimed that the bill increases the role of the Riigikogu in this system, but the National Audit Office thinks that this role will be reduced and become more unclear. And there are three other key points. How do you comment on the referral of the National Audit Office, and how do we intend to respond to it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U87	Thank you for a good question. The National Audit Office has pointed out quite a number of points. Well, it's always like there's a difference of opinion. I would like to emphasise once again that today the draft will not be adopted, but will be suspended. Several comments made by the National Audit Office have also been reflected in the amendments that are on your tables today. This is the same example that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs set out, which concerned the result-based budgeting of constitutional institutions and potential subordination to the Government of the Republic. This was also mentioned at the National Audit Office. In addition, the organisation of all strategic planning is very important: the role of the Riigikogu, the role of the Government of the Republic and the role of certain documents. I mean, there's different levels of documentation here. This is the job we're going to continue after we're canceled. All these points, as well as issues related to the stabilisation reserve and public finances in managing the state's cash flows, i.e. all those points that the National Audit Office has pointed out are the mother of negotiations. Numerous negotiations and consultations have also taken place at official level. The initiator of the draft act, in the form of the Ministry of Finance, gave us a clear signal at the last meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs that these amendments have been discussed and approved by the National Audit Office. This is important information, probably for the hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U88	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U89	Thank you, Madam President. Amendment 24. The committee rejected the Social Democratic Party's proposal that the Government of the Republic report to the Riigikogu once a year on the implementation of sectoral development plans. You said in your reply that this is not necessary because the report is presented in the context of the consolidated financial report. I don't think that's a very serious argument. The summary report for the financial year is devoted to some sectoral policies on just over one page and under many pages. It's extremely close. In addition, the report itself states that half of the 85 targets set for 2012 could be estimated and four out of the seven priorities could not yet be estimated. This is an extremely scarce opportunity. Is that what you thought?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U90	Thank you for a good question. I would like to say that quantity certainly does not determine quality, and vice versa. It is very important to find out how one or the other development plan has worked. And it is not certain that one page instead of half a page gives a much better or more accurate overview. It is a question of regulations, of how the development plans should be reviewed and possibly revised during the period for which the plan has been drawn up. That is what we discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. If the development plan does not actually find an application such as we have foreseen, should it be changed and, if so, at what intervals? But we will be able to continue this debate after the break-up, first in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and later in the big Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U91	Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U92	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, Shouldn't the State Budget Act rule out the possibility that revenue that doesn't yet have the power of the law, or they're not legitimized, is planned for the state budget? The current situation with regard to VAT issues is that revenue is earmarked for the budget, but there is no law in substance. From an entrepreneurial point of view, it would be wise for all tax changes to be known to businesses one year in advance. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U93	Thank you. Two questions, first on tax stability and second on planning. In the Committee on Monetary Affairs, we call all this structural position and planning a big black hole, a jargon between us. Of course, revenue can only be planned on the basis of changes due to the law. For example, with regard to the draft on VAT on cars, we have taken into account additional sources of cover. But it's a prognosis. With regard to VAT on the same cars, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, if we found an additional EUR 24 million in cover, we have improved the state budget position. We didn't change the forecast, but the forecast was still the same as the Ministry of Finance had informed us at one point, and it didn't fall by 24 million. The prognosis with its macro-economic indicators is much greater, and it is, of course, drawn up on the basis of the laws that have been adopted. The second question was about tax changes and the stability of the tax environment. I fully agree with you that the tax environment should be as stable as possible, as predictable as possible. So there's no added value anywhere but our business. The more unstable the tax environment that directly affects businesses is the greater the risk that companies do not want to be on this market.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U94	Thank you. Please, Jaak Allik, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U95	Dear waitress, § 84 of the Bill is intended to amend the Estonian National Broadcasting Act, not only for reasons arising from the State Budget Act, but to introduce a serious political change: appoint an additional member of the National Broadcasting Council as the representative of the executive power. Broadcasting policy has so far traditionally been the responsibility of the Cultural Committee of the Riigikogu. Why has the Committee on Monetary Affairs not asked for the opinion of the Committee on Culture on this point or is it planned to do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U96	Indeed, the basic law envisages quite a number of changes to this draft. As the reading of the draft is scheduled to be interrupted, the Committee on Monetary Affairs will certainly be able to ask for the opinion of the Committee on Culture if it is deemed necessary. We have that opportunity. I do not have the authority to give you a firm word as Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs; this must still be the decision of a majority of the committee. But it is good that you have marked it in the Chamber, and now the Committee on Monetary Affairs can raise this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U97	Thank you. Please, Kalev Eagle, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U98	Thank you, Madam President. Austet waitress! As a result of the Socialist amendments, you have specified the expression 'at least in balance' in several places. That is most commendable. But for some reason, in § 5 (2), it's still in. This 'at least in balance' is, in my opinion, a spoken-language expression that politicians and financial actors understand in the same way that the budget is either in balance or in surplus, but for those people who have learned physics and logic, it also means that the budget is either in balance or in deficit. For what reason has it been left in § 5 (2) 'at least balanced'?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U99	Don't look here for a big, hairy hand or a big brother who's knowingly wanted to keep it that way. I congratulate the authors of the amendments and their representatives in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, Eiki Nestor and Rannar Vassilyev. They have explained things and, on the basis of quite a number of these recommendations, some of the proposals made by the Committee on Monetary Affairs have received much more precise wording. A great deal of work has actually been done not only by the Commission, but also by a group. The 'at least balance' contained in § 5 (2) above itself states what is meant by it. If, in your opinion, this paragraph is not worded in such a way as to make it clear whether or not there has to be a balance, then we can discuss it further. I understand what this means when it's 'at least balanced', it's either balanced or better. If you sense that you should, for example, take away the word 'at least', we can discuss it in the Commission, like other editorial observations, after stopping the second reading. It is clear that the wording of both this and all other drafts must be such that there is no room for interpretation. Let us recall how this bill came to the Riigikogu. I cannot say the paragraph at this point in time, but, for example, it was talking about an increase in the debt ratio of 60% of GDP close to GDP. When it's close to '60%', it's a question of interpretation. All these places have now been clearly mentioned in the amendments tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Instead of '60% near', a better formulation is, for example, 'over 50%'. I confirm that we can also return to § 5 (2) if necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U100	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U101	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Sven! It is difficult for me to agree with you that the National Audit Office would agree with these changes. One of the comments made by the National Audit Office is that the basic law does not ensure that local authorities do not have to use the funds obtained from their revenues to carry out the tasks of the state. But here's the question. Base law is too serious to be dealt with in a narrow circle. Given that there is not much urgency with the draft, that there is definitely three months to work seriously on it, perhaps roundtable or expanded sessions could be held where representatives of local governments, the National Audit Office or anyone else would take part?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U102	I do not share the view that the bill is being dealt with by a narrow circle. The initiator, the Ministry of Finance, has negotiated the draft with different institutions as well as with representatives of local authorities. I understand that the coordination circles were essentially two before the draft reached the Riigikogu. Our criticism here in the Riigikogu consisted of two reproaches. Again, this question of quantity: you are negotiating several times, but there are still questions that, in my opinion as Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, need some solutions. It follows that this work should have been carried out in the third round. Our second complaint was that the period between the entry into the Riigikogu and the potential entry into force of the draft is short. The Finance Committee decided to withdraw one section from the draft, which was due to enter into force on 1 February 2014. To avoid being cornered by that section, we took it out. It gave us a chance to get more time, and that's what we're using. Now this bill has been in the Riigikogu for several months and during that time different working groups have met. As far as inclusion is concerned, all parties involved in the draft, to a lesser or greater extent, have been involved in working groups. And, as you know, we're going to cancel tonight. In general, we feel that a lot of work has been done on this draft, and now we could finally turn it into a law. Given that it's not yet accepted today and it's going to take some time, I guess those days are getting pretty crowded. We should move forward, not in a hurry, but there is no point in slowing down the process.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U103	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U104	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, Amendment 55 of the Social Democratic Party maybe you can explain to the Chamber and to me. You were talking so fast, it was pretty hard to understand. However, there is a need to create a new type of loan for local authorities, the name of which has been taken away from the loan for the management of the animal. In general, local government loans come either from the State Budget Act or from the Financial Management Act of the local government unit, and now there is a separate type of loan under the Animal Protection Act. Is that an emergency? Have the municipalities asked for this type of loan to be separate?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U105	This issue was also raised in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I do not recall the specific motivation that this had to do with the municipality and for which it was put into the bill. At the same time, the Committee on Monetary Affairs considered that if we wanted to make this amendment to the Animal Protection Act, we should initiate such a draft separately. Right now, we're working on the state budget law. That is the position of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. No one has prohibited amendments to the Animal Protection Act, but a separate draft could be launched.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U106	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U107	Honourable Chairman of the Commission! I'd like to go to the next debate that comes after the interruption. Amendment 32, which was tabled yesterday by the Committee on Monetary Affairs after a long debate and which deals with the structural balance, will be discussed. Yesterday, Commissioner Sõerd remarked very well that the European Commission also said about our budget this year that the structural balance proposed by the Government of the Republic, surplus 0,... %, is actually smaller. He said another number. We are all aware in the Commission that the structural balance as such is in some respects a black box. If we now begin to assess the changes made by the Riigikogu in the course of the budgetary procedure on this basis, how will the Riigikogu commission manage to understand this, whether one or the other amendment will affect the structural balance or not. Yesterday, we jointly considered that the amendment made by the Commission for this year's state budget to cover the deficit caused by the non-acceptance of tax laws would not or should not have been taken into account. But for the next budget for 2015, we already need to be so smart that we say: this change meets the requirements, it does not. How do you imagine we're gonna do this?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U108	We're talking about financial literacy. That is a question that we have discussed. I will give a similar example of a topic that we have discussed here in the Chamber of the Riigikogu when it was about increasing the share capital of Eesti Energia. One member of the Riigikogu suggested that he take the money that goes to Eesti Energia and allocate it for grants or salaries, for example. In accounting terms, I stress, in accounting terms, the case of Eesti Energia is a financial investment if we increase our capital. The financial investment is not a cost, the money becomes another equivalent in the assets of the balance sheet. If we were to allocate this amount for grants, for example, it would be written as a type of expenditure. In the case of similar examples, and also in the case of the amendments you have tabled, an understanding of whether or not a specific proposal is a structural imbalance is a question of financial literacy. There's no reason to be ashamed if there's a question to be asked. If you don't know yourself, you have to ask whether taking into account the proposal would change the structural balance or not. It is assumed that a member of the Riigikogu knows what a structural balance is. The second, separate question is whether such a principle should be included in the basic law at all. As an example, the changes made to the 2014 state budget procedure would not have been confirmed by the new law as they alter the structural balance. It's like a separate subject. I think that, based on conservative planning policies, it is not bad to introduce a structural balance in itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U109	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U110	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good chairman of the committee! My question concerns § 84 of the draft law and amendment No 47 made by the Social Democratic Party. This concerns the amendment of the National Broadcasting Act. What is the substantial reason why this good proposal by the Socialists was not supported? I understand that the proposal was not supported by the Commission, so it probably will not pass through the large Chamber either. If the government really has a great desire to appoint a representative to the National Broadcasting Council, why does it want to do so through the Minister of Culture, not through the Minister of Finance, if that appointment is really linked to the state budget and financial matters?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U111	I don't have any new information to give you. When examining the amendments to the draft proposal, I mediated certain substantive reasons. I can rely on the information provided by the initiators of the draft and on the discussion that has been held in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. As regards Amendment 47, I repeat, just in case, that it is desirable to resolve the current confusing distinction that national broadcasting is represented by the National Broadcasting Council in negotiations with the Ministry of Finance. Otherwise, budget negotiations will be conducted only with ministries and constitutional institutions. If this issue still remains after the end of the second reading, we can discuss it in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Nothing's locked.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U112	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U113	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. My question was not whether we should eliminate a situation where it is incomprehensible who must defend the national broadcasting budget. It was a really confusing situation, the two laws were incompatible and it is a good thing that the problem was solved. However, the Minister of Finance has said that if the government receives a representative from the National Broadcasting Council, all financial matters will also be controlled there. If this is the aim, why is the representative appointed by the Minister of Culture and not by the Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U114	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U115	I don't know exactly. This question is very specific. Let's discuss this. In the Committee on Monetary Affairs, this issue was not raised, if I tried to answer it, it would already be my interpretation. We can certainly ask this either directly from the Minister or in the Commission's further debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U116	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Paragraph 44 (2) is, in my opinion, a misleading text. It says here that the agreement between the local government units and their associations and the Government of the Republic determines all kinds of principles. Unfortunately, as far as I know, this agreement has not been reached in the last three or four years. How, then, will these principles actually be established?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U117	You're welcome. I'm opening negotiations. I would like the Riigikogu's speech chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U118	Let's check it out! During the procedure of the draft State Budget Act, we will also review this particular § 44 (2). There's no question at all! But it is very good that the provisions that raise such questions are fixed in the verbatim report of the sitting of the Grand Chamber, which is the places on which the Committee on Monetary Affairs can pay its attention. It's very welcome!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U119	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U120	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U121	Mr. Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Estonian Centre Party Group today supports the cessation of reading the draft law. This is for the simple reason that, in its current form, it is not even possible to force colleagues to adopt it. And the second thing that the Group of the Estonian Centre Party is certain about is that the basic law of the state budget is too important for the state to discuss it only between the Ministry and the Finance Committee. This debate must have a much wider scope. In any case, we are proposing that the Commission organises discussions with local government associations, employers' organisations, etc. Now to the bill. A few remarks. I've been here for a period since 1999, and I thought I'd seen everything. What happened yesterday in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, however, was the first time I saw it. At the moment, you will see 60 amendments to the bill on your desks or on the shelf. There were 63 yesterday. What am I talking about right now? Indeed, when we discussed Amendment 38 yesterday, which is no longer there today, the result of the vote was in favour of 1, against 4, while the rest were solemnly absent, even though everyone was present in the Commission. This was an amendment tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. It was submitted by the Ministry of Finance, but nevertheless the result of the vote was what it was. Really, it was the first time I saw it! This itself already shows the quality of the draft 513 that is less than any criticism. I would like to draw attention to another amendment which unfortunately exists in the table of the amendments. This is Amendment 32 and reads as follows: amend § 38 (2) and read as follows: the proposal to amend the draft budget may not lead to a structural deficit, an increase or a reduction in the structural surplus. I raised the question in the Commission as to whether there would be such a possibility that in the future, if the future opposition tabled 300, 600 or even 1000 amendments, it would be easier for the coalition to express the view that all these amendments would lead to a structural deficit in the state budget. You could mean anything by that. And if such an opinion exists, and if by that time the coalition has included in a nice law that amendments which do not comply with the provisions of § 38 (2) of the State Budget Act are not to be voted in the large Chamber, then it is in the sense that the coalition may, in such an arbitrary way, disabling the opposition. Our group today is voting on this amendment, and I ask everyone to support us and vote against it. I've never seen a democracy such as the one that we see in the process of the draft law on the state budget. In the committee, it was said that what are you talking about and discussing and all the amendments being examined? Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U122	In the committee, it was said that what are you talking about and discussing all the amendments? The question is not whether they are being discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the question is whether proposals can be put to the vote in this Chamber. I also want to say that I agree with the National Audit Office, which announced its opinion in mid-November. In particular, the new State Budget Act proposes to restructure the strategic planning system and allegedly increases the role of the Riigikogu. However, this role tends to decrease and become more confusing. Unfortunately, I can't introduce all the arguments to you, the letter is long and thorough. I suggest you look at the correspondence, there's a letter right there. I also agree with the National Audit Office that the state budget, i.e. the supervision of the use of state assets, is also directly related to reporting and, unfortunately, becomes worse. We lose any idea of what we have had so far because it is practically possible to take it away from us in its entirety. I don't have time to talk about the stabilisation reserve, but if you're interested, read the letter from the National Audit Office. However, a separate concern is that we have been talking for years about the unacceptable situation in which a local government has to pay for all kinds of state tasks, either directly, as happened in the organisation of border crossings at one place or another, or indirectly, as if the state were giving up some of its tasks to the local government and not securing it with money. The National Audit Office has proposed a mechanism for how this can be done in the near future. It would also require some changes to this bill, but it has not been done. This is the biggest concern because, as has been done to the local government budget for a long time, it will continue with this draft. Nothing will change in this area, and so will the new law. Finally, to be better remembered. Our proposal is urgent and we ask the Committee on Monetary Affairs at least to discuss it and to hold wide-ranging discussions with all those whose life depends on the form and content of the basic law of the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U123	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U124	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu to speak to Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U125	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, As the Honorable Chairman of the Commission pointed out that the verbatim of the Grand Chamber is an important basis for what the Committee on Monetary Affairs is going to do next, I would add some margins to the verbatim of reading this bill. I did not ask in vain whether the constitutional analysis in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs would continue after the second reading was interrupted. I was a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs when the Commission gave an opinion on this draft, and I remember quite well that the time given to our committee to deal with it was rather short. There was also such a comment that what the Commission said at the time was a minimum of what can be said for such a time frame. But these things were basically fundamental and concerned both the autonomy of constitutional institutions and the autonomy of the Riigikogu itself in the budgetary process. They must not be hurt or left to chance. The chairman of the committee said that we will see what other amendments will be received and how this will turn out. In my opinion, the Committee on Monetary Affairs must be responsible for ensuring that, when a draft law is put into final proceedings, its compatibility with the Constitution is no longer contested. The second question I asked in connection with the same question was how the Ministry could have been such a failure in the first place. I received a convincing response from the Commission. Thank you. I also think that there must be no such thing in the future. However, I do not really agree with the apology that the end of the year was urgent. In my opinion, this failure cannot be explained at any rate; it can be explained by attitude, including the attitude of the ministry towards us, the Riigikogu. The committees, political groups and members of the Riigikogu should be much more determined and require that such drafts are not submitted to us. This also concerns the independence of constitutional institutions, which also concerns the same national broadcasting which has been repeatedly asked about in the Chamber and which is not a constitutional institution. Perhaps it is not in any way contrary to the Constitution that the Ministry is going to appoint members of the National Broadcasting Council, but it is reducing the autonomy of public service broadcasting. I wish we could avoid such things. Finally, in the last margin procedure, one short look back. Not only myself, but also a number of previous MPs, and perhaps some of the current older ones, have probably wondered where the decrease in the role of the Riigikogu started in comparison with the government. Probably one of the main starting points was what took place in the composition of Riigikogu IX with the same basic law of the state budget. If we renounce our competence in matters relating to the state budget, this will inevitably lead to the marginalisation of the Riigikogu in other areas as well. I really want to avoid it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U126	Riigikogu speech chair Eiki Nestori, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U127	I start with the Committee on Monetary Affairs, in a very reasonable way, slowing down the draft from the Minister of Finance and the Government of the Republic and pointing out that it is not appropriate to adopt this law in a sudden way. Today, the bill has gotten better, but it could be better. I mean, there's movement in three directions. For example, it was only this week that we learned in the Commission that the European Central Bank is not quite satisfied with the position we see in this law for Eesti Pank. It needs to be changed, and we're gonna do it calmly, it's okay. There have been positive changes. On behalf of our group, I dare thank the Commission for taking part in several of our proposals. I consider two of them to be the most important. Firstly, that the budgetary strategy of the state will also be discussed in the Riigikogu, it will not be just a government document. It cannot be that we are adopting a budget that we do not know anything about the strategy. Another important change relates to the amounts by which the State's revenue exceeds expenditure, i.e. "overexploited" money, which in the original version went directly under the command of the Minister of Finance. Now, with regard to the annual report, we can decide what to do with this money: how much to go to the cash reserve, how much to the stabilisation reserve. These are positive changes. But the colleagues who spoke before me, they both said the right thing. What's wrong with this bill? It's an official-centred vision of how this should work. The importance of this bill, my friends, is that it regulates a lot. Even this same national circus with VAT on passenger cars is also a matter of this law. If the State Budget Act allows certain things to be done, then such a circus could be launched. If that law doesn't allow it, it can't happen. Yesterday, to everyone's great surprise, I thank him for this. In fact, by a majority, the Ministry of Finance directed back one proposal, which was insane. Today, the draft states that if the revenue of the state is not received in the expected amount, in some cases the Minister of Finance may limit the disbursements. There was a new proposal: even if the expected revenues were not realised, it could do the same. I don't think the officials understood it until I gave an example. It is now the case that the Minister of Finance, whose proposal concerning VAT on passenger cars has been sent to the month, whose proposed declaration of 1000-euro invoices has not been announced and the fees for mining have been cancelled by the Supreme Court, can say that revenue is not collected and, soul is not full, states that I will now limit payments until you accept the VAT changes I have proposed. That's not the situation, you know! What's still missing here? There have been some approaches, but I'm starting with a simple disadvantage. It is also necessary to explain here to the assistance of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, wherever Maruste is now, that it is somehow strange to state in this law that, although our constitution says that financial obligations are imposed on the state by the Riigikogu, the decision on the loan is decided by the Minister of Finance or the Ministry of Finance. Of course, everyone understands in the same way how this mechanism actually works, but the wording is that. The following problems concern the balance between the Riigikogu and the government. First of all, I admit that whatever my dear and not so dear right-wing colleagues in Delfi or anywhere else are lying about social democrats, these corrective and compensatory mechanisms, which are now coming into the law, are reasonable in themselves. We no longer talk every year about a fairy tale with a balanced budget, which is bullshit, but about the fact that there can be both good and bad years. And then, when the bad years have been, the deficit that has arisen in the meantime in the good years must be corrected. Everything's simple. For example, in § 6, who needs to adjust the budgetary position, who will make the decision. It can now be said from this wording that it is the case that the Ministry of Finance predicts that it is bad, that the Minister of Finance raises the issue of the government that budget forecasts are not being implemented, and that it proposes, if necessary, to improve the budgetary position. And it's his decision. Our proposal is simple: the Minister for Finance is obliged to bring the proposal to the government, and the government decides that it is necessary to change the budgetary position, not the Minister for Finance. A simple example. Or § 7. When the bad years have passed and we have achieved a structural balance, it is very reasonable to write here so that this intermediate minus needs to be corrected. The Ministry of Finance believes that this must be done in such a way that at least 0.5% of GDP per year must be planned for this purpose. Our proposal was to exclude this number from this, so that regulation would be more flexible, because, as a rule, the better years after the very bad years, which are not yet very good. For example, if the so-called balanced amount of this budget is 0.7% of GDP, why should it not be made up to 0.2% in one year and 0.5% in the next year? They may look like nuances, but it depends on whether or not we are being brought here by another bravularly made VAT law. The most important thing is that, unfortunately, there has been no approach to the issue of the country's strategic documents. It's so sad, friends! That's terrible! The Ministry of Finance wants the current situation to be maintained. As is the case: we raise a problem in society, a number of wise people come together and discuss how to solve them, prepare some kind of document, but everything ends with words: it is financed depending on the state budget. After that, you can bury this document without inviting the brass orchestra. This is some form of political self-satisfaction, expressed in a press release that such a plan was completed, and nothing more will follow. Read our suggestions! If the law demands and the government wants, these plans come here. The Riigikogu discusses, after which the government can make changes to them, and the Riigikogu then either confirms a specific plan or does not. The report will be given to the Riigikogu and, if necessary, these development plans will be amended. That's the only way it works, otherwise this stupid situation will survive. I call on you to support our changes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U128	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U129	Good manager! Colleagues! I'm asking for more time right from the beginning!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U130	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. We can go to the examination of the amendments to draft 513; a total of 60 have been received. The first amendment is from the lead committee. The second amendment is tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, and the commission has not taken this into account, Eiki Nestor, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U131	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U132	Let's start preparing the voting procedure. Dear colleagues, I will vote on the second amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote. 34 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 43 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 3 is tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is not taken into account. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U133	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U134	Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote the third amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please vote! 35 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 43 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 4 is made by the lead committee. Amendment 5 is the position put forward by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the lead committee: to be disregarded. Amendment 6 is made by the lead committee. Amendment 7 is tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is to disregard it. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U135	Let's start preparing for the vote. I shall put to the vote the seventh amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote. 34 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 44 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 8 is tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is to disregard it. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U136	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U137	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U138	Let's start preparing for the vote. I shall put to the vote the eighth amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote. 33 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 44 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 9 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 10 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is partly taken into account. Amendment 11 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is partly taken into account. Amendment 12 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is not taken into account. Amendment 13 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 14 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is partly taken into account. Amendment 15 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 16 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 17 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is not taken into account. Amendment 18 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 19 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is not taken into account. Amendment 20 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is partly taken into account. Amendment 21 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is not taken into account. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U139	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U140	Let's start preparing for the vote. I shall put to the vote the 21st amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote. 34 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 44 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The 22nd amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has been partially taken into account by the Steering Committee. Amendment 23 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Amendment 24 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U141	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U142	Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 24. Please take a stand and vote. 33 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 45 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 25 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; this has not been taken into account by the commission. Amendment 26 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is not taken into account. Amendment 27 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is not taken into account. Amendment 28 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 29 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is partly taken into account. Amendment 30 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 31 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 32 has been tabled by the lead committee. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U143	Thank you. I would like to vote on Amendment 32.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U144	Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 32 tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Please take a stand and vote. 51 votes to 22, with no abstentions. The proposal was supported. Amendment 33 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is not taken into account. Amendment 34 has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Amendment 35 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 36 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is not taken into account. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U145	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U146	Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 36, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote. 24 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 41 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 37 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 38 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the proposal of the commission is not taken into account. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U147	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U148	Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 38 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote. 23 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 42 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 39 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 40 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the proposal of the commission is not taken into account. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U149	I would like to ask you to vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U150	Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 40. Please take a stand and vote. 27 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 42 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 41 is tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is partly taken into account. Amendment 42 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is not taken into account. Amendment 43 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 44 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 45 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 46 has not been tabled by the lead committee; it has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the lead committee is disregarded. Amendment 47 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is to leave it to account. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U151	Thank you. I would ask you to vote on this inappropriate section of this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U152	Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 47. Please take a stand and vote. 26 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with 39 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 48 is tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 49 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; this has not been taken into account by the commission. Amendments 50, 51, 52, 53 and 54 are tabled by the commission. Amendment 55 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; this has not been taken into account by the commission. Amendment 56 is the position put forward by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the lead committee: to be disregarded. Amendment 57 is the position put forward by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the lead committee: to be disregarded. Amendment 58 is the position put forward by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the lead committee: not to be taken into account. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U153	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U154	Let's start preparing for the vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 58 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote. 26 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 42 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 59 is tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 60 is the position put forward by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the lead committee: to be disregarded. Good fellows, thank you. We have examined all the amendments concerning draft 513. The commission has proposed to interrupt the second reading of the draft. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft proposal 513. 23 January 2010 at 5 p.m. The second reading is adjourned and the second item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U155	We will move on to the third item on the agenda, which is the second reading of the Tax Administration Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and, in this connection, the draft law amending other laws 507. Mr Tarmo Männi, member of the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U156	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 14 October last year. The first reading took place in this Chamber on 6 November.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U157	Good waitress, I'm sorry! Ladies and gentlemen, there's a lot of noise in the hall. I ask that we respect the waitress and those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hear the further move of the draft 507 debate! Please, waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U158	As the draft proposes to amend several acts falling within the area of work of the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Monetary Affairs also asked the Committee on Legal Affairs for an opinion on this. The Commission did not have any comments on the draft, but it was suggested that consideration be given, where possible, to the involvement of bailiffs and insolvency practitioners in its proceedings. On 8 November last year, the Chamber of Law Enforcement and Bankruptcy Administrators requested the Committee on Monetary Affairs to hear their views on the draft. Representatives of bailiffs and the Chamber of Bankruptcy Administrators participated in the meeting of the Commission on 16 December, where representatives of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance were also invited. The main topic of the debate was the delimitation of jurisdiction between tax authorities and bailiffs. From the point of view of procedural economics, a rapid and effective recovery of tax debts is essential in order to make it clear clearly when and how the procedure will be transferred from one processor to another. The wording of § 130 (2) of the Tax Act has also been clarified in the light of the proposal of the Law Enforcement Tribunals and the Chamber of Bankruptcy Administrators, and Amendment 2 is included in the documents issued to you. The members of the Riigikogu, the committees and the political groups did not submit any proposals for the draft by the deadline for amendments. The meetings of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, in preparation for the second reading of the draft, took place on 16 December and 13 January. The commission decided to propose five amendments, which were formulated together with the representative of the initiator of the draft with the Ministry of Finance. The first amendment proposes unambiguously defining in the Tax Administration Act the right of the tax authority to request the imposition of prohibition marks on the disposal of immovable property without the consent of the person concerned. Amendment 2 has also taken into account the proposal of the Chamber of Law Enforcement and Bankruptcy Administrators. A reference to § 25 of the Enforcement Procedure Code shall be added. The aim is to achieve a situation in which executives immediately comply with the requirements of the tax authorities. Amendments 3, 4 and 5 concern all deadlines for implementation and entry into force of the draft. All amendments were supported by consensus by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The Commission decided to propose that the second reading be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on 15 January and that the second reading be closed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U159	Thank you. You have at least one question. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U160	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I am interested in Amendment 2. In its text, it states that "the requirements laid down in § 24 and 25 of the Code of Enforcement Procedure shall not apply to the continuation of enforcement proceedings initiated by a tax authority by a bailiff'. If you look at the explanatory memorandum, it is the deadline for voluntary performance of the obligation. There is a situation in which the Code of Enforcement Procedure has a deadline for voluntary execution, but another law imposes some restrictions on this particular act. Do you not see a contradiction in the fact that one law provides for a certain law, while the other restricts it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U161	We're on the same committee. We didn't discuss it in very detailed terms, but we don't see a legal problem here. The deadline for voluntary performance of the obligation can be guided by the tax authority; the bailiff does not need to apply it for a second time. That's the idea of a bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U162	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. We will begin the examination of the amendments to the draft 507. The first amendment is from the lead committee, the second, the third, the fourth and the fifth. We have examined the amendments. The commission's proposal was to conclude the second reading of draft 507. The second reading is closed and the third item is addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U163	Let's move to point four. First reading of the draft Code of Misdemeanour Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu, honored Minister of Justice Hanno Pevkur!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U164	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I'm happy to be in front of you for the first time this year and be here with a bill as important as 500. Have a good year of work and just a good year of work for all of you! Now for the bill. Of course, as I said in the introduction, this is a very good draft, and it deserves support in the Riigikogu and a thorough debate. When drawing up the draft Code of Misdemeanour Procedure, we in the Ministry of Justice set the objective that the misdemeanour procedure must be carried out quickly, efficiently and with high quality. The draft law has brought together all the rules relating to the processing of misdemeanours, based on the specificity of the work of misdemeanours and their processors, in order to facilitate the work of misdemeanours. After all, the Code is primarily an out-of-court handling tool. In the future, instead of the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure, the VTMS currently in force, the VTMS, sounds shorter, has been amended and amended several times, and more specifically, 52 times, but there have been no permanent and profound changes to resolve the questionable issues that have arisen during the day-to-day implementation of the law. A number of issues arising from the implementation of misdemeanour proceedings have been resolved through the application of common or conventional practice of out-of-court practitioners, for which there is no explicit regulation at law level. I think it is important to mention that this is not a whole new regulation of misdemeanour. The aim of the draft was to review the existing misdemeanour procedure and, where appropriate, to coordinate with the current legal landscape and to analyse the different types of procedures in order to make them more effective and of high quality. Therefore, the basis is the existing VMS, the change of which is indispensable as a result of changes in society and in legal and procedural practice. The draft has also taken into account amendments made to the existing misdemeanour procedure by the draft law amending the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure adopted by the Riigikogu on 19 June 2013 (this number was 375 at the time), such as the video recording of the procedural procedure instead of the written protocol. Exceptionally, we agreed with the Ministry of the Interior's proposal to withdraw this regulation from the draft and to introduce it more quickly, already in the spring. The following are the main changes: First of all, I would like to mention an amendment which provides for discretion, or discretion, for the person dealing with minor misdemeanour proceedings. The principle of legality applies as a general principle at the start of a misdemeanour procedure, but under the condition laid down in the law, the defendant has the right to consider the possibility of not initiating the procedure and to limit himself to an oral warning. However, in anticipation of questions, I note that a misdemeanour is not likely to be of minor importance if damage has been caused or if a misdemeanour procedure has been initiated on the basis of a person's misdemeanour, which refers to the damage suffered. I believe that we have no reason to doubt the skills, competence and ability of extra-judicial practitioners to identify the gravity of the infringement and to decide whether it is necessary to initiate a misdemeanour procedure. As an example, according to § 206 of the current Traffic Act, driving a motor vehicle or off-road vehicle with a national registration plate not listed at the required distance (punishment of 10 penalty units) is punishable, but instead of penalising the driver, the policeman could say that he should clear the number on the spot. As another important change, I would point out that by means of a new draft, we give the municipality or municipality authority, as an out-of-court judge, the right to authorise another local authority to carry out a misdemeanour procedure on behalf of the authority authorising the municipality. According to the VTMS, the municipality or city government is also an out-of-court judge for all misdemeanours committed on its territory, if the law specifically provides for the municipality to have jurisdiction to deal with the misdemeanour. However, the units of local government are of very different sizes and compositions, which makes it difficult for the culprit to carry out the tasks. In order to resolve this situation, the draft allows the local government council to decide that the administrative contract empowers another local government entity to carry out the misdemeanour procedure. All the terms and conditions which are the subject of the mandate must be agreed upon in the administrative contract, following the Local Government Organisation Act and the Administrative Cooperation Act. Third, I would like to point out that the grounds for bringing an end to the misdemeanour procedure are being corrected. In the current law, namely § 29, some grounds for the termination of misdemeanour proceedings duplicate each other. We therefore propose to delete the text 'as the law which provided for the penalty for wrongdoing has been repealed', because it is covered by an exclusion basis, which is that the act does not have the characteristics of a misdemeanour. If there is no law that provides for punishment, there can be no signs of wrongdoing. The most important adjustment of the grounds for termination concerns, in particular, termination based on considerations of rationality. The current Code of Misdemeanour Procedure does not have the meaning of termination for reasons of open rationality; however, the draft states the grounds in which the misdemeanour procedure can be terminated on the basis of considerations of rationality. I also consider it important to consider that a more flexible possibility of payment of a fine imposed as a penalty should be created. As is known, under the current law, a fine must be paid within 15 days and the claim will be enforced thereafter. It is now proposed to extend the period of voluntary payment of the fine and this could depend on the amount of the fine. A fine of up to 100 daily fines shall be paid in full to the Bank within 30 days, up to a maximum of 200 daily fines within 60 days and up to 300 daily fines within 90 days, at the latest, from the date of entry into force of the misdemeanour decision. I will also bring out an amendment allowing the general procedure to derogate from the general procedural time limits, as well as a decision to be taken more quickly than 30 days after service of the minutes. A copy of the solution shall be sent to the defendant's e-mail address on request. Such regulation resolves the concerns raised in practice. In fact, people often find out about their own decisions only when they are contacted by a bailiff. This means that so much time has passed since the settlement that the decision has already been passed on to the executioner. We can presumably hope that situations in which a person does not come to know a misdemeanour decision and is therefore not able to pay the fine imposed in due time will be reduced. However, since the period of appeal begins on the day on which the decision of misconduct is available for inspection by an out-of-court practitioner and is communicated to the person under proceedings, the person must nevertheless be diligent and conscientious, in particular as regards time limits. Sending a copy of a misdemeanour decision by e-mail is an opportunity to facilitate the receipt of the decision, but the beginning of the period of appeal does not depend on the person's finding of the misdemeanour decision by electronic mail or opening the letter concerned. While we have already talked about the procedure, I believe that it could also be of interest that the draft allows for an urgent procedure for serious infringements. The aim is to provide for the possibility, in the event of major infringements, of penalising a person under urgent procedures and thus saving procedural resources at the expense of general procedures. The urgent procedure cannot be applied in cases of misdemeanour for which the person subject to the proceedings must be punished by seizure or additional penalties, such as the withdrawal of the right to drive. The provisions on judicial proceedings are also being supplemented. I shall mention some of them here. There is a proposal to give the court permission to seize property. For example, confiscating a means of committing a misdemeanour is the most effective means of influencing persons who are consistently in breach of traffic requirements and also of increasing compliance with the law. For example, 48 vehicles were confiscated from repeat offenders in 2012. In judicial proceedings, there shall also be the possibility of discussing at one hearing a single misdemeanour or an incessant number of misdemeanours and of declaring the final part of the judgment orally after the hearing of each misdemeanour, at the same time as the parties to the proceedings receive a written judgment. The hearing shall be recorded in audio or video at one hearing in successive cases of misconduct. The obligation of the conference room contained in the current Code of Misdemeanour Procedure and the procedural requirements shall be abolished. The Court shall be given the opportunity to declare the decision orally and to state when a written decision is received from the Registry of the Court. The appeal procedure, the cassation procedure, the review procedure and the appeal procedure are referred to as a general reference according to which the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure apply in the misdemeanour procedure, taking into account the differences laid down in the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure. I believe that a brief summary of the very large draft has been passed on to you. Of course, the proposal of the Committee on Legal Affairs to conclude the first reading is appropriate for the Government of the Republic. Then we can continue to work on the draft in the Committee on Legal Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U165	Thank you! Minister, there are also questions for you. Peter Võsa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U166	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I have a question about § 81 of this draft law on the "Differences of Interrogation of a Witness of Alaeans." I read it and didn't realize the night or the hat. I read a sentence to the Minister of the Interior, and he didn't understand anything either. I'm going to read it to you now, and I'm going to ask you how you understand it. 'The practitioner may invite a child welfare officer, a social worker, a pedagogue or a psychologist to be interviewed by a minor witness. ' Then comes the condition: if the witness is younger than 14 years of age and the interrogation relates to violence.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U167	What's so crazy? There is also an explanatory memorandum to the draft. If you take an explanatory statement concerning § 81, you will receive a more precise explanation. In short, however, § 81 makes sense that, unlike the law in force, the proposal is to increase the rights of the minor and his representative, in other words to ensure greater protection for minors in misdemeanour proceedings. If you are a little concerned about the so-called grammatical interpretation of this wording, I understand that at first reading it may seem that the interrogation itself is linked to violence. Of course, it is a matter of violence that has been committed against a minor. But hopefully, the explanatory memorandum will clarify the meaning of this provision. As usual, one bill must be read with an explanatory statement.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U168	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U169	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, It has been said a thousand times in this Chamber that the explanatory memorandum is not what one institution or another is about, however, according to the law. I have a question with regard to § 20 (3), which says: 'If, after the proceedings have been opened, the person under proceedings changes his place of residence or his place of residence, the case may be dealt with at his request according to his new place of residence or residence. " It is quite possible that one person has two residences, two apartments. It's started, the person re-registered, now send in the materials. By the time they get there, it'll be a month or two. The defendant returns to his own place, and so it may last indefinitely. It won't be hard to re-register until the whole thing expires. Can you explain how to handle this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U170	Thank you. I can still explain. This concerns directly the right of the defendant and, on the other hand, the right under the proceedings. In other words, if the person under investigation changes his place of residence, as you said, the various prefectures are known to be dealing with the case, for example, when we are talking about police work. In fact, it doesn't matter if we talk about the Environmental Inspectorate, for example, one or the other misdemeanour is also being dealt with by different departments. Suppose the violation was committed in Tallinn. The Prefecture of the North will start proceedings in Tallinn and the person will change his place of residence, register in Tartu. If the defendant agrees and the person under proceedings so requests, he or she may continue to be dealt with by the Southern Prefecture in Tartu and will continue to be discussed by the Tartu County Court, for example, on the basis of the residence of the person, or more likely to the Tartu Administrative Court. The idea is to make the process more flexible. If the person has moved to Tartu, he or she does not necessarily have to come to Tallinn during the misdemeanour procedure or go to Tallinn until the procedure is completed, but it is possible to hand it over. This does not mean that the procedure will be delayed, the procedure will continue for a specified period of time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U171	Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U172	Thank you. Mr. Minister! My question concerns Chapter 6, the general conditions for certification and taking of evidence. Paragraph 65 states: "The evidence shall be collected in a manner which does not offend the honour and dignity of the participant in the collection, does not endanger his life or health and does not unduly cause material damage. It shall be prohibited to obtain evidence of undue violence against a person... " What is the cause of violence, and to what extent can violence be used? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U173	Thank you. In the practice of police work, or in the practice of misconceptions at all, it is sometimes necessary to use physical force. It is clear that if an out-of-court tribunal needs to exercise physical force, it does not have to be ruled out. I believe that if you know anything about police work, you know that the police have the right to use handcuffs. But when handcuffs are used, it's the use of force in itself. However, if a person is not aggressive and there is no need to use handcuffs, but they are still used, that is unwarranted. When a person is calm, he obeys the police's orders, there is no reason to use physical force. So this provision is written in here, first and foremost, to the judge, so that he does not cross the border.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U174	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U175	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, My question also relates to § 65. Paragraph 5 provides that the Registrar may prohibit participants from publishing information which has become known in the course of a procedural procedure if this is contrary to the grounds laid down in § 59 of this Code. One basis is that the interests of the Republic of Estonia will not be undermined. This is paragraph 1, point 2. Hence the question: How does the extra-judicial judge assess the size of the interests of the Republic of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U176	Thank you. You don't have to worry about that. If an out-of-court proceeding encounters this need, he or she shall assess it. If there is such a situation that the person subject to the proceedings or the party to the proceedings nevertheless discloses such information, the final fact shall be disputed in court. However, if we look at the basis of the differences and the general conditions for the taking of evidence, in conjunction with § 65 and § 59, it is clear that the interaction between the two sections is intended to ensure an objective procedure and that the procedure also obtains an objective solution. After all, the defendant is primarily interested in an objective solution. It is necessary to ensure that the evidence collected, whether in physical form, digital form or any other way, is reproduced and used until the outcome of the legal proceedings or of the misdemeanour proceedings, if the extra-judicial tribunal itself takes such a decision and is not infringed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U177	Vladimir Velman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U178	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good minister! My question concerns § 97 (1). It states that the purpose of the observation is to collect the data necessary for the settlement of a misdemeanour, to detect traces of misdemeanour and to take away the objects used as evidence. Thus, for example, a person's computer can be taken away for observation purposes. Withdrawal is a serious violation of a person's rights which does not coincide with the concept of observation. Why is there a need to take it away from an observation?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U179	Thank you. Of course, when we talk about the purpose of the observation, as you yourself have read, the purpose of the observation is to collect the data necessary to resolve a misdemeanour. You were talking about the computer, but you can also give another example. Misdemeanours are all kinds of violations of public order and may be the subject of a public infringement or a breach of public order, for example, the dog poop is not a pretty example, but a basically understandable example. In that case, it means that as evidence, you may need to take the dog poop off the street or take a picture of it. Let us understand, however, that the evidence gathered during the observation is meaningful only if it is important in a particular misdemeanour. And if we go to criminal proceedings, there's a way to take things away. When reviewing the Code of Criminal Procedure, it is likely that we will no longer have the concept of 'take'. A person may voluntarily consent to give away an object as evidence in criminal proceedings, but there is no longer a concept of seizure in criminal proceedings. Such an option must be available in the case of an observation under the misdemeanour procedure. You produce an example, but the law must be universal. Of course, if the removal of a computer is disproportionate, such withdrawal must not be implemented.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U180	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U181	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I'm sorry, but listening to my colleagues' questions and your answers, it seems that the drafters live in an ivory tower and do not know much about real life. Paragraph 82 (1) (5) provides that a spouse, a permanent partner and his or her parent, including the person with whom the accused has terminated his or her marriage or permanent partnership, may refuse to testify. How does an extra-judicial practitioner check when the partnership ended or whether it was permanent? People live in a common-law relationship, today they're together, tomorrow they argue, and life together is over. What should the judge decide in such a situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U182	Thank you. I am pleased that the Adviser to the Centre Party has done a good job and has brought out a few paragraphs from individual paragraphs to you. Thanks for the good work. These proposals could also be forwarded to the Committee on Legal Affairs. If you now pass on the meaning of § 82 to your adviser, § 82 provides for the rights of the person subject to proceedings. Perhaps if a person says that he or she is in a common-law relationship or says that he or she cannot testify in this case because he or she is in a permanent partnership with the defendant, that right is given here. It is not the decision of the judge, but the right of the person subject to the proceedings and the person living with him not to do so. If you take the beginning of § 82 (1), you will see that the right to refuse to testify as a witness is close to the person under proceedings; this right is granted to a close person rather than to the person dealing with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U183	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U184	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Compared to the law currently in force, the new text is much harsher. If you read, you can see that a great deal has been taken over from the Code of Criminal Procedure. My question has to do with this. Has the misdemeanours committed in Estonia become more difficult in recent years?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U185	Thank you. I do not agree with you in this respect that the text is tougher. This code, which is on the table before you, will greatly protect the rights of the individual and the fundamental freedoms of the individual. As has already been mentioned, there is greater protection of the rights of minors, as well as the right to include witnesses, the right to include protection, etc. This Code protects the fundamental rights of individuals considerably more. I think it is very reasonable that the two procedural codes on offences are more methodically similar to each other. Because when we talk about criminal proceedings and misdemeanours and crimes and criminal proceedings, it makes perfect sense that these procedures are comparable in terms of conduct and, above all, from the point of view of protecting persons, and are based on the same principles. But, of course, there are very many differences here because, in the case of crimes, the violation of the fundamental rights of a person is significantly greater and criminal proceedings are a major violation of fundamental rights. If you ask me if the law has gotten tougher, I'll say no, it hasn't gotten tougher. However, the rules of procedure must be those which, on the one hand, give the State the opportunity to intervene effectively and quickly and, on the other hand, give the person every opportunity to defend his or her rights. As I said in my introductory speech, even the right to pay a fine in the longer term is considerably more lenient for a person and more considerate of his fundamental rights. The current regulation, according to which the fine must be paid within 15 days, and, if not paid, the matter will go to the executioner, I do not think it makes sense. If a person has not reached payday and the result is that, in addition to the amount of the fine, he must immediately bear the additional costs of the enforcement proceedings, that is unreasonable. I say that the proposed maximum 90 days, or three months, will be much more lenient and friendly for a person, even if he has broken the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U186	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Igor Gräzini, member of the Legal Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U187	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs looked at and considered this matter and generally found it to be good. However, neither your questions nor the Minister's explanations ran through this bill, the really important problem that needs to be considered in this Chamber, nor in the Committee on Legal Affairs. That is exactly what the Minister mentioned at the end. This is that the code and the area of law we are discussing is very close to criminal proceedings. We see a lot of places where things are almost collapsing. Not only has it gone so far here that, for example, an appeal, cassation, revision, etc., takes place in the face of a criminal procedure, which is absurd. There can't be such a thing. When we are talking about two different areas of law with different regulatory objects and different regulatory methods, one cannot apply the other. That's not possible. On the other hand, it is also quite clear why the great work that the Minister was talking about here has been done. Over time, we have developed a great many violations of law, offences that should not exist and cannot be dealt with in criminal proceedings. In this sense, in answer to one of the questions asked, the Estonian state has become much less relaxed. We are much softer, gentler, and more understanding than we were until now, and we have met all the people who have accidentally or less accidentally transgressed the law. However, this problem in itself, where one branch of law ends and another begins, does indeed exist in that law. I would like to mention another case that has not been mentioned here, this is a connection to the Code of Civil Procedure. For example, the delivery of a warning takes place at all in civil proceedings, which have nothing to do with a misdemeanour, this reference exists here. So here's, I'd say, the core of the problem. This bill has been working on, as we can see from the explanatory memorandum, a few dozen people from the ministry, the academy, and so on, who are the peaks of our legal processualistics. It is quite clear that the questions that I have now put stood before them and they have given a positive answer. The result is a law that, as a whole, is harmonious, logical, understandable, and I think it is extremely simple for the implementer. He doesn't have to be easy in everything for the perpetrator. In the end, he thinks about how to speed up, but not how many days after that he'll have to pay a fine. So, as a whole, this step has been difficult and difficult, but it is, in my opinion, a step towards reducing humanism, mind and the administrative burden on the country. What, then, did the Commission discuss? The Commission has examined the whole "kirpiche" as it is here. I also point out that this law is also presented as a draft of a legal, technically extremely high quality. In fact, we have a text, with an explanatory memorandum, a completely separate impact analysis behind the explanatory memorandum, and then the costs that the implementation of the law will entail, then there will be a table of opinions and proposals, and there will be a table of contents at the end. In short, this code has been analysed essentially once in a text and four times in different aspects. The Commission could not pay attention and did not pay attention to all the objections and arguments, in particular those which were subsequently taken into account. However, the most important problem that has remained and which needs to be discussed within a few weeks is the interrelationship between the different legal sectors, on which you will find arguments, in particular, in the table of the proposals for improvement. See what the Bar Association has offered and what the Supreme Court has spoken about. One subject of the debate that ran through was, as always, about money, but not about this aspect, as is usually said in the press, how many fines must be collected to fill the budget gaps (by the way, it has been shown that it is 0.00087%, so there is no real income). It was said that we could need either EUR 400000 or EUR 100000 in a few years in order to establish a mechanism for processing electronic or digital documents. Here's the decision-making point. The difference is, in short, whether to create a single central system, so-called once and forever, so that we would have done this once and there would be one central e-file system in Estonia (400000), or to try to develop an e-file system for all processors, they are then according to the Ministry of the Environment, the Tax Administration, etc., in short, all of whom we have figured out as a processing agent. It's a place of financial decision. We don't have to pay that money tomorrow, but still relatively soon. The whole transition to digital and electronic administration will take a few years, according to the assumptions presented here, so we can talk about the completion of the digital system probably in 2016. Maybe one more question that ran through the discussions, but somehow stayed in the air. This is a question of who is the structure, who is the process and who is involved in the whole procedure in the misdemeanour proceedings, compared to the criminal and civil proceedings. I don't know if you noticed one very peculiar fact. In particular, there is one type of procedure, that is, when it comes to out-of-court proceedings, what should be the third party in a normal civil process. The most interesting of all is that there is only a third party without entitlement, i.e. the person who may be subject to confiscation requirements. The third party entitled to claim does not exist at all in an out-of-court procedure. This is also not the case in court proceedings, although there is, of course, a certain logic here for the simple reason that it may be a little new construction here, but why not, in a paradoxical way, be the court that represents the state and the victim in this case. Because ultimately, it is the court through which the damages are claimed, and damages can then be claimed by a person who has actually suffered the damage in normal civil proceedings. So we spoke in committee, the hour was full, and the next item had to be discussed. So, what did we decide? Firstly, on behalf of the Commission, I call on you to reconsider this document as carefully as possible, because it is a large and very important piece of paper. Every proposal is more than welcome, although it seems to me that most of the possible proposals have already been written. In our view, the deadline for amendments could be 29 January 2014, in two weeks' time. Our proposal is to finish the first reading. I was honored to speak here in front of you. All these decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U188	Thank you. You have questions too. Peter Võsa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U189	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I have questions about § 57 of this bill, 'Referring property to the prosecutor's office in the event of the appearance of a crime'. At the moment, it has been a practice that the extra-judicial tribunal does not hand over the case to the prosecutor's office, but to the investigating authority that is dealing with the case under the supervision of the prosecutor's office, if there are any signs of a crime. Now, if all this paperwork starts through the prosecutor's office, it will prolong the process, I think, for at least ten days. Is that reasonable?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U190	We didn't discuss that, but, Peter, look what I think. First of all, the material and stories that go into the prosecution's office's criminal record cannot be very much. If in nine cases we're talking about the same dog poop or speeding, where do you send this material so much? It's theme number one. I would even say that plus is that the duty falls to the prosecutor's office and he is also competent to decide whether there are any of these features or just seemed to be one. In this sense, competence increases. But I agree with you, if you say otherwise. Since we don't have practice right now, you think so, I guess so, let's see.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U191	Please, Marko Pomerance!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U192	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good colleague Gräzin! I understand you're dealing with criminal proceedings and misdemeanor proceedings as different areas of law. Please explain what there could be a fundamental difference. If in one case, for example, EUR 63 has been stolen and, in the other case, EUR 65 has been stolen, according to today's law, one goes under one procedure and the other. What is the justification for immediately initiating a different type of or different procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U193	If I tell you quite honestly, I don't know. But since I have to answer more or less intelligently, I will, of course, come up with an answer for you. The main issue from the state's point of view is certain economics. You see, to deal with the case of a punched plastic bag or two bottles of vodka in the same way as the bank's intentional bankruptcy or something like that means, here is simply a question of procedural economy. In the end, by the way, there is only one document. There is also an urgent procedure and an ordinary procedure. What's the difference? In one piece of paper, one has a protocol and the other doesn't. But it's already changing the picture: if there is a protocol, there's a normal procedure, without protocol there's an urgent procedure. Now, imagine this thing, put the DA's office on this end and this whole investigative machine we're talking about. It all comes down to this dog... you see, I can't get rid of that example. In short, it all comes down to, say, this license plate, etc. From a state point of view, it makes sense to do two things: firstly, to distinguish between these two branches, one of which is much easier than the other, and at the same time to make sure that they fit together, that they are separate but well-similar.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U194	Let's keep going. Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U195	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I tried to calm down and find confidence on the advice of the minister, but I couldn't find any way. Maybe you can answer the same question, and then I'll be in a more secure position. How does the extra-judicial judge assess the size of the interests of the Republic of Estonia? I'm afraid there's more subjectivity here than objectivity.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U196	An out-of-court judge, or official, is called a police officer, but an inspector, in any way, is an official representative of the state and an official official of the state. This is our social agreement, we agree that you and I are ordinary, that what you think and what I think doesn't matter, but he's in shape and on the street, and his opinion is important. That's the deal. We can't guarantee absolute certainty in such a way that this discretion doesn't make any sense. The question is simply that we need to find the people we trust in no matter who, make sure that the police, the IRS and so on work good, honest patriots, people with conscience.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U197	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U198	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Paragraph 159 (8) states that if an out-of-court practitioner fails to present a copy of the amended or redrafted misdemeanour protocol to the person subject to the proceedings, the time limit for receipt of the settlement provided for in subsection 161 (5) of this Code shall be interrupted until the introduction and service of the amended or redrafted misdemeanour protocol to the person subject to the proceedings. Igor, how long can the maximum break time be?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U199	Now here's the question of whether or not they live in an ivory tower. Actually, that time could be infinite. Go to the first bailiff that happens, and he'll tell you they can't work because they can't deliver any enforcement documents. I think you agree with me on that. The first procedural document, for example, which I have always received about myself, is usually a bailiff's paper that says go and pay. All these years, I've gotten dozens of bailiffs' papers, but I haven't gotten any decisions as to why I was speeding. And apparently that's the way it's gonna be. Note what the Minister said: we are trying to do this by at least taking the place of the register, that we are trying to make something better. However, there is no guarantee in a democratic society where every person lives where he or she wants to declare what he or she wants, just not. I've even told the fulfillers that this is my address, next time you come, bring it there. Not helping.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U200	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U201	Thank you, Mr President. The rapporteur from the Commission. Looking at the volume of this draft and feeling today's optimism, I ask: how does the Commission assess how many compromises and disputes have already been reached? Or is it foreseen that a thorough procedure in the Commission will require substantial changes to the draft, and that there is already quite a lot of intrigue inside this rather large draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U202	It's hard to answer you, but I can tell you one thing. Well, we've had all sorts of drafts, but technically, it's one of the best that's ever been through this hall. The fact that there are contentions at the end of the debate means at least that we no longer have to look for the finger, whether it is a problem and whether it is a problem. It says here that this is the problem, and there are also solutions. How can I put it? We're right in the middle of it. And by the way, why are the opposition issues so clever today? Because the paper is thick, but easy to read. So I think we're gonna make it. I have mentioned this most important point of dispute to you, but a fundamental decision has been made: we need a new misdemeanor procedure, there are all 52 corrections in it, etc. I think we should keep going. It'll work, don't worry!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U203	Good waitress, for this paper, which is fat, but easy to read, no more questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U204	Thanks, everybody!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U205	Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. The position of the commission is to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline for the submission of 500 amendments at 16.15 p.m. on 29 January. The first reading is closed and the fourth item is dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U206	We will move to the fifth item, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U207	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Members of the Riigikogu! I will introduce you to the draft Act amending the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act. In short, this bill makes two changes to the conditions of registration as unemployed. The first amendment concerns the members of the management and control bodies of the legal person at the time when they manage the undertaking themselves and the second concerns the guardians to whom the municipality or city administration pays support for the maintenance. Under the current law, a member of the management or control body of a legal person who does not receive a fee shall be registered as unemployed. According to the draft, the directors and prosecutors of the company will no longer be registered as unemployed, even if they do not receive any remuneration. Non-remuneration for the management of the company does not necessarily mean that the manager of the company does not actually work. It is possible that the head of the company will earn his or her remuneration while simultaneously being the owner of the company, for example as the owner's income. In the case of members of other management and control bodies of a company (member of the Council, founder, liquidator, etc.), the current arrangements for registration as unemployed remain in force and can be registered as unemployed. I would point out that many very dignified speakers have, unfortunately, misunderstood the meaning of this law. Today's Eesti Päevaleht also contains an article where an opinion editor who feels very well about economic matters describes this law as a law that does not allow the managers of a company who have become unemployed to be registered as unemployed. No, that's not what this is about. We are talking about the time when the person is running the company, he is a member of the management board, he is not being wound up, he has confirmed in the annual report that the company is operating as stated in the annual report each year. When a person runs a business, he or she cannot be unemployed at the same time. I believe everyone in the hall agrees with this principle. Under current law, company managers are also privileged to register as unemployed compared to those who are not registered as unemployed and self-employed. Self-employed persons are unable to register for unemployment regardless of whether they receive remuneration or not. It's already a set of rules. Under the current Labour Market Services and Benefits Act, carers cannot be registered. The legislative amendment allows this to be done. The Unemployment Insurance Fund helps carers to get a job by providing job vacancies and other employment services that help to find a job. If it is not possible for the local government to organise the care of the family member immediately, the unemployment fund may compensate the unemployed for the cost of replacement care so that the carer can use employment services and/or take up work. The draft gives the unemployment fund the right to organise the work placement itself, to update the procedures for registering unemployed and as a job seeker and to pay the salary allowance. From 1 March 2014, the application for registration as an unemployed person and a job seeker can also be submitted through the unemployment fund's website. It also provides for the possibility to pay benefits and benefits at the request of the unemployed to another person's bank account, i.e. their payment will be aligned with the payment of other benefits and, for example, pensions. The salary allowance will be paid on the basis of data from the unemployment insurance database. At present, the employer has to submit a salary certificate to the unemployment fund. The number of persons on account who are unemployed may be reduced by a maximum of 3000 as a result of the change concerning the members of the management and control bodies and by a maximum of 2000 as a result of the change concerning the guardians of the disabled person. However, this naturally depends on the choices made by each individual. It is logical that, for example, in companies that do not actually operate, members of the management board initiate the liquidation of the company and in that case they will be able to register as unemployed if they so wish. It might also be too much to expect that all those who are caring for themselves will immediately register at the unemployment fund, wishing to receive labour market services. Due to two changes in the conditions of unemployment, the number of unemployed may change overall. In this regard, the explanatory memorandum also contains calculations. Thank you. This is a very good draft, which I ask to support.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U208	Thank you. You have at least one question. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U209	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You have already mentioned what has been said in the media here. However, quite a few who have been familiar with this bill have certainly come up with the same question. In our group, too, there was a rather lively debate on this, thinking about how much people had to wait for businesses in the closet or on the shelf during the crisis for a time when entrepreneurship could be continued, with perhaps slightly more favourable conditions. The restriction under the Labour Market Services Act now gives a clear signal that if you have a company, it is ever established, but at present it has no turnover, no income, so that you can maintain your family at all, you must liquidate the company if you do not have any other means of registering yourself unemployed. Is that reasonable?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U210	Thank you. Now we are going to the area of business law, which is certainly not directly the responsibility of the Minister of Social Affairs. Unfortunately, according to Estonian business law, the head of the company confirms in the annual report that the company is operating. If the company does not act, the manager shall have the possibility to initiate winding-up proceedings and shall be able to obtain all employment services from the moment the liquidation proceedings are opened and the manager is registered as a liquidator. I believe you agree with me that when you run a business, even if it is a small business, a person is not unemployed at the same time. A person cannot work and be unemployed at the same time. Unfortunately, this change has not come from a completely empty point of view. According to the Unemployment Insurance Fund, there are quite a number of cases where companies actually operate, the owner of the company and the member of the management board, who is one person, receive their income as owner's income, and the unemployment fund is simply used to obtain health insurance and unemployment benefit. Real labour market measures are not recommended. This allowance and the total health insurance cover cost the state more than EUR 200 per month. This opportunity has begun to be used by quite a large number of managers of companies that are actually operating and we do not consider it fair to those people who actually need such state support.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U211	Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U212	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! However, I will continue to develop the subject of Malik. Unfortunately, we tend to create laws on the assumption that all Estonian people are frauds. I'll give you a better example, so try to answer me. I am a member of the Riigikogu, but I also belong to the board of several dozen companies and approve the annual reports. I don't get paid from these companies because I work in the Riigikogu, and that's ethical. I've been hired by people who operate in these companies. I am leaving the Riigikogu and I am unemployed because I have no reason to tell anyone that you should leave now because I have no right to register at the unemployment fund. Why am I being punished for being ethically distanced from entrepreneurship as a Member of Parliament? I have companies, but basically I'm unemployed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U213	Thank you. In this regulation, if a member of the Riigikogu who has his own social guarantees, which are not part of the ordinary unemployment insurance system, or the manager of the company actually remains unemployed and no longer manages the company, this bill does not provide for any changes. I was pointing out that the public has mistakenly circled perceptions as if they were. No, I'm not. If a person has been managing a business so far, has been a member of the management board and, for some reason, is unemployed, no longer managing a business, he or she will be able to register as unemployed. That's one. Secondly, there are additional rules and possibilities for members of the Riigikogu, as you know. Thirdly, if you are the owner of the company but are not a member of the company's board at the same time, if you have other people working there, you should not be affected by this bill in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U214	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U215	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I would like to clarify the situation of the Foundation and the people of the NGO. Since you were also active in society before becoming a minister, you are certainly aware that very many people in Estonia belong to various NGOs and participate in initiatives. They usually don't get paid at all, and even if there's a reward, it's very small. This bill will change the situation. Perhaps you will specify that people do not expect surprises here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U216	Thank you. Members of the corporate board, founders, liquidators as well as members of the management and control bodies of non-profit organisations and foundations will retain these opportunities. The bill does not change anything here, especially because NGOs are very often managed either socially or, as you said, for a very small fee. The current law also provides for a threshold for this very low fee. If the head of a non-profit organisation is below that level, there are no obstacles to registering as unemployed at the same time. We also left this distinction to the members of the company's board, also because, according to Estonian business law or Estonian business practice, being a member of the company's board is not a full-time job. So, theoretically, it's conceivable that a person is a member of the board and is looking for a job at the same time. Therefore, the distinction of a member of the Governing Council will remain. The direct answer to your question is: the managers of non-profit organisations and foundations are not affected by this change.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U217	Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U218	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I'm going to develop a little bit more of my mind. As one of the measures on the labour market, we have quite a lot of promotion that if you do not find a job, you become an entrepreneur. The start-up of a business has been made very easy, and can be done without the payment of share capital or share capital, essentially without leaving the computer. Apparently, a lot of people have, encouraged by this, even on the proposal of the unemployment fund, made themselves a business that has not been able to start an economic activity because there is no idea. Now this person is the owner and member of the board, the action is zero, and he's still in trouble. What about these people? According to this law, he is literally an entrepreneur, it is his problem that he cannot do anything with this company.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U219	Thank you. That's a very good question. This is what we have discussed with the leaders of the Service Economy Chamber. I don't think anyone's gonna make a business without an idea. I'm sure he's got an idea. However, you are right in the fact that it is very likely that this company will not immediately generate income in the first few months so that it is possible to actually pay the board member's salary. We have discussed that it may be reasonable to make a transitional provision. If the unemployment fund itself grants start-up support, for example, make it impossible to apply this rule to newly created enterprises for the first three months, so that the person who starts a business without a job can still be registered as unemployed for the first three months from the start-up. Such a change would certainly be worth considering in the Commission, and it is probably possible to discuss it with the target groups. We discussed the Service Economy Chamber, for example, with this result. It would actually make sense, we understand that in the first few months, the company may not be able to earn immediately, especially if it is a company established with the support of the unemployment fund itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U220	Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U221	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I have the same question about the self-employed. Let me get this straight: whether they get paid or not, in either case, the self-employed are not in a position to register?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U222	Thank you. That is exactly the case, and this is also the case in the current law, which we are not changing in any way with the draft we are discussing. In the case of self-employed persons, it is in a sense a hybrid format that a person is at the same time an employee, an entrepreneur and, in a sense, a company. The logic is also that, since self-employed persons do not pay unemployment insurance contributions in the case of self-employed persons, it is very difficult to explain whether they should pay from turnover or after business-related costs have been deducted, regulation has been made years ago so that self-employed persons cannot be registered as unemployed. However, a person has a free choice as to whether he or she acts as a self-employed person, where he or she has one of his or her rights and obligations, I dare say that he or she has both advantages and disadvantages, or as a private limited company, where he or she has the freedom to choose whether to act as a member of the management board or as an employee, for example by paying unemployment insurance contributions. Well, that's a theoretical possibility, if he's an employee. As a member of the management board, no industrial contribution can be paid voluntarily. The board members aren't paying it now, are they?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U223	Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U224	I will continue on the same subject. After all, self-employment is the same as a private limited company. Shouldn't they be treated the same way?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U225	Thank you. No, I don't think he's exactly the same as the person who establishes a private limited company and works there either as a board member or as an employee of the company, or as the owner and hires a board member. All of these formats differ from one another, and all of them certainly have a common part. There have been differences in the past and it will probably be in the future. But once again, this particular draft does not change anything about it. The status of self-employed persons is such an interesting subject that it could not be discussed by the Committee on Social Affairs, but the Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Riigikogu will be discussed indefinitely. As Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I too carried these discussions in my time, and there were all sorts of interesting ideas.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U226	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Please ask Margus Tsahkna, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U227	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear fellow Members of the Riigikogu! The Committee on Social Affairs discussed draft 521 at its meeting on 16 December. The meeting was attended by Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas and Adviser to the Labour Market Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Õie Jõgiste. The minister gave an overview of the draft, just as he did here today in his speech. The issues that arose in the Commission during the debate were the same as those in this Chamber. They asked why the members of the company's board of directors were distinguished from other employees. The answers were the same as those given here. The aim of the draft is to ensure that labour market services and support are provided by the people who need to receive them. It also examined how many so-called schemers could be present in the legal area of labour market services and benefits. The representatives of the Ministry said there were about a thousand people like this. These are people who do not receive remuneration on the company's board and are therefore registered as unemployed. However, there are doubts that they will actually withdraw their remuneration in some other way, avoiding social and unemployment contributions. So the purpose of this provision and the amendment is to ensure fairness and to clarify the law so that services can be provided by those who pay taxes. Those who evade taxes with no tips cannot or will have to waive the position of a member of the company's board of directors, and then they will be able to register as unemployed. Another important issue that has been less discussed here is that we are extending the scope of labour market service recipients to those who receive carer support and do the work of an informal carer. They can now be registered as unemployed and provided with services. The Committee on Social Affairs decided by consensus to propose that the draft be put on the agenda for the plenary session on 15 January 2014, ending the first reading and setting the deadline for submitting amendments at the 10 working days provided for by law, i.e. 29 January at 5.15 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U228	There are no questions. Thanks to the waitress! Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? They do. I open negotiations and ask for a speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Estonian Centre Party Group Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U229	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, I may be removed from the party's list, but in the discussion room, I was invited to speak here. I arbitrarily took the right to speak on behalf of the group, because in the group we were talking about this issue. What's the latest trend? The trend is that the government is going to come to the Riigikogu with drafts that seem to be hurriedly invented somewhere. There can be no actual discussion in the Riigikogu hall, as the government coalition does not intend to oppose the minister. After all, the people that the coalition parties fully trust will be appointed minister, and how do you still work against the minister? The most painful part of the bill we are currently discussing, which we have been seriously discussing here today in the round of questions and answers, looks exactly like we washed the baby nicely, wanted life to get better, but we forgot to do the last thing and threw the baby out the door with the washing water. What am I talking about? I am talking about the fact that we have created a very liberal business environment in Estonia. It is really easy to start businesses, they have now been registered over 200,000, but I think that the report, not the so-called 'zero declarations', clearly presents less than half of them, if not to say that there are perhaps 30000 50000 active players. All the rest are businesses for business purposes, done in one way or another. This law doesn't do anything wrong now, but it's putting one problem in the air for society again. It hangs up the problem for society that, with its liberal environment, we are, as if, promoting entrepreneurship and many people, driven by the desire not to get caught up in life's gears, not to be losers, trying to find a solution to unemployment status in any way. And one rather widespread and simple way is to become an entrepreneur. Some of it actually works. Here comes the next problem. In many areas of activity, it has happened that there are no longer contracts of employment, but also contacts with businesses within the process. Service invoices will be submitted and then the company that owns the limited company will have to look at how it pays its salary or whatever it does. So there's a lot of confusion in that sense. One area, for example, is entertainment business, where it is certainly used. There is quite a lot, however, of a situation where a person has made a company for himself in a good way, it has a register, he is a member of the company's board of directors, but he has never been able to get that company to work, he does not even know exactly how it could work. But it's like he feels more secure, like he's a better person, because he's an entrepreneur. Now the Ministry of Social Affairs comes up with a bill that gives itself, in a sense, an opportunity to punish these people. I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U230	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U231	We're creating a kind of paranoid situation. The goal is, in fact, noble. I am very impressed by the reasons that the Ministry and the Chairman of the Commission have pointed out that about a thousand people are currently basically deceiving the environment. But does it give us the right to take a long spruceprop and clear the place around us, say that now it is, and no variation of any kind will remain? I don't think it's right in the sense that this is how we start to push the other end down a person's desire to change something for ourselves when he's in a difficult situation. We're gonna push him like this, I dare say, all the way through with unthinkable measures back into the freeze again, so don't do anything, take the money from the state, and you're gonna be the best. Because as soon as you do something, there might be some kind of nuance that's gonna harass you. It is up to us to think that this would not be the case, and that is why we in the Central Party have reacted relatively painfully to this. We must give society intelligent ideas for discussion, which are clear to us. This is for the simple reason that otherwise there will be uncertainty, fear of being bad enough, and now I have to wait every day, hump my back, and think about what will come from there again. Now that's the sad part. I am completely unacceptable, and I think that it is totally unacceptable for the majority of the members of the Centre Party to be punished for some narrow group. That's not a good tone! However, this is what happens to us in a row and in a row, we have laws that are made in a hurry. The last one was the 1000-euro bill declaration thing. Finally, however, there were reasonable people on the side of the coalition who really dared to stand up and say that this is not the way to do it. But he still left, and thanks to the president, he's coming back here. Now I'm going to repeat my mantra. Dear coalition parties! If you continue this way, the population, the electorate, will lose absolutely any confidence in you, which will make it possible for a left turn to take place in Estonia in 2015. However, given the fragile situation of our economy, this may not be the best solution for the country and the people. The Social Democrats are not our path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U232	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The position of the commission is to conclude the first reading of draft 521. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 521 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 29 January. The first reading is closed and the fifth item is dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U233	We will move on to the sixth item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the pharmaceutical law initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U234	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The purpose of this draft is to transpose the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the safety of medicinal products. The proposal harmonises the regulatory framework for pharmacovigilance, extends the requirements for the identification of pharmacovigilance safety signs and enhances the effectiveness of urgent action within the European Economic Area in relation to pharmacovigilance. The draft also provides for the obligation for the marketing authorisation holder to inform the Agency of the reasons for the interruption or discontinuation of the marketing of the medicinal product in Estonia. The current Pharmaceutical Act requires that the Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH), the person who delivers the medicinal product, must inform the Agency about the withdrawal of the medicinal product from the market or the interruption of the supply of the medicinal product two months in advance. The Directive also obliges the marketing authorisation holder to justify this. Until now, no such justification has been requested from the Marketing Authorisation Holders. However, it is not excluded that the marketing authorisation holder has discontinued or discontinued the marketing of the medicinal product in relation to pharmacovigilance concerns, but the problem has been overlooked in the absence of a justification requirement. Therefore, it is necessary for the marketing authorisation holder to explain the reasons both in case of supply difficulties and in case of marketing termination. It also provides for the obligation of the marketing authorisation holder to justify the non-renewal of the marketing authorisation. The marketing authorisation shall, as a general rule, be renewed for an indefinite period after the initial period of five years. The amendment will help identify situations where the withdrawal of a marketing authorisation may be related to a pharmacovigilance problem. The law enters into force in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U235	Thank you! There are no questions. Please present the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee Margus Tsahkna!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U236	Good manager! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Just as here, the Minister gave an overview of the draft in the Commission. The Committee on Social Affairs discussed this draft at its meeting on 16 December 2013. The Commission decided to send the draft law amending the Law on Medicinal Products to the first reading by 15 January with a proposal to terminate the first reading. The decision was consensual. It was proposed to set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 10 working days, i.e. 29 January. It was the Commission's decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U237	Thank you! There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? There's no call. The position of the commission is to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline for the submission of 532 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 29 January. The first reading is closed and the sixth item on the agenda is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U238	Let's move on to item seven. We will begin the first reading of the draft Act amending the Health Insurance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please, the floor is on Minister of Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U239	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The draft law amending the Health Insurance Act harmonises the conditions and deadlines for obtaining health insurance and clarifies the regulation of price agreements for medicinal products. According to the first amendment, persons will receive insurance cover in place of a contract with an indefinite or more than one month's term under debt law with a maturity of more than three months. As a prerequisite for obtaining insurance protection, the condition remains that the other party of the contract must pay social tax for the person at least for the financial year at the monthly rate established by the state budget. In simple language, this means that people who do not have regular monthly salaries, such as creators or creative people who are paid irregularly, have a one-month contract to obtain health insurance cover. This change has been made in cooperation with the Ministry of Culture and representatives of creative people. Similarly, medical insurance cover will apply more quickly to members of management and control bodies and persons working under a debt-law contract than the three-month waiting period so far, and now it will be 14 days. The change will lead to an increase in the number of insured persons and a reduction in the time limit for receiving health insurance. Another important set of changes complements the regulation of price agreements for medicinal products by adding the basis for updating price agreements. The current regulation only concerns the conclusion of price agreements, but now it also includes renewal. As a rule, price fixing is valid for one year, and if neither party wishes to change the price arrangement, the agreement will be automatically extended for the following year. In this way, the agreement may be prolonged several times. The circumstances in which the automatic extension of the price fixing is to be waived have not been presented so far. This has led to a situation where the prices of medicines will gradually decrease in other Member States over time, but Estonia will remain at the same level as at the time of the price fixing. The purpose of the draft is therefore to provide a basis for reviewing prices both in the conclusion of the price fixing and in the extension thereof. In essence, a basis is created for regular updating of the price of preferential medicines according to how prices have changed in other Member States. According to the draft, for the renewal and conclusion of the price agreement, Estonia's prices are compared with the prices of the three EU Member States at the same level of development. These countries are Latvia, Lithuania and Slovakia. The effect of the change means cheaper medicines in Estonia, according to how medicines are cheaper in other European Union countries. I would ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U240	Minister, thank you. There are no questions. Please present the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee Margus Tsahkna!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U241	Thank you, good manager. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! This draft law was discussed by the Committee on Social Affairs on 16 December 2013. The Minister of Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas, gave an overview of the government bill. Dagmar Rüütel, Head of the Medicine Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, and Ülle Jordan, Head Specialist of the Health Department also participated in the discussion. The Minister also gave an overview of the content of the draft here. What I can say is that this is, in a way, an addition to the Creative Act that we passed last year. The amendment simply complements and clarifies the right to sickness insurance for those who are not in employment relationships on the basis of employment contracts but on the basis of other debt contracts. As the Minister said, the deadlines will be shortened and, ultimately, the aim will be to extend the range of persons covered by health insurance. The Commission decided to send the draft amendment to the Health Insurance Act to its first reading on 15 January 2014 with a proposal to conclude the first reading (this proposal was consensual) and to set ten working days by which amendments would be tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U242	Thank you! There are no questions. Do the groups want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. The position of the commission is to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 551 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 29 January. The first reading is closed and the seventh item on the agenda is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U243	Let's move on to item eight. We will begin the first reading of the draft of the Riigikogu decision 'Cultural Policy Fundamentals until 2020' presented by the Government of the Republic. Urve Tiidus, Minister of Culture of the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U244	Manager, I'm sorry! To begin with, I will briefly present the history of obtaining this draft decision. Sixteen years ago, the fundamentals of cultural policy were approved in the Riigikogu. It was 1998 then. These fundamentals are still valid, but time doesn't stop. Therefore, the programme of action of the Government of the Republic for the years 2011 to 2015 provided for the renewal of developments in cultural policy until 2020. The Government of the Republic approved the draft Decision 'Principles of Culture Policy until 2020' on 21 November last year. This document contains the principles and priorities for the design and implementation of cultural policy in the following areas: architecture, design, performance arts, film art, sound art, literature and publishing, visual arts, cultural journalism and media, cultural diversity, heritage conservation, museums, libraries and folk culture. In my presentation, I would like to answer the following questions: who prepared the 'Cultural Policy Fundamentals until 2020' draft decision, how much were the public and interested parties involved, what circumstances needed substantial changes, how were the fundamentals described in the document to be implemented and what is the spirit of the fundamentals of cultural policy this time? So who did? The work group coordinated the development of cultural policies. It included representatives of the Estonian Cultural Chamber of the NGO, including members of the Riigikogu Mart Meri and Tiina Lokk, and current editor-in-chief of Sirb Ott Karulin, as well as representatives of the State Chancellery, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Culture. The working group was chaired by Ragnar Siil, then Deputy Chancellor of Arts. The main principles of cultural policy were drawn up by a large number of sectoral organisations as partners of the Ministry and the Steering Group. How much was the public involved? During the preparation of the draft the relevant ministries and sectoral representative organisations were consulted. In total, more than 400 proposals from around 60 authors were received in the course of the consultation process. All consultation materials are publicly available at www.culturalpolicies.ee. This was one of the biggest involvement processes ever in the Ministry of Culture. The Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu was also repeatedly consulted on the drafting of the document, whose proposals have been fully taken into account in the final version. What had to be changed in the fundamentals? A review of the implementation of the previous document drawn up by the Ministry of Culture showed that, although a number of positions are still topical and vital, the situation has changed considerably over the last 15 years. It is therefore necessary to agree on a renewed set of developments that can shape cultural policy over the next seven years. I will bring out some of the most important innovations. The draft fundamentals of the new cultural policy focus significantly on technological development and the opportunities associated with it. For example, one of the cultural policy priorities is the digitisation of our cultural heritage. By making cultural heritage available in digital form, new uses can be created in a number of areas: science, education, entrepreneurship. The state is committed to digitising the 100th anniversary of the Republic of Estonia into a more valuable part of the cultural heritage. You might ask who defines this more valuable part. To this end, sector bodies and best experts will be involved. Much more attention is paid than before to Estonia's participation in international cooperation. I am not exaggerating when I say that culture plays a very important role in the country's external relations. According to this document, the network of cultural representatives will be further expanded in the coming years, cooperation with international organisations will continue and, of course, in the European Union, in shaping policies. Participation in international activities is no longer a privilege for a few sectors. Estonian creative people are involved in one form or another or are themselves the initiators of a wide variety of international cooperation projects. Just for information, Estonia currently has cultural representatives in six countries, as well as a cultural referendum in New York and two foreign representations of the Estonian Institute. More changes. More specifically, the effects of internationalisation and export of culture will be formulated. The internationalisation of culture is an irreversible process, and participation in diverse and diverse forms of global communication is also an inherited part of Estonian culture. However, policies do not mean globalisation, as stated in this document, or the imitation of another cultural or linguistic tradition. It is said that as the world's culture is open, a small culture itself is more viable. The role of culture as an important designer of the state's reputation is noted. If you will allow me to mention, for example, the sums of money devoted to cultural exports have increased considerably in recent years, and this has also started in the year. For example, the Ministry's own budget goes to EUR 1 million to support exports, of which three quarters are divided into open calls for proposals. Of course, cultural capital also plays a very important role in exporting culture. Another issue that has changed significantly since the previous document. More attention will be paid to creative industries and links with other policies. Estonia encourages the development of creative industries as an important part of the knowledge economy, says the explanatory memorandum to the draft decision. Innovation and creativity are seen as a catalyst for competitiveness at both individual and social level. The basic principles state in concrete terms that if people who are active in the cultural field want to carry themselves out through entrepreneurship, they will receive support from the state. It is estimated that the creative industries already account for almost 3% of Estonia's gross domestic product. Overall, it has been estimated that the growth rate of creative industries is faster globally than in other sectors of the economy. When it comes to coherence with other areas, the importance of the creative industries has also been stressed in the Estonian Entrepreneurship Growth Strategy 2014-2020. The next question is how will the fundamentals set out in the document be implemented? The issues set out in the draft act will be the subject of an operational programme in which the activities will be specifically disbanded. These relate to the annual budget strategy, which we know we have 1+3 years, for a total of four years. The objection to the lack of detail of the document should be mitigated by the knowledge that most of the proposals are covered by the general principles. It is also based on the principle that it is quite difficult for the Riigikogu to start writing down all detailed steps to the government. The entirely innovative part of this document is that the Ministry of Culture, i.e. the Minister, is obliged to report every year to the Riigikogu on what has been done, i.e. what has been implemented. What is the spirit of the fundamentals of cultural policy this time? This spirit is best described by the following words: preserving and promoting Estonian national identity, valuing creativity, storing cultural memory, keeping and raising awareness for future generations and, of course, standing up for a vibrant, open and evolving cultural space at all levels. I'll add a few more marginal notes. Although there have been opinions that the draft final document has become shorter than the large number of proposals received in terms of inclusion, the new basic document, which will shape cultural development in the next seven years, will be more comprehensive and detailed than the previous one, and will cover the whole cultural area more evenly. The reader may have questions about the fact that some topics have not been written at all. For example, it is emphasised in the annex to the draft decision that the national cultural policy is based on the constitutional aim of the Republic of Estonia to ensure the preservation of Estonian nationality, language and culture throughout the ages; however, it does not reflect a separate language policy. It should be noted that the country has agreed on the objectives and activities of language policy "Estonian Language Development Plan 2011 Sport as a ministry is also not specifically mentioned. The national development strategy in the field of sport will be developed in cooperation with the Estonian Olympic Committee and developments will be discussed at the Estonian Sports Congress on a regular basis. The Sports Congress is every four years, and the next one is scheduled for November this year, where we will also send a strategy for the development of sport up to 2020. I must say that 'The fundamentals of cultural policy until 2020' was born as a whole before the change of minister. For my part, therefore, I would like to thank all those who have taken part in the preparation of this serious document, from the thinkers, the proposers, the participants in the working group, the sectoral advisors to the Vice-Chancellors, the leaders and Minister Rein Langini. Having studied all the activities and moves of the process, I would also like to express my thanks to the Committee on Culture for its constructive cooperation even before the draft decision reaches the Riigikogu. I would like to congratulate the bill and, of course, I hope you will accept it nicely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U245	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U246	We certainly welcome the President of the Riigikogu! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U247	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U248	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! Indeed, the document is harmonious and thanks to those who prepared it. But some questions have been left out, maybe they're meant as a second step. For example, funding. The basis may be good, the programme may be good, but if funding has not been put in place in just a few words, then the question may arise as to whether the programme can be implemented according to the current scheme. My question is on point 22, which relates to regional policy. How do you see regional cooperation with municipalities and the region in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U249	Thank you for that question. Indeed, when I read point 22 out, the document states that the state will focus its regional cultural organisation more clearly on defining tasks and responsibilities in cooperation with local authorities, local government associations and third sector organisations. Everyone knows that there is a great deal of local authorities in the organisation of local cultural life, but we cannot overlook the fact that, in order to organise cultural life on the ground, the state still allocates money, investment money and there is cultural capital where cultural organisers and creative people can turn to receive project grants. In addition, culture is also supported by the Gambling Council. Of course, there are a number of programmes that the Ministry has funded by sector and will continue to fund projects that come from the people of local governments. True, conditions are different. In general, the direction has been that the culture budget is gradually increasing, which is also, I think, a service of the members of the Riigikogu. There has been no going back after the years of the financial crisis; it is still in the opposite direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U250	Thank you. Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U251	Thank you. Dear Minister, The current editor-in-chief of Sirb Ott Karulin was active in the preparation of the cultural development plan. Before becoming chief editor-in-chief, he has discussed this scheme in more detail in Sirbis, writing, among other things: "The choice of flexible and softer wording is largely due to the lack of cooperation between our ministries in shaping national strategies, and so we constantly bumped into the so-called glass walls in the steering group: cultural policy is closely interlinked with education, regional and economic policies, but the 'Culture 2020' objectives could not be set to the extent to which other ministries would manage, although it should be a national strategy covering all sectors and ministries'. In your short term of office, have you already bounced against these glass walls, and how alone is the Minister of Culture with this strategy in the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U252	Thank you for that question. I'm going to tell you straight that glass walls and ceilings have not been in my way right now, and I'm certainly not alone. I can say that the Government of the Republic approved the draft decision at the end of November, when the ministers had not yet changed. When it comes to horizontal cooperation between ministries, I always think that there will never be a situation where everything is absolutely ideal. You can always do better next time. Let's just say, of course, every ministry has an interest in standing up for its own field, but life itself forces us to cooperate more. I do not see the problem now that cooperation is not possible. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U253	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U254	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, You said that culture is becoming increasingly international. I totally agree with you. Tomorrow, a major international event will be opened in Berlin, Green Week, where food and culture will be represented and Estonia will be presented in a very broad way. Estonia is a partner country there. However, there is no mention of Estonian national food or of Estonian food at all in the document under discussion. This issue is certainly also intended for at least three former ministers of culture in this Chamber. But it is your turn and I ask you: why does culture underestimate or not mark Estonian food culture at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U255	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U256	Thank you very much for a very good question. I can't answer for the others, but I'd defend the situation a little bit. In fact, food is part of the heritage culture and the heritage culture is certainly protected by this document.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U257	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister of Culture, A lot of strength for you in this new challenge! I come to one not intrigue, but to a rather painful debate about the development of a document on cultural policy. This concerns point 3, the landscape of higher education in the fields of culture and art. Today, the wording has become quite soft, beautiful and round. Perhaps the only fact from the past is the sentence that says that the state is setting out a network of schools providing higher education in the field of culture and art with the aim of making the best use of existing opportunities and ensuring the quality and sustainability of higher education. Does the new minister have a different opinion on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U258	Thank you for that question. I am certainly in favour of making the best use of existing opportunities and ensuring the quality of higher education. I know from the history of the preparation of this document that one of the debates concerned higher education in the field of architecture, more specifically how to give it in Estonia, where, how much and in which universities. The second was the Academy of Fine Arts. I must say again that this document is, however, a framework document. Here, as you can see, no Estonian cultural institutions, no cultural institutions have been specifically mentioned, and that is the rule. If we had brought in two or three colleges of higher education, it is certain that the document would have become much, much larger, which is not a bad thing in itself. However, in the long term, the lack of generalisation could have become a constraint. As former Minister of Education, I think you share this view that it is good to leave such more detailed decisions to professionals in the perspective of seven years. We can't say we put our hand on if the universities want to train. I also know the opinion of people in the field of architecture on how higher education in architecture should be organised. Just today we met representatives of the Association of Estonian Architects and discussed this topic. I understand that the Committee on Culture has also accepted this wording. I think it is a good wording from a seven-year perspective.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U259	Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U260	Thank you. Madam Minister! We will discuss with you for the first time since you took up a new post. So I have reason and even the need to welcome you and wish you luck! Now to cultural policy. Personally, I don't like all kinds of declarative, unspecific documents. The fundamentals of cultural policy, as they are now, even through the explanatory memorandum, give a rather vague idea of what this policy is. I look at paragraph 32.1 of the explanatory memorandum, I don't have time to quote the point itself. The explanatory memorandum states that the creation of a common cultural space is important because it is based on common fundamental values and the appreciation of a common heritage. Can you, from the point of view of this document, specify what these common basic values and common heritage are?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U261	Thank you for your question. Common values and a common heritage.. this is a very thorough issue. I think it is the common values that bind people at all. In the light of this document, I would say that it is the preservation of culture, the recognition of other cultures, the recognition of differences in the cultural sphere and the evaluation of its diversity. In my opinion, however, this is clearly visible here, and it is important for the harmonious promotion of the cultural space. If it sounds very general, then maybe after I think about it, I'll be able to clarify it. Yesterday I had an excellent opportunity to meet representatives of national minorities living in Estonia. The Ministry of Culture has traditionally hosted these people. I have to say, there was this part of us that we shared. People want them, their culture, customs and traditions to be recognised and valued as they are. This is what the Estonian state does. So that's the answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U262	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U263	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, It is a pleasure to ask you a question and it is a pleasure to wish you success in this job. My question also concerns cultural diversity. There are, in fact, a number of points here that say that it is necessary to encourage and support the preservation of the culture of ethnic minorities. At the same time, there is no such term as 'national minority' in Estonian law anywhere; there is a 'national minority' everywhere. Question number 1 is whether it is the same. If it is the same, then the minority is understood in Estonian law as it is under the law of cultural autonomy, i.e. the Russians are not among them. My question is, what does this term legally mean here?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U264	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U265	Thank you for your question. That is indeed a legally quite precise question. I'll get it. There are, of course, over a hundred national minorities in Estonia, some of which are more numerous, some of which are represented in a smaller number. It is clear that these are people whose roots are either in other countries and in the cultural space, or they have come here later, and Estonian is not their native language. That's how I see it. On the exact definitions, I owe you an answer, but I'll deal with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U266	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister! I wish you every success in your new job. I'm interested in sports. You said that documents in the field of sport are dealt with by the Estonian Olympic Committee and the Estonian Sports Congress. Is there any way that these documents will reach this Riigikogu Hall, can we get to know them?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U267	I suppose there's still a way to get acquainted. There are no processes in the field of sport that should remain unknown to the public.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U268	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U269	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! Maybe I'm in a hurry, but once the path is chosen, I'm used to walking it step by step. That is why I have a second step question. How do you see an app? If you come back to point 22, what must you do after we have adopted these fundamentals, for example, by municipalities? Do they have to develop a document of how this document is called, are they proposals, is it a plan, or is it a strategy? The development plans they do for four years, for the period prescribed by law, you know that very well. What form is the second step?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U270	After all, local governments and the state are not opposite phenomena, they are partners, they are part of the same country, they represent the same people. From time to time I hear such a comment that municipalities and the state that wallets are separate etc. Just as the responsibilities of local governments have been specified on a number of issues, it is likely that the development of culture will require one such process of mutual understanding or the formulation of positions. What does it look like? I look at Minister Lang, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm a member of the Riigikogu, I'm trying to read from his eyes and I'm wondering exactly how it's going to turn out. But it is also mentioned in this document on cultural policy that the implementation of the objectives, the way in which activities are distributed more rationally and effectively, depends in some ways on the progress of administrative reform. Let's just say there are no monochrome solutions. I also think that the key statement here is that the state considers it important to formulate a vision, in cooperation with the local governments, of the role and development opportunities of the cultural institutions within the competence of the local government in the future, including the future vision of public libraries and community houses, which is now entirely the responsibility of the local government. That's how I'm gonna answer you right now. I hope that I may be able to give you a much more concrete answer on this issue in the autumn when there is a report.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U271	Please, Esther Tuiksoo, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U272	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister! The previous document on the fundamentals of cultural policy is dated 16 September 1998. Have you been given an overview of what has been the greatest achievements and strongest benefits of this document?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U273	It's a two-page document, quite specific and short. Greater achievements relate to the constitutional role of the Estonian state in protecting and maintaining culture, it continues and there are no changes here. This document certainly has a role to play in ensuring that creative people and creative associations have been consistently supported through both the budgetary funding of culture and cultural capital. The system created at the beginning of Estonia's independence has been considered important, where it has been recognised that creative people need additional support in Estonia as a relatively small cultural space, and this system has worked well. There's a lot of nuances. I am a little sorry that I did not prepare for this report in greater depth, but I am absolutely certain that the Chairman of the Committee on Culture, Urmas Klaas, will somehow sum it up.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U274	Thank you. Please, Juku-Kalle Raid!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U275	Thank you. Minister Urve, and, as I have learned, Minister Rein! It's a great document, but there's something that worries me. For many years, one such cultural phenomenon, such as the natural sanctuarys of Estonia, has been sidelined by such papers. How could such things be found in such a document between several areas? On the one hand, it is like a phenomenon in the field of heritage conservation. The heritageists are not very concerned with them, quite rightly claiming that they are not man - made. On the other hand, it is not just an environmental issue, nor is it just a culture of heritage or tradition, as there are still natural places. All of this has led to the stupid fact that the maintenance and even cadastral entry and protection of natural shrines are chronically underfunded. Can you tell me where I can find this cross-cutting thing in this document?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U276	Thanks for asking. I remember the meeting at the end of last year, quite at the beginning of my term of office, with the people of the Association of Protectors of Natural Sanctuaries. They introduced me to this whole topic. It is also known that some of the natural places of worship are already protected in Estonia. The fact is that their mapping is ongoing, there are a lot of them. Everyone here may not know this subject, it is all kinds of cult objects in nature, trees, stones and many other things that the people of this community are looking for. They collect traditional stories from people and have already marked them out in nature. The subject of the debate was indeed how to regulate the protection of all of them. Currently, there is a single amount in the budget of the Estonian Ministry of Culture, which is not very large, which these so-called inventoryers can use to find and map holiday objects. If I begin to examine the explanatory statement now, I will spend a great deal of your time, honourable Members of the Riigikogu. May I reply in writing, dear Juku-Kalle Raid? [[Juku-Kalle Raid says yes to the floor.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U277	Please, Mailis Reps, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U278	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. A number of issues have been discussed in depth and summaries have been formulated in an annex to the draft decision. One of the important issues is reflected in point 28.6 where the integrity of music education has been discussed and the need for state support has been stressed. The following sentence states that it covers both basic, basic, secondary and higher education. Can it be said from this point 28.6 that the state will also provide financial support in matters relating to music education and the network of music schools?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U279	Please, Urbo Vaarmann!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U280	Thanks again for the question. As has been said, these developments will in principle also affect financing decisions over the next seven years. At what time and to what extent the Estonian state is able to support music schools or create music competence centres, this is the subject of the state budget strategy and, in some ways, the subject of sectoral development plans. It is not reasonable to say a very specific year number and amount of money at the moment, and I am also concerned with the information.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U281	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I'm going to a wider sport. In two and a half months, as long as I have been in the Riigikogu, none of the sports-related things have reached the Commission. During your leadership, can it be expected that the sports party will also be dealt with and that things on sport will reach the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U282	Please, Juku-Kalle Raid, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U283	Thanks for asking. I'm not gonna start texting around here, but I'm pretty sure that's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U284	Thanks! I am pleased to note that literature and publishing are quite well addressed in this document. All sorts of things could be done for the development of Estonian literature. I'm asking for your personal opinion. Do you not believe that if books are to be purchased and read for the purpose of raising people, it might be wise to reduce the value added tax on books again, at least on the books of Estonian authors?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U285	Thank you very much for your question. Indeed, the price is one argument when making a purchase, but not the only one. Of course, no generalisation can be made, but there is a theoretical possibility that with a reduction in VAT, the book price in the store may not fall very much. As you very well know, the more important thing to attract children to books is that children are raised to be books very early. One of the ways to attract today's young generation to fiction is to make the book technologically attractive, or give birth to digital books. In Estonia, I think more than one and a half hundred Estonian literary classic books are coming together now, which have been digitized, and the process continues, and more money is put in there. While my generation prefers to read books written on covers and paper, which can be taken anywhere with digital books in the same way, the younger generation is increasingly on top of electronic technology, and these works of digitalized literature classics are certainly one way to get young people to read more fiction. When you ask for a personal opinion, you have to jerk off your child early or start reading with him, and you want to read books that leave your child with such an unfailing memory that he later feels that reading hunger all the time. I don't think that's gonna happen to everyone, but it happens to a lot of people.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U286	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U287	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Minister, thank you very much. In recent years, when the previous fundamentals of cultural policy were in force, one Estonian city, the capital, became the capital of Tallinn's cultural capital. When you put together this new plan and discussed the fundamentals until 2020, did you also discuss whether another city in Estonia, such as Tartu or Kuressaare, could be awarded the title of the Capital of Culture?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U288	Thank you for this question. Unfortunately, as I said at the end of the presentation, I was not happy to be present in the preparation of this draft decision. Therefore, since I have not read all the protocols, there are quite a few of them, I am now indebted to the answer, where the Capital of Culture could still be located in Estonia. Since this is one of the titles that is very passionately claimed in Europe, it is feared that there will be no shortage of candidates. But being an optimistic person, I say why never again.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U289	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U290	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! I am delighted by the point 29.4 on page 9, which states that the state must create prerequisites for the increase in the number of e-books, etc. Could you open up a little bit of how the state should support it? I understand that if the state buys some kind of copyright, the book will be accessible without restriction and free of charge. But we are not just talking about authors and only books that are subject to copyright. There are also literary criticisms and literary classics where copyrights no longer apply. What are the plans more specifically? Do you already have them, or are they just good will? At present, however, the electronic Estonian-language literature base is not significant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U291	The principle is that Estonia respects copyright, and this also applies to digital books. As I said earlier, the Estonian Mother Language Society has a teacher's list of works of Estonian fiction classics, for which copyright time limits have expired. These books are digitized. But I repeat, copyrights are important and, of course, other books can be digitised when agreements are reached. Today, for example, 2% of readers in the Tallinn Central Library borrow digital books, and this number has grown little over the last two years, but it has increased still. It is quite certain that this percentage will increase for both library readers and bookstore buyers, and demand for digital works will increase. There will certainly be work to expand this option, of course the publishers are also interested in it. All kinds of technological innovations force companies in the publishing industry to look for solutions to solve copyright issues when publishing a book. It's perfectly understandable.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U292	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Culture Urve Tiidus! I would like to ask for a co-presentation by the Chair of the Committee on Culture, Urmas Klaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U293	Madam Vice-Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. The Committee on Culture has had a pleasant opportunity to discuss the draft of the Riigikogu decision 'Cultural Policy Fundamentals until 2020', as well as these fundamentals themselves. Our committee has the word 'culture' and we are called the Committee on Culture, but the lion's share of our work and topics is related to education. It has been more pleasant to deal with the fundamentals of cultural policy until 2020. It has to be said that the document began to be drawn up a long time ago. As early as 2011, the Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of Culture informed me that such a document was being drafted. Several members of the Committee on Culture have also been involved in developing fundamentals, not as members of the Commission, but as active smart people in several organisations. I congratulate the former Minister for Culture, Rein Lang, with whom we have dealt on several occasions with the document on the fundamentals. On 8 October last year, the fundamentals were presented to the whole Committee on Culture for the first time. We agreed that our committee would make proposals to amend the document, that the Ministry would take them into account if possible, and that it would submit a document to the Government of the Republic for approval, which had already taken the proposals of the Committee on Culture into account. That's what happened. Our most important proposals have indeed been taken into account and thanks to Rein Lang for that. On 16 December, a meeting of the Committee on Culture took place in which we took the following decisions: to appoint a rapporteur here, to propose a draft decision on the agenda of the plenary session on 15 January, to propose that the first reading be closed and to set the deadline for amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 29 January. All proposals were made by consensus within the Commission. Now, in a few words, what the Committee on Culture considered important to be emphasised or formulated differently in the fundamentals of cultural policy. Firstly, we proposed that Chapter II 'The aim of cultural policy' be formulated in such a way that, in addition to shaping a society that values the creativity of cultural policy, it must also preserve and promote the national identity of Estonia, explore, store and carry on the cultural memory. We wanted to formulate the objective in a broader and more forward-looking way. An important topic for us was Chapter III 'Principles for the formulation and implementation of cultural policy'. In formulating point 2, we considered it important, on the basis of the profile of our committee, that recreational education and activities be organised in cooperation between the state and local authorities so that, indeed, cultural knowledge is available, skills are acquired and everyone has the opportunity to participate actively in cultural life. More broadly, this relates to what colleagues have asked about, i.e. combining different ministries and areas of life into a whole in the context of the document on the fundamentals of cultural policy. Unfortunately, we are sadly seeing a lot of each ministry working in its own well, there should be more cross-ministerial cooperation. It's written here with the Ministry of Education in mind. Point 3 refers to higher education in the field of culture. Colleagues raised the question of whether it must be so precisely and quite rigidly worded that educational institutions operating in one region must be consolidated into a single whole. We found that this was not justified and that part of the sentence was taken out on our proposal. The wording remains that the state will direct the organisation of a network of higher education institutions providing higher education in the field of culture and art. They should certainly cooperate more closely too. In the Commission, we also discussed raising the qualifications of cultural workers and continuing training. It should be emphasised in particular that since the information society also requires continuous innovation in the work of cultural workers, their further training and upgrading must be more clearly worded. I will also bring out a series of topics such as 'Libraries', item 35.4. The Committee on Culture considers it necessary to stress the importance of public libraries and that there should be greater encouragement for inter-religious activities that cross the borders of one local government, so that the network of these libraries can also be more effective in their actions. The Committee on Culture stressed that it is very important in the future that all ministries take into account the fundamentals of cultural policy when drawing up the state budget and the state budget strategy. Both the Ministry of Culture and other ministries should view the fundamentals as a truly guiding document and cooperation between ministries should support its implementation. We stressed that once a year the Minister must present the Riigikogu with an overview of the implementation of the fundamental principles of cultural policy. This requires, of course, proper preparation and involvement of relevant partners in the preparation of the report. One of the subjects discussed was sport. Some members of the Commission were not satisfied that sport was not included in the document. Finally, we agreed that the topic of sport will be reflected in a separate development plan and will be summarised at the Estonian Sports Congress. My colleague Lauri Luik informed us that the sports support group of the Riigikogu is keeping an eye on the subject and is effectively involved in the field of sport. This was the course of the debate in the Committee on Culture, which was briefly put together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U294	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U295	Dear waitress, Today there was an interesting discussion in this hall about the basic law of the state budget, which states that the development plan of the field will be approved by the Government of the Republic, subject to the law, and the development plan of the field will be submitted to the Riigikogu before its approval. Here we are discussing the development plan in this area and the interest seems to be lukewarm, to say the least. What do you think the content should be in the discussion of the development plan in this Parliament? Would it not, however, be more appropriate for Parliament, on a proposal from the Government of the Republic, to approve this development plan on the basis of a document submitted by the Government, but in such a way that, in the course of the proceedings, the government would make amendments to this recommendation by Parliament? In this way, Parliament would indeed have a leading and leading role at least in shaping important policies in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U296	This issue was discussed in the Committee on Culture. If I recall, we too have moved in the direction that such documents on the fundamentals of politics could receive more attention from Parliament. It is true that all sectoral development plans initiated by the executive power, for which it is responsible and which are sometimes rather narrow should be approved by Parliament, I do not think. But documents such as the fundamentals of security policy and the fundamentals of cultural policy could attract more attention in this Chamber. It is all the more welcome that we have been able to make an effective contribution to this issue in the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U297	Thank you very much. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Liisa-Ly Pakosta! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U298	Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin by saying that in the Committee on Culture, all the parties represented in the committee were very much in agreement during these discussions. But when we look at the public debate, it's going to be like a hard-on. Speaking as the representative of the IRL, I am trying to keep the line that could be our goal in culture, education and other areas of great concern. It is that our groups, too, openly, not only behind closed commissions, sometimes share a common view. On behalf of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, I would like to thank the Ministry of Culture and Minister Rein Lang, because indeed we felt that the Committee on Culture was involved in this process. We were free to debate, freely to make proposals, and these proposals were ultimately either taken into account or at least listened to. There is no way to agree with the opposition's criticism, as if the debate on cultural policy had been hindered. There is also a more general call that, if it is really the case that there has been a completely free-form debate and some results are being achieved, then you should not blame it on the fact that it was not quite formally the case when it was in essence. I would, of course, like today to wish the strength of all the manufacturers of these operational programmes. Our expectations of these operational programmes are very high. We intend to closely monitor the preparation and execution of each operational programme by carrying out actual operations and allocating funds from the budget. We certainly expect exciting discussions here in the Riigikogu from both the creators of culture and consumers. In a large number of cases, they coincide. The annual debate on the foundations of cultural policy in the Riigikogu hall will hopefully provide a good addition to the cultural topics that will be discussed in this Chamber anyway. If you dream about something and give us a note that we think might happen in Estonian culture, then this is definitely the progress of the Estonian thing. I agree with both Ott Karulin and others who, in this Chamber, have noted the blurry cooperation between ministries or even the lack of cooperation in certain areas. The first thing could be to replace cultural differences by cooperation. Our dreams also largely concern a culture of leisure that has not been fully understood in this document. In general, it is known that in Estonia the Ministry of Culture deals with professional culture and local governments are engaged in recreational culture. Perhaps the state could provide guidance to local authorities on how to move forward with recreational culture. There are no such tips in the current country's cultural policy, but this is certainly one area where the Fatherland and Res Publica Union believe that things should move forward. I'll show you a little bit. The environment of recreational culture has recently changed both in practical life and in thought patterns. If it was some time ago that when Anne, Sirje and Poetry had the idea of making a nice little female ensemble, all they had to do was turn to the principal of the local school and get them a classroom to practice. If they're going to talk like that today, the principal of the school will be forced to lay his hands around and talk about the school's own revenue plan. Plus, the house is under guard, and who's gonna open the door? If that person is found, he wants pay for overtime. All of this has become very formal. Poetry, Sirje and Anne don't want to piss off their men at home or piss off their neighbors. The whole issue of folk culture should be freshly looked at. Perhaps there is something that we can recommend, perhaps change, in the current changed environment, by the state, maybe contribute. It would be nice if we could be sure that our children, grandchildren and all the next generations can just as easily and naturally carry on with Estonia, as previous generations have done at those times, when no one asked for a return plan for singing in a trenches or under-tire. Let's hope that happens. For our part, we are ready to contribute. If the Ministry of Culture also wishes to continue constructive cooperation in the field of interest education, then of course the Fatherland and Res Publica Association are very interested in this topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U299	Thank you very much. Please, Jack Allik! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U300	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, a few who are interested in culture. Madam Minister, who perhaps looks at and listens to us somewhere! It is a great pity that a good new and old colleague, Lauri Vahtre, has left the hall, whom I would like to thank and welcome and with whom we have common memories since 1998. Then we worked together, as a representative of the government and as a representative of his Committee on Culture, for more than half a year on the fundamentals of Estonian cultural policy, which will immediately end their validity. This document, which was adopted at the time and which lasted for 15 years, was quite much clarified and improved in Parliament as a result of the very pleasant and fruitful cooperation between the government coalition and the opposition. This led to the unanimous adoption of the document and has ensured that these fundamentals have largely been a permanent benchmark for the cultural policy of different governments. As a result, our cultural policy has remained much more stable than, for example, education policy. Looking at this old document, I was looking at the point that the Riigikogu just added there. Let me quote this: 'The state recognises and supports the activities of the Estonian Evangelical Lutheran Church and other religious organizations registered by us in creating the ethical atmosphere necessary for the normal functioning of society and sees the church as an important partner in cultural activities. ' I am sorry that this does not make any sense in the document that has been submitted to us today, and it is all the more a pity that we do not have the opportunity to include it in the debate in Parliament, as we did 15 years ago. For me, the biggest problem, both with today and with other acts which are basically guiding national policies, is that Parliament has only reduced the role of a silent handlifter. It would certainly be worthwhile for many colleagues to add improvements to the document on cultural policy, both in terms of their professional and community experience. This would also lead to a consensual nature of the scheme and would provide it with at least the same life span as was adopted in 1998. I believe that one of the most important tasks for the majority of the future Parliament should be to restore Parliament's authority and role in shaping and guiding important national policies. Many creative associations, centrally and cultural institutions took part in the drafting of the document presented to us in one form or another. As we know, there were over 400 proposals and over 60 performers. The final text was completed as a joint work by the Ministry of Culture and the Estonian Chamber of Culture, and certainly the authors, including our ladies and gentlemen Tiina Lokk and Mart Meri, are well worth thanking. I would like to congratulate the former Minister of Culture, Rein Lang, who took the initiative of making this document and who kept in constant contact with the Committee on Culture in the course of his work, so that at least in this way some of the views of the members of the Riigikogu have reached the document. The new fundamentals set out 23 general principles and 73 priorities for 13 cultural areas. It is likely that this document, like the previous one, will be criticised for being generic and will lead to a lack of real cultural policy. In the last, 28th edition of our own Riigikogu Working Papers, Karina Talts and Peeter Laurits describe the fundamentals as a description of the current situation, which is difficult to find serious plans for the future. In their view, there is no cultural policy in this document. I do not agree with such harsh criticism. In 1998 we developed a national cultural policy based on the objective of clearly defining the responsibility of the Estonian state, the central government, for the preservation and development of our national culture. We have come to the point that, in the responsibility of the state, the object of national cultural policy is to provide financial support for cultural creation and cultural resources in order to guarantee freedom of creation, to provide the most appropriate legal space and to organise professional cultural education. The focus on delineating the tasks of the central government has also remained valid in the new document and therefore no radical change in the new fundamentals of cultural policy will come with it. The most positive innovation may indeed be the requirement in the Riigikogu's decision that the Minister of Culture should present to Parliament once a year a report on the implementation of the fundamentals of cultural policy. If it were to shape the tradition that the future annual report of the Minister of Culture before Parliament would be preceded by a public screening of specific problems in the field, both in the press and in the creative federations, a new version of the fundamentals could be useful. And, of course, Parliament's rules of procedure should be supplemented so that such hearings of the government's reports are not just left to move the warm air, but also followed by a specific decision by which Parliament will assign the task and the signs to the government for next year. The point is that there is no budget cover for many nice thoughts and pious wishes, which are now listed in front of us as 73 priorities. I will give you two examples. The fundamentals repeat the objective already established in 1998 that the minimum remuneration of cultural workers and accredited professionals with higher education should be at the level of the average wage in Estonia. This will not be achieved in 2014, as has been the case so far. Another example is the positive point 27.3 of all film lovers, where we read that the state, in cooperation with local authorities and private operators, is creating opportunities for digital display of films in theatres and cultural centres located in larger county centres. Unfortunately, there is not a single cent in the 2014 budget for this purpose. That is why listening to the report of the Minister of Culture in Parliament before the end of the budgetary procedure for next year is essential. This would allow the Riigikogu to look itself in the face once a year and ask whether it is really desirable to do something so that the decisions it has made can be met. Which priorities, however, are relevant in the year, depends of course on the specific Minister of Culture and the Ministry's senior officials. Unfortunately, almost all the company that developed the main positions presented to us today at the Ministry of Culture has already left this building, the Minister, the two Vice Chancellors and the Head of the Development Department. I wish the new Minister for Culture, Mrs Urve Tiidus, the strength to fight for these priorities and the wisdom to determine the ranking of their importance. On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I confirm our support for the draft decision under discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U301	Thank you. I now ask Rein Lang, representative of the Estonian Reform Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair of Speech!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U302	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. In the opinion of the Reform Party, this is, of course, a very good draft. However, this draft must indeed bear in mind the fact which has been referred to here today and which was particularly substantive in Jaak Allik. Nail polish can only be inserted into the Riigikogu four points, i.e. essentially four sentences. I do not share the criticism that the organisation of things so far is fundamentally bad if the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu, whose domain this material is, was involved in this activity from the beginning. In fact, the perceptions of the members of the Riigikogu, the perceptions of the political groups of the Riigikogu and the perceptions of political parties, not only those of political parties represented in the Riigikogu, but also those of other political parties, are reflected in this document. It is quite natural that not all the proposals could be taken into account when putting together this document. They were counted as much as possible. In my opinion, without any irony, the best part of this draft decision is point 2: proposing to the Government of the Republic to present a presentation to the Riigikogu by 1 November of each year at the latest on the implementation of the fundamental principles of cultural policy. I remind you that similar decisions have been made with developments in criminal policy, security policy and justice policy, and at least with developments in criminal policy, this is an unprecedented success story in Estonia. Its treatment once a year has given the government the assurance that the right path was chosen in 1997. We see that crime in Estonia is decreasing, so the choices made have basically been correct. The annual debate on the foundations of criminal policy has been very constructive. According to the Reform Party, it is very nice that cultural policy is now joining this line, which will be discussed in the Riigikogu once a year. So we put him on the same stick as justice policy, criminal policy and security policy, which in the eyes of ordinary media consumers has always been much sexier than discussing cultural issues. So this is very positive and I hope that the Riigikogu will approve this decision in exactly the form it has come from the government. Unfortunately, we have the right number of development plans and strategies of every kind, much of which has passed through parliamentary reading in some way and has been passionately accepted, but many of them have been forgotten on the shelf after passion has subsided. If there is anything to blame for the fundamentals of cultural policy adopted in 1998, it is precisely that they were not discussed at Parliament's level once a year. I do not join Jaak Allik in observing that the next elected Riigikogu must raise Parliament's authority to the right level. In my opinion, Estonia's parliamentaryism is fine. Rather, much depends on whether our level of culture allows the Riigikogu to improve its reputation in the public eye a little, or whether we try to hoist ourselves with all kinds of tricks before the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U303	Please ask for a speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Estonian Centre Party Group Mailis Repsi!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U304	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Minister, thank you very much. The three groups have already given their concluding opinion. The Centre Party Group also discussed the fundamentals of cultural policy in the form it was originally presented to the Committee on Culture. At that moment, Minister Rain Lang handed over a medium or almost finished version, and we were able to gather, during the meeting of the Committee on Culture, the ideas of the political group's associates and of our partners and acquaintances about the clarifications and other changes that could be made in the document. We have had the opportunity to familiarise ourselves with the views of the various interest groups, as many have been able to say their views in the diplomatic formulation of this very comprehensive and at the same time quite general document. The only criticism was that an institution could not find its name there. One or the other Estonian person would have wanted his or her institution to be insured for the next ten years, mentioned in history. Maybe bring a very clear wish. On the one hand, it guarantees, like a guarantee, that a particular institution or person will continue to be valued, but on the other hand, in negotiations with the Government of the Republic, it gives the right to ask for additional resources at the level of the Riigikogu or the Minister. It is a good thing that the University's great concern was that the Academy of Music and the Academy of Arts wanted to join the University of Tallinn. The document states that cooperation needs to be strengthened as necessary in a ten-year perspective. The rectors of the universities made it very clear that the content of the document satisfies them, perhaps they would like to formulate more precisely the formulation of one area or another. More specifically, however, more precise promises are expected to be made to allocate additional amounts. To sum up this brief speech, we could say that our group is very pleased with the practice that is developing. Hopefully, this will continue by coordinating documents in other areas. It is very important that, before we make a fundamental decision whether or not to approve, there has been a substantive debate in the Committee on Industry, during which changes have also been possible. I very much hope that this practice will continue in the debate on other sectoral documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-15_U305	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading of draft 553 should be terminated. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 553 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 29 January. The first reading is closed and the eighth item is also closed. Good fellows, our hearing today is over. I thank you and wish you the strength of your work! Closure of the sitting at 6.36 p.m.
