ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U1	Prime Minister and ministers! Honourable Riigikogu! Let's start the briefing. First, we'll do a presence check. 38 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, 63 are missing. In our briefing today, Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of the Environment Keit Pentus-Rosimannus and Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts will attend.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U2	Let's get to the questions. The first questioner is Kadri Simson. The question will be addressed to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, on the situation of Estonian Air. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U3	Mr Parts, thank you very much. I know that you are currently fulfilling the Minister's duties in the last few moments, and some of my colleagues here have previously expressed a misunderstanding as to why I am asking you anything at all. However, I ask about Estonian Air because the difficult situation of the company got more public attention once the Secretary-General of the Reform Party announced that on 21 February, after the candidate for the new Prime Minister, the question of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, was also discussed in the political party's Bureau, as Estonian Air was threatened with bankruptcy. So it can be said that in some ways it also became the incentive for a change of government partner. What do you think is the situation with Estonian Air now?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U4	Thank you for that question. First of all, I take this opportunity to thank the honourable Riigikogu for its cooperation. I hope to continue with you in a few moments. Estonian Air's current situation has been commented by the company's management board. In short, it can be said that the company is operationally positive. The new government must certainly continue to work in this direction so that Estonian Air can be sustainable for a long time. It's a difficult task. The European aviation market is undergoing constant changes. Cheap airlines become more traditional airlines and more traditional airlines become more low cost airlines. Estonia's position is somewhat different from that of the countries in the centre of Europe. We have few residents, so we have a small home market. However, we in the government have based ourselves on the fact that high-quality air connections are quite difficult to achieve without a home-based airline. We know that high-quality air services are an important part of our country's competitiveness and I hope that the new government will also act with the aim of achieving the long-term sustainability of the company. This is also a basic prerequisite for the European Commission to accept the rescue loan granted by the Estonian Government in the state aid permit procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U5	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson, the first question to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U6	Thank you. Mr Parts, thank you very much. I will continue to ask my second question where you left off answering the first question. The situation of Estonian Air certainly depends to a large extent on the European Commission's decision on Estonia's state aid to the airline. Your successor, Mrs Urve Palo, has said that it is very likely that the European Commission will not grant a State aid permit and that, as a result, our airline could go bankrupt. You are certainly better informed about the state aid authorisation procedure. Our neighbouring airlines have received State aid. How big do you think the possibility of a green light being shown to Estonia to grant state aid?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U7	What is the European Commission's so-called State aid authorisation procedure? It's not a one-sided decision. The procedure for authorising State aid consists primarily of negotiations between the state concerned by the company, in this case the Republic of Estonia and the European Commission, in order to assess the economic situation of the company in the future. It's a central task. These negotiations have taken place. I myself have met several times with the Commissioner for Competition, and he has also been met by other people in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and company leaders. This work, of course, must also be continued by the new government. It is quite obvious that the new government must clearly express the belief that the airline will be able to cope in the aviation market for a longer period of time. In my opinion, the procedure for authorising State aid is also in the analysis, i.e. the investigation phase, of previous decisions. There have been four cases that have been investigated in different ways by the European Commission over the last five years. Two cases have already been taken off the agenda and, in the case of two previous proceedings, the key question has been whether the government or the state has acted on the market investor principle. As far as our application for a State aid authorisation is concerned, we have argued it well enough together with our consultants. We are convinced that yes, we have acted on the market investor principle. In previous proceedings, a positive or a negative decision has depended very much on the prospect of the future. The future outlook in turn depends on what it is doing now and, of course, on the wishes of the owners. I would point out that Estonian Air still has two owners, two shareholders.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U8	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson, the second point to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U9	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. In the beginning of March, the government confirmed the 2012 consolidated report of the state companies, which shows that Estonian Air is the only state-owned company that has been assessed as "unsatisfactory'. This is a clear assessment of the work of Estonian Air's previous leader, Tero Taskila. How should the state change the recruitment of top managers of state-owned enterprises so that such mistakes do not happen again in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U10	Thank you. Now three issues registered on the spot. Please, Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U11	As regards the wider governance of the state's companies, you know that my proposal has been similar to that of the Erkki Raasukes working group. In short, the State should act as a normal private owner: companies operating in market conditions should be managed on a professional level, keeping them in a single portfolio. The current governance regime, such as that which we have under the State Property Act, is not only a question of whether a member of the Riigikogu belongs to the Council or not, is actually out of date. This was justified in the 1990s. If we look at the OECD's best practice, the state's stakes, above all, in companies that actually operate in market conditions, are in the hands of the State a little more than ten and should be managed professionally in a single portfolio. The Reform Party has said that this means a great deal of bureaucracy and so on. On the contrary, it would actually make corporate governance considerably more professional. Of course, sufficient control of the owner, the government and the Riigikogu, should be guaranteed. This is a key issue of governance. However, as far as the appointment of the CEO is concerned, it is of course the case that all companies operating in the market must take account of the reality of the labour market.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U12	Thank you. Dear Minister, I dare say that Estonian Air's involvement is one of the best examples of your time as a minister of how the owner should not run the company. There's been a lot of mismanagement. The design of the fleet has been very dimming, the choice of destinations, etc. Now that you drop your job now, I would like to know from you whether you dare today and can say that management has made serious mistakes. Secondly, should the members of the board be liable under the Commercial Code?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U13	I'll start at the back. The members of the board are responsible as required by the Commercial Code. If decisions have been taken that have caused damage to the company and they have been made with insufficient diligence, the members of the supervisory board shall be liable for such damage. If you come back to Estonian Air, I think the key decision was taken by the previous Andrus Ansip government in 2009. Until then, the Estonian state owned a minority shareholding in the company and essentially the state did not participate in the management of the company. In 2009, a situation arose where new aircraft had been selected by private shareholders at the time. 67% of the owners had paid upfront, and they were unable to move on from this position. We were faced with the choice of whether we would not save this company and go the Lithuanian way or link Estonian Air to Estonia's competitiveness and important infrastructure for the country. We went another way. I think this decision was basically the right one, no matter what developments we can design for the future. This decision was particularly important for us because in 2009 we were faced with the conditions of the economic crisis. In the near future, an additional analysis by Maris Lauri's working group on behalf of AS Tallinn Airport should be prepared, which means one air passenger from a so-called macroeconomic perspective to the Estonian economy. One air passenger brings an average of EUR 280 to the country. Now, if you think about this growth plan, which has been very much criticised and, in part, for a reason, the number of passengers actually increased by 400000. 400000 additional passengers! Multiply it with EUR 280, and you will see that we are still talking about a very large amount of aid for economic growth.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U14	Thank you very much. Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U15	Thank you. Dear Minister, Do you consider it appropriate to confirm in autumn 2011 the business plan submitted to you by Estonian Air's leader, Tero Taskila, which resulted in record losses of EUR 100000 on a few days?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U16	Once again: if we look at the macroeconomic picture, this plan was one view and the other view is the actual loss of the company. Yeah, the company put this plan into practice by making certain mistakes. It requires a separate discourse. I think that the company board at the time, which included many respected Estonian entrepreneurs and also the Prime Minister's economic advisor, did his work very carefully. We still know how to be smart after all. But I say to the next government that when we talk about the long-term sustainability of Estonian Air, the question remains how a small airline would always find its niche in a very fast-paced European aviation market. This is something that the new government has to deal with all the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U17	Thank you. Please, Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U18	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Parts! There are two kinds of information circulating in the public about the money that the Estonian state has placed in Estonian Air. They're talking 70 million and 80 million. Which number is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U19	Neither one is right.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U20	Thank you. The first issue is therefore exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U21	Let's go to the next question. Kaia Iva asks the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts a question about the Ministry's areas of work. Please, Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U22	Thank you. First of all, I take this opportunity to thank the Prime Minister and the entire government for their contribution to the past years, when I think that the Estonian state has been run very cooperatively and responsibly through the most difficult years. I would also like to thank our good cooperation partner, on behalf of the IRL Group, the Reform Party Group, and especially the two people with whom work had to be organised every day. This is Remo and Jaanus. Now the question. A good Minister for Economic Affairs, which were the last few years that you can say that these were the most necessary work and perhaps the greatest successes?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U23	Thank you for your question. I believe that the main task of the Minister for Economic Affairs is to think through everything from the point of view of the welfare and income growth of the Estonian people. Any area from entrepreneurship, innovation, our external relations, energy, transport, IT, housing, construction and telecommunications to the European Union must still be developed with the aim that the Estonian economy grows in such a way that the income of Estonian people also grows. Given what we have achieved in seven years, I dare say that our hopes were a little higher in 2007, but our hopes were curtailed by a very deep economic crisis. But I am pleased that we were able to get Estonia out of the crisis in such a way that now the fundamentals of the economy are of a quality that I mean not only the macro-economic environment, but also what our companies are much better. The structure of entrepreneurship is also much better today than just before the crisis. It can be stated in concrete terms that our people's entrepreneurial activity has increased and that productivity has also increased. The number of exporting companies is at least twice as high as in the pre-crisis period. The Estonian economy has begun to enter a period in which innovation plays a very important role in further development. Seven years ago, there was nothing like this. I think we're on a pretty solid foundation in qualitative terms.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U24	Thank you. Please, Kaia Iva, the first question to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U25	Thank you. But on the other hand, could you mention these areas or the problems that have to be acknowledged that they have been left with a partial solution and still require effective work? What bottlenecks need special attention in the coming years?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U26	Depends on how long-term we look. There has been talk about short-term issues. In some cases, the sustainability of Estonian Air is also a relatively small and short-term issue. But the new government is also temporary, so he has to deal with temporary problems. The same can be said of ferry connections, for which the Port of Tallinn has decided to declare the tender. I hope the new government will make this procurement. These are short-term questions. For the longer term, however, the main challenge remains to achieve the goal of truly internationalisation. This objective must be based on our entrepreneurship and everything we do here in our country. And we need not just internationalisation, but internationalisation so that more expensive jobs remain in Estonia and profits remain in Estonia. This, in my opinion, is the key to our economic development. We should not simply be sub-suppliers, which does not mean that sub-supplying is bad, we should not limit ourselves to thinking about our home market, but our companies should be able to operate not only in the regional and European Union internal market, but also in the global market. Headquarters would stay here, more expensive jobs would stay here, and profits would be taken out here. This is a challenge that represents one of our core issues over 50 years. If we can answer that, our wealth will grow. And we have people, we have investors, we have capitalists, or entrepreneurs, who can think at this level. If we can help these people, we will achieve our goal.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U27	Thank you. Please, Kaia Iva, the second point of clarification!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U28	Thank you. I've been told this story about the work of a long-term leader that when he resigned, he gave his successor three envelopes of proverbs and said, "If it gets hard, open the first envelope and see what I suggest to you." If this recommendation is helpful, then at the next difficult moment, you can use the next envelope, etc. Soon the offspring became troubled and opened the first envelope. There was a suggestion that you would pin everything on your predecessor. That's what he did, and it worked out. I didn't miss another time. The man opened the second envelope and saw that there was a letter in it: bring it all to the fore. That's what he did, and everything seemed to get easier. But when the third very difficult moment was at hand, there was a letter in the envelope that it was now time to resign. Have you prepared envelopes with your proverbs for the offspring?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U29	Thank you. You said those proverbs for me! But I am very sympathized with the position of the head of our outgoing government, the Prime Minister. Things are changing very quickly, and I am sure to refrain from giving my two descendants any suggestions, anything. However, I have said that I am prepared to support them in every way, to explain the reasons behind one decision or another. This is my main starting point, and I sincerely wish the two very attractive ladies strength, initiative and endurance. Although two of them, this profession is still not easy for anyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U30	Thank you. And now two questions registered on the spot. Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U31	Thank you. I shall first return to the previous question. If you want to criticize people, you don't have to criticize anyone in advance. What you did, Kaia, wasn't entirely relevant. However, to the Minister, I have this question: do you feel personally responsible for the long-term crisis of governance that has developed in EAS?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U32	Thank you. Read Enn Veskimäe's last interview a few days ago. Enn Veskimägi is former Chairman of the Estonian Employers' Confederation and member of the EAS Council. I believe he is a rather impartial person to assess the state of affairs, and he says there is no governance crisis in EAS. It is certainly important that EAS becomes a professional manager. Yes, there have been differences of opinion in the Council, some of which are the representatives of the political parties that are in the Council in accordance with our coalition agreement. To some extent, there has been mistrust in the Council, and it has created common problems such as leaks and all that. In a broad sense, however, a major mistake is made when talking about the governance crisis in EAS, because it means a false diagnosis. It is right that I certainly support the statements made by the new Minister, Mrs Sulling, on the subject that the EAS must go with time. I have repeatedly said to the Council that the EAS must change quickly and strongly to play an equivalent role, as similar agencies in Finland, Singapore, Sweden, Germany and very many other countries play. This is completely absurd when we give EAS the task of being a paying agency and comparing it with the PRIA. This is a completely absurd approach! In that case, we would make the paying agency some kind of department that would pay out the subsidies. In my opinion, this is a strategic task, which I very much hope will be resolved by the new minister. Changes are certainly needed by the EAS and very many changes have also been prepared to implement them.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U33	Thank you. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U34	Thank you, Madam President. Good Minister, I also thank you for the work you have done in managing the Estonian economy over long years! You must be the longest-serving minister of economics. There have been some good progress, and thank you for them! And thank you also for the dozens of answers you've given me, enlightening the ministry's actions and plans! But my question is this: how do you feel about the idea that drawing up a strategy for mining companies would be the job of the Ministry of Economic Affairs in the future? That's the way it is in Sweden. This is actually more of an economic issue. The Ministry of the Environment should be able to play a part in this, but not to lead the process.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U35	Yes, when I think about this seven-year job, one important strategic problem is what you mentioned. In my opinion, the conflict of interest is that the Ministry of the Environment should establish environmental requirements and supervision, rather than coordinate the use of important natural resources in the interests of growing the Estonian economy. This concerns the resource we are always talking about, that is, our forest, oil shale as well as many other mineral resources. In my opinion, we should fundamentally change the mapping of our natural resources, planning their use and linking them to strategic economic opportunities. This could certainly be the subject of the next elections and why not the issue of the government coalition following the elections. I would point out that this would under no circumstances mean concessions on environmental issues. At the moment, my good colleague is, in some ways, a victim of a conflict of interest, one way or another, he must plan to use the resources needed for the economy and, on the other hand, to monitor it. We were under pressure from the European Union to decide on fish stocks, but with regard to other natural resources, we should all be able to think through our heads and improve the situation a little bit.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U36	Thank you. I will finish the discussion on this subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U37	Let's go to the third question today. Ester Tuiksoo asks the Environment Minister Keit Pentus-Rosimethus and the subject is the amendments to the Water Act. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U38	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Minister for the Environment, I too wish you some preconceived success as a member of the next government. Speaking of water law, it seems to have gotten in the way of time. According to the current Water Act, farmers must not spread organic and mineral fertilisers between 1 December and 31 March and at other times when the land is covered by snow, frozen or periodically flooded. Nature sometimes treats us differently and drys the fields before the calendar date. Water law needs to be corrected so that yield does not suffer. How, then, are you willing to help our farmers?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U39	First of all, thank you for your good wishes. I, too, take this opportunity to thank the good members of the IRL Group, with whom a number of important things have been done in the field of the environment over the last three years. This cooperation has been pleasant in every way, and I hope that cooperation will continue in this spirit. If you come to the Water Act, indeed, the law is beautifully rigid in what you mentioned. Since it has sometimes seemed that spring will come early and will be slightly different from in some previous years, a number of representatives of farmers have also approached the Ministry of the Environment with a request that we may be able to review this restriction already this year and allow the use of fertilisers earlier. But the current situation is that the law does not allow any flexible approach here, and the law we must follow. Why has this provision been written into the law in this form at all? The reason, however, is, above all, the proposal resulting from the long-term research of scientists. After all, the goal is to protect our groundwater. Indeed, studies have shown that it is from October to March that the most fertiliser-derived compounds enter the water, and that is why such a restriction has become part of the law. Whether there is a reason to reconsider it may be discussed. In any case, we are ready to bring together actors and experts in the field and to discuss it a little.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U40	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo, the first question to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U41	Madam President! Madam Secretary! That is why I have the question of what farmers' representations should do in order to bring the law into line with nature's behaviour, so that the yield does not suffer and farmers can go into the field both in the autumn and in the spring, depending on the circumstances. What kind of help do you expect from the farmers' representations?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U42	Thank you. Let's look at this year first. The situation is that the warm weather that came for a moment did not really stop, and because of this short period of heat we would not have been able to bring the time limit forward too much, the weather conditions would simply not have made it possible. What should I do? Should be involved in the work done by the Ministry of the Environment with the Ministry of Agriculture. Above all, it must be analysed that it may indeed be reasonable to create a slightly more flexible mechanism in the law. We would not bring the date forward in the law, but would, for example, provide that in favourable weather conditions and early spring this date may be moved. This is one possible solution, but it must in any case also be considered from the point of view of the protection of groundwater. There's no way we can take that risk to put the groundwater in jeopardy.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U43	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo, the second point of clarification!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U44	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you and I agree with your views. But changes in law usually take time. Do you have any idea if the new government would be able to review and implement these changes within 11 months? Our climate is changing, as you can see. True, this year nature solved the situation itself, even though there was a problem. We may still have spring like this, and then we wouldn't want to wake up again and discover that the law doesn't allow us to increase the yield. In what time do you think the Water Act will be amended in this respect?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U45	Thank you. The pace of amending the law depends very much on Parliament, because in the end, you are going to make changes here and adopt the law. We can provide all the help we can. I'd be quite careful naming such very rigid times or specific dates. Certainly, this draft and previous analysis are not the kind of things that could be done in a few weeks. This will probably take several months, namely a prior analysis and a review of water parameters. But I don't see why it should stay too long. I do think that during this year at least it will be possible to decide whether we are going to change the law or whether it is unnecessary. In any case, it is possible that this decision will be taken within 11 months.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U46	Thank you. Now the questions registered on the spot. Please, Marko Pomerance!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U47	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Minister of the Environment! When you talk about updating the Water Act, you might, of course, ask when the party will be, where we will celebrate the 100th Amendment of the Water Act. I think about the number of times that law is being amended. My question, however, concerns the coalition agreement and relates also to groundwater. In particular, there is one point where it is stated that under the precautionary principle and the ban on practices that seriously deteriorate the environment, research at the risk of groundwater will not be allowed. While you're a minister of the environment, does that mean that no geological wells are being built at all? Or, if any are established, what are the criteria from which the risk to groundwater obviously begins?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U48	Thank you. As chairman of the former Committee on the Environment, you have certainly followed up more precisely on how many times the Water Act has really been amended, whether a hundred times has already been completed or whether there is still a little bit of going ahead. It is also true, however, that if one or the other provision has fallen into the way of time, as specifically mentioned here, for example, the restrictions on fertilization, it is reasonable to review them, because we do not have the laws that have been set up in stone. This principle that research, which could endanger the supply of groundwater to Estonian people or any of Estonia's groundwater reserves, cannot be allowed, has not only been in force at the time of my being Minister for the Environment, but has been a cross-cutting principle at the time of all environmental ministers. I sure hope so, I'm pretty sure it's gonna stay that way. The supply of groundwater is probably something that no Minister for the Environment can and must play with, and that is why the same point was written into the agreement of our new government union. In fact, it is because for some reason Ida-Virumaa and Lääne-Virumaa, all over Viru County, there are tensions once again, or somebody is going to turn up the tension, so that the extraction of phosphorite begins immediately and immediately. The government cannot behave in any other way if we have to take these tensions down again and repeat what is now known to be that research that is damaging to groundwater and, of course, not to allow such mining activities in Estonia. So the decision on when one study could damage groundwater is not a political decision. This decision must be taken by the experts and they also take the view that the precautionary principle is a fundamental principle in the field of the environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U49	According to the rules, Mr Pomerants, there is one question that can be asked on the ground. But I give the floor to Lembit Rockvee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U50	Thank you, Madam President. I'm trying to help Marko. I don't know if I got hit, but Marko probably wanted to say that the Republic of Estonia has actually taken an extremely superficial approach to research during these 22 years. We do not have a specific research system and not even an organisation. Basically, we don't do basic research on our mineral resources and geologists, scientists say it's a mess. This vague sentence in the coalition agreement added to the confusion. Perhaps you could explain in a few words how you planned these things?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U51	Thank you, good questioner! A brief explanation was given by answering the previous question. Geologists, I understand perfectly. Their interest in studying is naturally understandable. It's their profession, their profession, they're committed to it, and it can't be any other way. However, the interest of geologists is certainly not that research could lead to a disruption of the groundwater supply in one region or, worse still, become completely unusable. So once again, the principle that research that might harm or threaten groundwater is not allowed in Estonia is a fundamental principle. This is not a new principle; it must be based on it and certainly the government that is taking office before you today.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U52	Thank you very much. I will finish the discussion on this subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U53	Since no further questions have been registered in advance, it is possible to ask questions on the spot. Please state to whom your question is addressed from the ministers. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U54	Thank you, Madam President. My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. First of all, Prime Minister, thank you for answering the questions asked in the Riigikogu. At first, I thought I would ask you today how to tax foreign companies and how to get the money that goes out of Estonia. But I'm not asking because the coalition agreement says you're still analyzing it. Instead, I ask a very simple question: do you, Prime Minister, feel that you no longer have to answer before the Riigikogu, that you will no longer be sent by security guards and that you may feel free?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U55	My decision to resign had been very carefully considered, and I am convinced that this was the right decision. I dropped it without any external pressure. But when that time has come, of course, sadness is in my soul, and I do not feel that there is no need to answer your questions from this speaker.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U56	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U57	Thank you. My question is also for the Prime Minister. Prime Minister, today is the last day of your work. Unfortunately, before you left, you couldn't give up on Edgar Savisaar, saying that on the night of the bronze, you lost confidence in him. As far as I can remember, Savisaar had already agreed on this occasion that the bronze soldier would be taken away peacefully and with church characters. In contrast to your tents and your remating lies. Do you even remember that it was thanks to Edgar Savisaar that we became bloodless independent? The Declaration of Sovereignty, the People's Front, the Baltic Way, they were initiated by him, as well as by the restoration of the market economy. Do you remember all this exactly? And what did you do back then?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U58	I guess I remember. Unfortunately, yes, I'm forced to say that you have a memory problem. In 2007 or 2006, Edgar Savisaar had no willingness to move the bronze soldier to the cemetery. Absolutely no willingness to do so. True, some high - ranking church figures, including Patriarch Alexius, tried to find a peaceful solution without Edgar Savisaar, but eventually they too were forced to admit that they were incapable of doing so. Edgar Savisaar did not at any time express in any way his willingness to eliminate the tension zone. On the contrary, the whole attitude of his body and the word of his mouth spoke only of his interest in increasing tension.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U59	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U60	Thank you very much, Madam President. My question is to the Minister for Economic Affairs. One of your successors will be a minister whose title starts with the word 'foreign trade', and the other half will have that title as well. How much did you have to deal directly with foreign trade in terms of volume? And do you think it is right that this kind of ministerial position is created on the basis of your ministry?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U61	As regards the amount of work involved in the ministerial position, I have long experience in this area. In general, I think it is better for a country like Estonia to keep the number of ministers in the government office as small as possible. It's a long story, I can give almost scientific proof to support my claim. But if they want to create a new position, why not? Life will show. If the new ministers in the split ministry are interested in this, I am happy to help with their work. As far as foreign trade is concerned, the foreign minister bears great responsibility for its development. Foreign trade policy, external trade agreements, not to mention bilateral agreements on investment protection, taxation and other economic activities and support for exports, is a foreign minister's line. While the development of foreign trade is meant to help companies operate in different markets, it is also the President of the Republic, Prime Minister and certainly the Minister of Foreign Affairs. I have set up the task of carrying out at least six to eight business trips per year to target markets of interest to Estonian entrepreneurs. There have been even more of them for a few years. At the same time, it would certainly be wrong for entrepreneurs to say that the Minister is now going to sell for them, to work on entering the market and to do a lot of other things. But why not try it? Everything depends very much on the person, and I think that Mrs Sulling has all the preconditions to make a big difference in this area. I'd take my expectations down a little. There's a very exciting atmosphere right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U62	Thank you very much. I admit today I allowed you to speak 15 seconds longer. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U63	Thank you, Madam President. The question is for Mr Andrus Ansip, Prime Minister. Prime Minister Ansip, I have always respected you as a person and a person. I'll never forget our meeting in Haaberst when I hosted you as an elder in the district. So far, there's a little video footage of it up there somewhere on the Internet. I have admired your excellent slogan 'Estonia's five richest countries! A great idea! The resurrection of Christ is also promised for 2,000 years, so far the people still believe and go to church in the same frenzy faith as your voters in the ballot boxes. If you leave now, will this slogan leave the political scene with you, or will your successor carry it along with his disciples? Or does he have to invent a new confession and your constituents have to convert?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U64	That is not a question of faith. I hope that not only the incoming office, but all the next, will work to ensure that the lives of the Estonian people are improved and that our wealth grows. This wealth has grown very quickly in recent times, I am thinking of the last 20 years. Over the last ten years, Estonia's economic growth has been one of the fastest in the European Union, even the fastest in the last 15 years. Who has no dreams, it flies low. If we do not set high goals, we will hardly ever become a truly developed and prosperous country. I think that reaching out to the wealthiest countries is one of those goals that future governments could also pursue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U65	Thank you very much. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U66	Thank you. I will ask the Prime Minister again because I did not get an answer to my question before. Do you remember that thanks to Edgar Savisaar, we became peacefully independent, and you admit that the contribution that Savisaar made back then is absolutely invaluable? After all, he did not cooperate with Evgeni Kogan at the Tallinn Council, as did many other parties, including the Reform Party. Do you remember this and what you did during the bloodless restoration of Estonia's independence?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U67	Of course I remember. I was an active entrepreneur at the time. I remember Edgar Savisaar's role back then, and I wouldn't overemphasise that role. In my opinion, it is inappropriate to attribute the services of the Estonian people to only one person. Yeah, he had a role, but it wasn't that big. Clearly, the People's Front played its part and played the characters of the Supreme Council at the time. Arnold Rüütel played a very clear and solid role, but the contribution of Estonian citizens' committees, ERSP and other actors was also very important. People outside Estonia, such as the Roman Pope and Solidarity movement, also played a very significant and perhaps even decisive role. But I think the most important part was Ronald Reagan, who said that the Empire of Evil must be destroyed. As we know, the price of oil was $47 a barrel in 1982. The Soviet Union did not pay any attention to information and communication technology, but it was soon discovered that the Americans are already using this technology in armaments. The Soviet Union launched its arms programmes, invested huge amounts of oil dollars, but in 1987 the price of oil barrels fell to $10 on the world market. It was largely Ronald Reagan's favor. The Soviet Union lost its oil dollars to feed its military programmes and its people. In my opinion, the collapse of the Eastern bloc's economy was primarily caused by the fall in oil prices. The most important and most groundbreaking person in this phase of history was President Ronald Reagan, not Edgar Savisaar.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U68	Thank you. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U69	Thank you, Madam President. Good Prime Minister! A number of issues have been addressed here today by the administration of ministries. Juhan Parts has already answered me, but I would also like to hear your opinion. Do you think that planning our mining industry should go as it is, under the leadership of the Ministry of the Environment, or should it be under the administration of the Ministry of Economic Affairs? In Sweden, for example, these strategies are confirmed by the government on the proposal of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the volume of mining will double in the coming years. The reason is that there is a need to increase mining capacity to ensure the long-term social well-being of the population. The Ministry of the Environment would certainly not do so in Estonia, the Ministry of Economic Affairs maybe.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U70	Not only in the mining industry, but in general society must be very careful when using natural resources. These decisions must be made prudently. Conflicts will remain forever. Those who want to use resources want to make the most of them and pay as little as possible for them. At the same time, in the interests of society as a whole, resources should also be maintained for future generations. And, of course, the use of natural resources must be remunerated fairly at least in such a way as to compensate for the damage caused to the environment. Thus, both ministries, the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, have to deal with mining resources, minerals to be extracted. Interests are different, interests are conflicting, but it is always possible to find a good and fair solution for the people and the country in view of these opposing interests. I would like both ministries to continue to be thoroughly and intensively engaged in the use of natural resources in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U71	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U72	Thank you. My question is for the Prime Minister. My colleague, Lembit Kaljuvee, touched on a problem relating to the mining industry. My question to you too, Prime Minister, is on this issue. A few weeks ago, Eesti Energia held a big meeting with the people in Sillamäe and one suggestion was that Eesti Energia's headquarters be located in Ida-Virumaa. That is my question to you: how do you appreciate this proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U73	Thank you. I'm not very eager to change structures, draw boxes, mover of apartments. I'd rather follow the plumber's rule that there's no point in touching a pipe that doesn't leak. If you go to tighten the counter-muffs on a pipe that doesn't leak, it's gonna explode and there's gonna be a big flood. The damage that this could cause will not come together later. In my view, Eesti Energia is a successful company, which is also reflected in its economic performance. I do not necessarily consider it necessary to implement such radical changes. Eesti Energia includes not only the production of energy, but also the sale of energy, and its customers are scattered not only in Ida-Virumaa, but all over Estonia. Moreover, Estonia Energia sells quite a considerable part of its production volume outside Estonia's borders and outside Estonia's borders the company also earns its basic profit. It is not a matter of taste but a task of purely optimization to decide where the geographical point of keeping officials in a particular field is concerned. Let it be for the company's own managers to decide.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U74	Thank you. Now, let's take the last question of Question Time today. Please, Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U75	Thank you, Madam President. I also have a question for the Prime Minister. In particular, I would like to thank him for the work he has done, although we did not agree on very many issues, but on different points of view. But for nine years as Prime Minister, it is a very long time, and during that time a decision was also made that the Centre Party has approved. But I don't really have a question for you. I have a request. Now are the last minutes when you can answer our questions and remarks as Prime Minister in Question Time. Perhaps you would like to apologize to the Estonian people for something, yes, not the members of the Riigikogu, but the Estonian people? We have a show where politicians apologize. Do you want to apologize for something?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U76	This last moment as Prime Minister here in the Question Time Chair, I would use it to thank the honourable Riigikogu, to thank all my governments, their members for their dedicated work and also to thank the Estonian people. These nine years have been very busy and responsible for me. At the same time, it has been an exceptional honour for me to work as Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia for nine years, and I am extremely grateful to the Estonian people for what they have done together in the last nine years!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U77	Thank you very much. I also take the power to thank the Prime Minister, on behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, for our cooperation, for the firm leadership of the government in difficult and a little less difficult times, which have remained in this nine-year period, but certainly also for many innovative, innovative ideas, initiatives and bold decisions. Thank you very much, Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Our briefing is over. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U78	Honourable Riigikogu! We will start the ninth working week session of our VII session on Wednesday. First of all, I'm ready to accept your drafts and your inquiries. Please register! Juku-Kalle Raid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U79	Dear Nestor! Ladies and gentlemen, There is a draft that was actually due to arrive here in the autumn, but we know very well the technical reasons why it will not arrive in the autumn. This concerns the reduction of VAT on books and notebooks from 9% to 5%. In order not to smell of sweaty populism, the date of entry into force of the Act has been placed here on 1 January 2016, not 2015. So it doesn't go under election fights either. Some people have signed every party except Igor Gräzin. Otherwise, it's all right. It is just that we know very well that this bill, according to the publishers' association, would allow the price of books to be reduced by one or two euros in a shop and certainly significantly increased the copyright fee of Estonian authors.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U80	There's no more calls. I've adopted a bill. Well, according to established practice, now reports. First, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed leading committees: the draft law amending the University Act, the Law on the Organisation of Research and Development and the Law on the Organisation of Research and Development initiated by the Government on 24 March; the draft law amending the VAT Act initiated by the Government of the Republic on 24 March; the commission is the Finance Committee; the draft law amending the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Implementation of the Common Agricultural Policy of the Government on 24 March; the draft law amending the Law on the Law on the Law on the amendment of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Implementation of the Common Agricultural Policy of the European Union; and the commission is also the Rural Affairs Committee; the law on the amendment of the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, initiated on 25 March by Mr Andres Herkel, the leading committee is the Constitutional Committee. Secondly, the Management Board of the Riigikogu has registered Karel Rüütli, member of the Social Democratic Party, as chairman of the Group, and members of the Riigikogu, Indrek Saare and Kalev Kotkase, as vice-presidents of the Riigikogu. Thirdly, it is reported that the Social Democratic Party Group has withdrawn draft 582 of the Riigikogu's decision to propose to the Government of the Republic. We're gonna do a presence check. Currently 84 members of the Riigikogu are present, 17 are missing. I have one more detail on the agenda for you. The President of the Republic appointed s. a On 26 March, by decision No 397, the Government of the Republic formed by Taavi Rõivas was appointed. Pursuant to § 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, the Government of the Republic takes office by taking an oath before the Riigikogu. The Government of the Republic will take an oath at today's Riigikogu session as the last item on the agenda, but no sooner than 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U81	Let's get to the agenda. First, the third reading of the draft Motor Insurance Act 423 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Is there a wish to speak or speak? The commission has proposed to put the draft to the final vote of 423 but, as this draft requires a majority of its component members, there is a need to re-examine the presence. We're gonna do a presence check. Currently 84 members of the Riigikogu are present, 17 are missing. I am voting on draft law 423 on motor insurance initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 83 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft law, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The law has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U82	The second item is the third reading of the draft law amending and repealing legislation initiated by the Government of the Republic. Any requests? If not, we will prepare for the final vote. I am voting on the revision of legislation initiated by the Government of the Republic regarding the draft law amending and repealing the law 519. Please take a stand and vote. 72 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft law, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The law has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U83	We will begin the third reading of the draft law amending the Tax Administration Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The commission has proposed that the draft be put to the final vote. Do the members of the Riigikogu want to speak? Ene Ergma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U84	The procedural question: can all members of the Riigikogu now give a speech?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U85	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, But they are also members of the Riigikogu. Looks like there's no call. I will put to the final vote the draft law amending the Tax Administration Act 575 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. There were 82 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft law, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The law has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U86	The fourth item is the third reading of the draft Act amending § 22 of the Advertising Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Any requests? There's no call. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to the final vote on 584. Let's start preparing it. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft amendment to § 22 of the Advertising Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, 584. Please take a stand and vote. There were 80 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft law, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The Act amending § 22 of the Advertising Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U87	Agenda item 5, 3rd reading of the draft Act amending the Natural Gas Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Are there any requests for speech or speech? There are no requests for speech or speech. Let us begin preparations for the final vote. I am voting on the draft law amending the Law on Natural Gas, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 556. Please take a stand and vote. 77 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of adopting the draft, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The Law amending the Natural Gas Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U88	Agenda item 6, third reading of the draft law amending other laws relating to the amendment of the Tax Administration Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the members of the Riigikogu, who have obtained the authority of their political group, wish to make a speech? There's no call. Let us move to preparing the final vote. I am voting on the draft law amending other laws relating to the amendment of the Tax Administration Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, 574. Please take a stand and vote. There were 76 members of the Riigikogu, there were no respondents and no abstentions in favour of the adoption of the draft law amending other laws relating to the amendment of the Tax Administration Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The law has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U89	Agenda item 7 Third reading of the draft Act amending the Health Insurance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Are there any requests for speech or speech? There are no requests for speech or speech. The Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote on 551. Let's start preparing it. I will put to the final vote the draft law amending the Health Insurance Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 551. Please take a stand and vote. 79 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of the adoption of the draft Act amending the Health Insurance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, and there were no respondents or neutral parties. The law has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U90	Agenda item No 8, third reading of the draft Act amending the Medical Device Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Are there any requests to speak or to speak? No, it's not. Let's start preparing the vote. I am voting on the draft law amending the Medical Device Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 562. Please take a stand and vote. There were 80 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the adoption of the draft Act amending the Medical Device Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, and there were no respondents or impartial parties. The law has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U91	Agenda item 9, third reading of the draft Act amending the Law on the Organisation of Health Services initiated by the Government of the Republic. Are there any requests for speech or speech? There doesn't seem to be any such requests. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft 566. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Act on the Organisation of Health Services, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 566. Please take a stand and vote. There were 75 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the adoption of the Act amending the Law on the Organisation of Health Services, initiated by the Government of the Republic, no one opposed, 1 abstention. The law has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U92	Agenda item No 10, Second reading of draft Law 589 on the ratification of the Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Rannar Vassilyev, Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to act as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U93	Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee discussed the draft law on the ratification of the Mutual Administrative Assistance Convention in tax matters, which some of us also know under the name of the 589 SE, under the leadership of the Chairman of the Commission, Sven Sester, on 18 March 2014, and decided to make both linguistic and technical clarifications in the draft. These clarifications have also been made. The aim of the draft is to ratify the Convention in order to promote international cooperation in order to make national tax laws work better, while respecting the fundamental rights of taxpayers. The Convention provides for a form of administrative cooperation which allows countries to charge and collect taxes more effectively and to combat tax evasion. The Commission took the following consensual decisions: to put the draft on the agenda on Wednesday 26 March 2014, i.e. today, to close the second reading and to put it to a final vote. A majority of votes in favour is required for the adoption of the draft as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U94	Thank you. Do the members of the Riigikogu have any questions for the waitress? Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U95	Thank you. Could you open up a little more of what you were talking about in the committee and what the questions about the bill were?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U96	Rather, the substantive discussion of the draft proposal took place at the previous meeting, where the government representative gave an overview of the content of the draft law on the ratification of the Mutual Administrative Assistance Convention in tax matters. Various questions were asked. If I recall the previous sitting, the main issue was whether or not such administrative assistance should be applied to local taxes. Estonia has considered that there is no reason to do this because, as we know, we have a relatively limited amount of local taxes and the practical benefits may prove disproportionate compared to what may take to cooperate. The last session was mainly about linguistic and technical issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U97	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U98	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, I understand there's been some kind of nervousness in the hall, so maybe we can get this over with before 3:00. In order to avoid this problem, it is certainly possible for the manager to take a break in the meantime. But to make it easier for you, please repeat all your previous answers once more!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U99	It gets a little complicated because I answered off my head and I don't have that text in front of me. I can try to do that, but I'm not sure I can do it literally. If that wish still exists, I can try. If not, I would leave you the opportunity to read a verbatim report that is available to all members of the Riigikogu. The Steinogram is available at www.riigikogu.ee.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U100	Do the members of the Riigikogu have any other questions for the waitress? No, it's not. As an intermediate remark, the President is aware of his rights. Is there a desire to give a speech or to speak? It doesn't look like it. There were no amendments to this draft, so there is no revision. The Committee on Finance has proposed that the draft be put to the final vote on 589. Let's start preparing it. Dear Riigikogu, in tax matters initiated by the Government of the Republic, I am voting on draft Act 589 on the ratification of the Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance. Please take a stand and vote. In tax matters initiated by the Government of the Republic, 50 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of the adoption of the draft Act on the ratification of the Mutual Administrative Assistance Convention (589), no one opposed, 1 member of the Riigikogu abstained. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U101	The next item is the continuation of the second reading of the draft Act amending the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr. Margus Tsahkna, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, would you like to present the speech chair?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U102	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good friends! I'm also trying to talk a little bit slower, because I don't think the government's together yet, so it's three o'clock. This is how we can fill this time here. The second reading of the draft law amending the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic was interrupted in this Chamber on 12 March. a. No amendments to the draft have been tabled. The Committee on Social Affairs discussed this draft on 17 March and 24 March. a. There were two topics that we discussed. The first was the address and letter of the Estonian Association of Small and Medium Enterprises. We also invited their representatives to the meeting of the Commission. Meelis Paavel, Chairman of the Management Board of the Social Ministry's Labour Market Department, Meelis Paavel, Chairman of the Unemployment Insurance Fund, and Ira Songisepp, Head of the Legal Department, and Liri Oja and Erle Rikmann, advisers of the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu were also present. The point of EVEA's letter was that they disagree with the opinion of the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. In the opinion of EVEA, the draft is based on the wrong assumption that membership of the Board is equivalent to work. In the opinion of the representatives of the EVEA, the exclusion of a person who has lost his or her job and who is at the same time a member of the board of directors from the protection associated with the unemployment status gives the wrong signal to the business environment and discourages small businesses. According to the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund, the provision of employment services, the payment of benefits and benefits to help the unemployed find a job, and health insurance are not a measure aimed at developing entrepreneurship. The purpose of the draft is to ensure that persons who are unemployed and are seeking employment and employment services and benefits and unemployment benefit are covered. According to the Ministry of Social Affairs and the unemployment fund, the head of the company is not without a job, but is in charge of the company, even if he has agreed to do so without a fee or if there are difficulties in paying the fee. The contract of a member of the management board of a company is by its nature a contract of command and the principal must pay a fee when agreed upon. If a fee has not been agreed, the company may also be managed without remuneration. If a company has difficulties in paying remuneration, for example, a start-up undertaking, a seasonal operator, etc., there is a business risk. The Labour Market Services and Support Act aims to achieve a high level of employment rather than to mitigate business risks. This is the philosophy and logic from which the law is based. The second topic was a letter from the Minister for Social Affairs proposing that the draft be supplemented so that the unemployed person's account will not be terminated immediately after the start-up grant has been transferred to an unemployed bank account if he has not yet set up or manages the company without payment. Not on the day the money is transferred, but 90 days after the transfer. In the opinion of the Unemployment Insurance Fund, this proposal also fails to comply with the principle of the draft, so that persons who are unemployed and who are looking for work can receive employment services and benefits and unemployment benefit. The objective of start-up support is for the unemployed to create a job as soon as possible. If this period is extended for another three months, the unemployment rate will be pushed further. Under the current law, sufficient measures are in place to encourage the start-up of entrepreneurship. In the case of start-up support, the unemployment fund helps to complete training and improve knowledge. Within the start-up support, there are amounts that cover the costs necessary for starting a business, and may be used in part for labour costs during the first months of the company's activity. So the unemployment fund did not support the introduction of an amendment to the letter from the Minister of Social Affairs either. That's why we stopped the bill between second reading and second reading. In the light of the letter from the Minister for Social Affairs, an amendment was proposed by the Commission, but the vote in favour, against and 0 abstentions did not support the proposal. Ultimately, the draft has made linguistic improvements that have been underlined. The decisions of the commission were as follows: The committee decided to submit a draft for the second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 26 March and to propose that the second reading be terminated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U103	Thanks to the waitress! There are questions for Margus Tsahkna. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U104	Thank you. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! There are quite a lot of interested people in this Chamber, maybe you can open up this debate more accurately. The debate was quite interesting, and I can say that the chairman of the committee had organised it very well. There were representatives of interest groups who spoke about their concerns. Speak, please, more than that!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U105	Thank you, good questioner, for the compliment! Now I am talking in my head, like Mrs Vasilyev on the previous item. One thing that has really been overlooked is that we give our own carers, who receive the maintenance fee, the opportunity to register as unemployed. At present, they do not have this option, they will receive this low maintenance fee, and they will be excluded from active labour market measures. It's part of the bill that hasn't caused anyone any problems. Indeed, we have discussed a great deal about this part of the ban on registration as an unemployed member of the company's management board. Those parties who have been to the Commission have actually drawn attention to the right things. For example, small companies that do not have a permanent turnover or who may not generate any turnover in some years still need a board member, and if this board member has become unemployed, if we adopt this law, he or she cannot register as unemployed or must withdraw from office as a board member. This change hampers entrepreneurship and support for entrepreneurship. The argument has been over ideology. The function of the Unemployment Insurance Fund is to support and help people to work, but philosophically speaking, being a member of the board is also a job. Whether he gets paid or he doesn't get paid, that's a completely separate question. The debate in the Commission has been about this in a broad sense. In the same way, I also support this philosophical approach that the job-retirement fund is not really responsible for developing entrepreneurship. In fact, the information we have received from EVEA and other business organisations should go to the Economic Commission and the Ministry of Economic Affairs so that entrepreneurs and start-ups can be supported either through EAS or KredEx or whatever. Let's just say that the decision-making point is in this Chamber, we have to decide whether or not we support this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U106	Thank you, Margus Tsahkna! The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. The Commission has proposed to conclude the second reading. No other proposals have been received by the Bureau. The second reading of Bill 521 is complete. I'll announce the chairman's break of 21 minutes. Break ends at 3:00.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U107	Dear President of the Republic, Honourable Riigikogu! Dear members of the outgoing government and members of the new government! Next, we have the opportunity to hear the oath of office of the members of the Government of the Republic. Prime Minister of the Government of the Republic taking office in Taavi Rõiva, I would like to ask you to take an oath of office in the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U108	Honourable President of the Republic! Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! In taking on the duties of a member of the Government of the Republic, I am aware that in this capacity I am responsible for the Republic of Estonia and my conscience. I solemnly swear to remain faithful to the constitutional order of the Republic of Estonia and to devote my strength to securing the well-being and future of the Estonian people. [[Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas will sign.]] I ask for the oath of office of ministers of my government: Minister for Education and Science Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister for Justice and Agriculture Andres Anvelt, Minister for Defence Sven Mikser, Minister for the Environment Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Minister for Culture Urve Tiidus, Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications Urve Palo, Minister for Finance Jürgen Ligi, Minister for the Interior and Minister for Regional Affairs Hanno Pevkur, Minister for Social Affairs Helmen Küttt, Minister for Foreign Affairs Urmas Paet, Minister Urmas Kruuse and Minister Anne Sulling. [[Ministers shall sign the text of the oath. Let's hear it.]] Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-26_U109	Honourable Riigikogu! I will read to you the decision of the President of the Republic: 'Decision No 398 of the President of the Republic. Done at Toompeal, 26 March 2014. Release of the Government of the Republic. I hereby release the Government of the Republic, headed by Andrus Ansip, from office on 5 April 2011, following the entry into office of the new Government on 26 March 2014. Basis: Constitution of the Republic of Estonia § 78 point 10 and § 92 paragraph 2. Toomas Hendrik Ilves. ' One government has been released, one government has been mentioned. Mr President, you have the opportunity to congratulate the new government. [[The President of the Republic congratulates the members of the Government.]] On behalf of the Riigikogu, I congratulate the government that has taken office! The session of the Riigikogu is closed for today. [[Let's hear it.]] Closure of the sitting at 3.13 p.m.
