ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the Monday session of the 17th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First, you can deliver drafts and inquiries. Representative of the Government of the Republic Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U2	Mr. Chairman! Good Riigikogu! Today, the Government of the Republic initiates a draft amendment to § 42 of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Education and Science, will represent the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of this bill in the Riigikogu. Secondly, the Government will present a draft of the Riigikogu decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in the post-conflict peace-building mission in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria'. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Defence, Sven Mikser. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U3	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U4	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, I, on behalf of the Centre Party Group, have an inquiry to the Minister of Social Affairs, Helmen Hunt, and the problem this time is nursing homes. We were based on a recent audit by the National Audit Office, which assessed the organisation of a 24-hour general care home service for the elderly, in a large number of nursing homes. The audit pointed out, among other things, that there is no way to understand how much an elderly person should pay from his pension to a nursing home. For example, in the same municipality, pensioners pay the nursing home very differently, in one case 80% of the pension, and in the other, 100%, i.e. they give the entire pension. The National Audit Office points out that the entire pension should not be taken away from the pensioner, as the elderly must also have money to cover needs that are not covered by the care service. Another important point in the audit is that when a person comes to a nursing home when a municipality is directed, his/her health status and information on health problems, as well as the medicine used and the need for treatment should be established first. This is also where our questions come from to the Minister. We ask, among other things, what is his assessment of the availability of family doctor services in nursing homes, which, as we know, leaves much to be desired. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U5	Thank you. There's no more calls. I have adopted two drafts and one inquiry. If they comply with the requirements of the Home and Working Procedures Act, the Management Board shall act with them in accordance with that Act. Please, let's do the presence check! There are 87 members of the Riigikogu, no 14. Let's get on the agenda. May I have your attention, please? On Thursday, the fifth item is the draft law amending the Government of the Republic Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related to the amendment of other laws 654. Drafts 654 and 109 have been merged by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs so that both drafts 654 and 109 are discussed on the same agenda item. Together with this amendment, I shall make the agenda subject to approval. Honourable Riigikogu, I vote on the VIIth plenary session of the Riigikogu... I'm sorry! Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U6	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, I propose that the following points be removed from the agenda of this working week on Tuesday: item No 7, draft law amending the Law on excise duties and other excise duties initiated by the Government; item No 8, draft law amending the Tax Administration Act and the VAT Act initiated by the Government; item No 9, draft law amending the Income Tax Act, the Social Tax Act and the Estonian Cultural Endowment Act initiated by the Government. Why is the IRL Group proposing this? A lot has been said recently about the need to increase, to improve inclusion in Parliament as well as in the country as a whole, but it has to be acknowledged that the work practice of the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu during the last week is intrinsically far from it. The government submitted these drafts to Parliament's plenary on Monday last week, and they were also referred to Parliament's Committee on Monetary Affairs on Monday last week. The texts of these drafts were not received by the Committee on Monetary Affairs until Tuesday morning when these issues were discussed at the meeting. This means that it was not possible to hold a substantive debate, at least on Tuesday last week, for the MPs representing the opposition. On Tuesday last week, it was agreed that the debate would continue in the Riigikogu Finance Committee next Monday, but regrettably the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi did not attend today's session. These are voluminous drafts, both in their content, in their impact on society and in technical terms, in the volume of the text. We have always said that substantive work is taking place in committees, but, unfortunately, it has to be acknowledged that, in the case of these drafts, the Commission's work in the preparation of the first reading is essentially blocked. For these reasons, I propose that these three items be removed from the plenary agenda for this week.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U7	Are any political groups protesting against this proposal? Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U8	Thank you, President-in-Office. We are, of course, protesting against this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U9	Urmas Reinsalu, please, what is this about?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U10	Before voting on this question, or rather approving the agenda, I will ask the President of the Riigikogu about the procedure. Is the Management Board of the Riigikogu aware of such arrangements in the Finance Committee and what is the opinion of the Chairman of the Riigikogu on such arrangements?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U11	The drafts submitted to the Riigikogu have been directed to committees, including the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and the agenda of this working week has been drawn up in accordance with the proposals of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Pursuant to the Home and Working Procedures Act, everyone has the right to make proposals when the agenda is approved. If any political group is opposed to the amendments tabled, we will not vote here, but vote on the entire agenda at once, and we will either be in favour of the whole agenda or against it. The Governing Board shall not be entitled to reschedule the Commission's decisions. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U12	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Did I understand you correctly that you believe that the Riigikogu's rules of procedure and rules of procedure are in line with a situation where a member of the Riigikogu has no opportunity to discuss the draft in the large Chamber before the debate in the committee, in essence, together with the representative of the initiator, or minister? Is this consistent with the meaning and provision of the Home and Working Procedures Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U13	The meaning and provision of the Rules of Procedure Act say that ministers go to committees. The meaning and provision of the Rules of Procedure Act also state that sometimes the Minister may be replaced by his fine fellows from the Ministry, whom the Minister has authorised to discuss the draft. Unless such a question arose during the debate on the draft within the Commission, I do not see a problem here when the Bureau approves the agenda. This practice has been a matter for each Commission itself. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For the first time, I heard the President of the Riigikogu ask if any political groups would protest. It's most polite to ask that. But since this was the first time, I would like to know which section of our Home and Working Procedures Act you followed when you asked such a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U15	I was based on this section, which obliges the President to direct the work of the Riigikogu. Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U16	Thank you, Mr President. You pointed out in your reply whether there was a debate in the Commission on the need for the Minister to be present as a representative of the initiator of the draft, and whether there were any procedures in this regard and whether the debate should be postponed. I can assure you here that both last week, when we first dealt with the drafts, after receiving the documents immediately before it, and today the Commission also paid attention to it and, in essence, the majority of the votes stated that this is the new procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U17	Remo Holsmer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U18	Thank you. As a member of the Monetary Commission, I say for the sake of the truth that the plenary hall of the Riigikogu would also know: last week, the representative of the initiator was the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi at the committee when we first discussed these drafts. For the second time, we discussed these drafts at the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs today. It is not correct to claim that the originator Minister has not been to the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U19	Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U20	Thank you. As a member of the Committee on Finance, I would say that last week we did not have the materials and, unfortunately, the minister did not attend the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs in which the minister did not attend, the substitute minister was not able to answer all the questions, as the committee meeting was closed before. There were still many questions and this was brought to the attention of the Commission. Does a Member of the Commission have the right to receive answers to all questions before coming to the draft Chamber?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U21	No, it's not. Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U22	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to add to the observation made by my good colleague, Mr Holsmer, that there was, in fact, a situation last week where the minister was present, but the material had not been delivered. It was possible to read all the materials today, but now the minister was not there again. Do you, good manager, consider this practice normal and correct?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U23	The question was for the President, but it is reasonable to ask the chairman of the committee about the Commission's rules of procedure. I, too, have been a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs and I remember previous practice. Remo Holsmer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U24	Thank you. I can assure you that last week, when the Commission discussed these drafts and Jürgen Ligi was also present as the initiator, the relevant material had been sent to the members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs before the meeting of the Commission on the morning of the same day.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U25	Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U26	Thank you. You indicated that the committee's rules of procedure could be asked by the chairman of the committee, but apparently it is very difficult for the committee chairman to evaluate his work. That is why I am asking you, Mr President, if you consider this correct, that the answer to the questions was closed today in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, that it was not decided to continue the debate on these items, and that the procedural decisions were taken without the matter being discussed. Do you consider this to be the right thing to do with your groupmate?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U27	I remember so much of the Rules of Procedure law that the Monday Commission meeting will end at a certain time of day. Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U28	Thank you. Dear President-in-Office, would you not consider the possibility of taking the chairman's break, convening the Board of the Riigikogu and discussing the situation? Indeed, such behaviour in Parliament, that the draft has not been discussed in the Commission, cannot be tolerated in any way. I think it would make a lot of sense if you took a break. Discuss the situation and make a fair decision!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U29	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U30	Good manager! Am I right to understand that the Riigikogu Board will decide next week's agenda according to what the Commission proposal will be on Thursday of last week if the agenda is approved for next week? In other words, by the time the Bureau meeting, where the agenda was put together, there was a Commission proposal for a specific agenda and their agenda items. Am I right?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U31	Yeah, that's right. That is what I said in my first reply to MP Reinsalu. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U32	Thank you. To explain to Bureau members who were not present at the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs last week or this week. Last week, the Committee on Monetary Affairs started discussing drafts that had been made available to the members of the committee a few hours before the start of the Commission's meeting. These drafts are each twenty pages of close text. Members of the Commission were unable to access the materials, because at the same time we had a plenary session. A conditional decision was made that the debate will take place today. There was little time today, the debate was interrupted and only urgent procedural decisions were taken. Thus, the Committee on Monetary Affairs has not been able to discuss the drafts in concrete terms, as should be the case with the drafts. If the Commission did not have time, it would be correct to remove these points from the agenda and to continue the debate next week.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U33	The Bureau followed this proposal, which was made by the Commission last week, and could not rely on anything else. The Commission today had the opportunity to decide that it would remove a few points from the agenda, but such a proposal has not come from the Commission. Remo Holsmer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U34	I am sorry that we will continue this debate on the Committee on Monetary Affairs for so long in this large Chamber. However, for other people who are not members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the first discussion of these drafts at the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs last week, where the Minister of Finance was also present, lasted almost three hours. So Kadri Simson's final statement that the drafts have been discussed only in today's session is not true. We have done so in two sessions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U35	Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U36	Thank you. I understand that new information has hatched for the President of the Riigikogu today. After all, it has been repeated several times here that these drafts were tried last week, but they did not get to know the material, and today there was little time available. Couldn't the Bureau now offer the Commission the opportunity to take new procedural decisions, take a break and give the Commission the opportunity to propose to remove these items from the agenda? Then the Commission could proceed with the discussion and come back to the Chamber with the work that has been done in detail. I understand the Bureau didn't know these things before, but now the circumstances are clearing up.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U37	The Bureau is obliged to base its agenda on decisions taken by the Commission and not on any of its knowledge. Cameron Maruse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U38	Thank you, Mr President. I will continue with what you have now stated: there is a procedural procedure for putting together the agenda for the plenary session of the Riigikogu, and once this procedure has been observed, it can no longer be changed in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U39	Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U40	Thank you. Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Am I right to understand that, now that the coalition has a high proportion of votes, the Riigikogu does not have to comply with the law of working and working rules and that the sessions of committees may remain such a place where discussions no longer take place?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U41	No, you don't get it right. Honourable Riigikogu, along with the amendment to item 5 of the Thursday agenda, I propose that the plenary session of the Riigikogu be approved by... Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U42	Thank you. Colleagues Maruste is probably not well informed about the working and working rules of the Riigikogu. The large hall does not have to be based on the Commission's proposal, but the large hall is completely free and independent in its decisions. So we can decide differently than the Commission proposed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U43	Very right, and I would add that the side is green and there is a red button against it. Honourable Riigikogu, I propose... Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U44	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. As you said a little while ago, the Board of the Riigikogu will draw up the agenda on the basis of the decisions of the committee. However, since the agenda is confirmed by the members of the Riigikogu when voting, the opinions of the members of the Riigikogu are therefore also taken into account. The Centre Party has been a party of opposition for a long time, and the opposition party, of course, has its own attitude on the agenda. However, the IRL has been in power for a long time, so they have seen the matter both on the one hand and on the other, and are probably very objectively able to assess whether the information was available to them or not. I am afraid that it was not, and that is why I support Mr Riisalu's proposal that the Bureau should come together and discuss this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U45	I'll answer it procedurally. The board may meet, but there's nothing to discuss. There is a Commission proposal and no other proposals have been received by the Bureau. Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U46	If there is a problem that the Commission did not work exactly as it had to work, etc., which we do not know, the only way to find out is to put a point on the agenda. Then we will start to look at how the Commission has worked during the debate on the substance of the item. A question that is not on the agenda cannot be discussed. That is why I propose that this be left on the agenda, and for my sake, we will discuss it several times, even at once, so that it becomes clear.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U47	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U48	Thank you, Mr President. As far as I am concerned, the Chairman of the IRL Group has proposed that these points be removed from the agenda and that there are also reasons for this proposal during the debate. So there is a very clear new information. Does this information satisfy you and is it enough to call the board for an additional meeting?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U49	Proposals for amendments to the agenda shall be made by the Commission, or, if they are made by anyone when the agenda is adopted, they shall automatically be taken into account, unless a political group objects. As there was a protest in this case, agenda items 7, 8 and 9 will continue to be on the agenda on Tuesday. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the agenda for the 17th working week of the VII plenary session of the Riigikogu with an amendment to item 5 of the Thursday agenda. Please take a stand and vote. What's the problem? Please, Urmas Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U50	Thank you. I'm asking you to cancel the vote! While it was argued earlier that the members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs would have been able to read these tens of pages in a few hours last week, I had a proposal on behalf of the IRL Group to take a five-minute break so that we could read all these drafts within five minutes. So my proposal was to take a ten-minute break before the vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U51	My helpers with an exact eye say that I had announced the vote before as a name. [[There's noise in the hall, there's talk.]] All right, take it easy! I am withdrawing the vote because there are different opinions. Honourable Riigikogu, I ask you to cancel the result of the previous vote. Nevertheless, there is a desire to speak procedurally. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U52	Mr. Chairman! I'm looking at our rules of procedure and homework. Paragraph 54 (3) states that once the agenda is announced, it may be supplemented only if no political group objects. Here's a word like "to complement." Today it is not proposed to supplement, but to take three points off, on the contrary. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U53	You have to comment as I have commented. The improvement is also an amendment to the agenda. I understand that this gives rise to different opinions, but this has been the custom so far. Well, we're now in the eye with Urmas Reinsalu. Honourable Riigikogu, I vote on the Riigikogu plenary... [[There's talk in between in the hall.]] I canceled the previous vote. The previous vote has been cancelled, is everyone clear? I shall vote on the agenda for the 17th working week of the VII plenary session of the Riigikogu. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U54	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Together, we're gonna get to the mountain with all these things. I will take a ten-minute break on behalf of the IRL Group so that Members can at least theoretically examine these drafts.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U55	Ten minutes break. We'll proceed at 3:36 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U56	The break taken by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance is over. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the agenda for the 17th working week of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu, with details in item 5 of the Thursday agenda. Please take a stand and vote. There are 53 members of the Riigikogu in favour of approving the agenda, 36 against and no abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U57	Let's get to the fixed agenda. Members of the Riigikogu Aivar Kokk, Margus Tsahkna, Peeter Laurson, Urmas Reinsalu, Erki Nool, Andrus Saare, Jaak Aaviksoo, Helir-Valdor Seeder, Kaia Iva, Liisa-Ly Pakosta, Ken-Marti Vaher, Siim Kiisler, Lauri Vahtre, Ene Ergma and Annely Akkermann have submitted an inquiry to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications. Aivar Koka, as the representative of the interviewees.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U58	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Enquirying the signatories of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications is motivated by concerns about the roads of Estonia in the coming years. When we came here three years ago, many of you joined the support group for local governments and regional policy, where we have tried very clearly to explain to the government how important tea money is. And especially important is the part that goes on local roads, that is, local government money. In three years, we have achieved that the share of the money from excise duties on fuel has increased from 5% to 10% for local governments. But now, unfortunately, the provisional government is of the opinion that there is too much money going on roads and that it is possible to withdraw EUR 25 million for running costs. Perhaps it is a tradition that if we see a hole in current expenditure in the budget somewhere, it is easy to take the necessary amount of money for roads from where else. It's not like anyone really understands whether there's a hole in the tea more or less. So, our constant concern is that people come to town for jobs. So the roads are bad and you can't drive from the country to the city. The solution is simple: we take a one-way ticket, we drive to the city and we stay there. Or would it still be more correct that the road plan, which has been made until 2020, would have been designed to make the roads right and that our homes could also be outside the big cities and their rings? So we can have good and fast connections between the workplace and home. That we should not at one point admit that Estonia is divided into two different regions, one is an entrepreneurial Estonian region, where business can be done, and the other half needs social assistance, because the roads are dusty, holey and do not allow us to ride peacefully either in winter or summer. In this regard, we have five questions for the Minister. I have received written answers to these questions, but I must say that one of the five questions has been given a somewhat understandable and partially exhaustive answer, but the answers to the rest are somewhat incomplete. Finally, it is said that the government will decide immediately. As I understand it, the government has been discussing this issue, and I believe that today we will have exhaustive answers to all the questions. We hope that the Minister will also answer the question of whether he gave his consent with ease of heart that such a sum would be taken away from the roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U59	Urve Palo, Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U60	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I'll answer the question. I'll read the questions, then it'll be easier to figure out what I'm gonna answer. The first question: 'As Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, you are responsible for both transport and traffic management and traffic security, so it is incomprehensible why another minister is submitting a draft breaking down the organisation of road financing. Do you support this bill, which loses stability in the financing of road safety, and you want to go down in history as a minister responsible for roads, who cannot guarantee the means to maintain roads? 'The Government of the Republic approved, by order No 180 of 24 April 2014, the Programme of Action of the Government of the Republic for the period from 2014 to 2015, which designated the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure as the co-responsible for the draft law amending the Road Act. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications coordinated on 14 May. a draft amendment to the Road Act following the point of the action plan of the Estonian Reform Party and the Social Democratic Party coalition, which provides for increased budget flexibility, reducing the linking of revenue to specific items of expenditure. This amendment to the Road Act thus increases budgetary flexibility by reducing the linking of revenue to specific items of expenditure. To this end, the financing of road maintenance shall be decoupled from the planned receipts of excise duties on fuel. The volume of road maintenance funding is determined in the national budget strategy and the amounts allocated are fixed each year in the state budget. At the same time, I would like to stress that the road safety plan will be reviewed each year by the government anyway, because it is about the amounts resulting from the collection of excise duties on fuel that change from year to year, it is not possible to predict them exactly for seven years. These sums aren't set in stone one hundred percent anyway. The decoupling of road transport financing from excise duty does not automatically imply a reduction in funding, but provides flexibility, as necessary and as far as possible, to increase or reduce funding. I would like to remind you once again that excise duties on fuel will change from year to year, from quarter to quarter, and there is no way to predict certain amounts until 2020. It will be reviewed on a rolling basis earlier and will now be reviewed. The second question: 'Would you, and if so, as Minister for Transport and Roads, support the adoption of a budgetary strategy which envisages a reduction in road funding by EUR 25 million next year? ' The country's budget strategy until 2014 was approved by consensus in the Government of the Republic, therefore with my support. I would like to stress here that the Estonian state is small, there are few resources in all areas. I do not think that any minister, chairman of the Commission or member of the Commission can say that there is much or enough money in his field. We need more everywhere. That is why I believe that, even if, temporarily, there is some reduction in a certain area, whether due to the receipt of excise duty or due to small cuts, it will force us to look for smarter solutions. I think most of the people in this hall have been driving in the Mäo on a fancy bypass or have seen Kukruse bypass. It also raises the question of whether these funds have been invested specifically or not. In a situation where money is scarce, maybe the decisions that later raise questions and are smarter. Nevertheless, as Minister for Economic Affairs, when putting together the country's budget strategy, I was, of course, for the cut foreseen in the road maintenance from 2015 to be temporary and the road maintenance money from 2016 to increase again. For example, if you look at the country's budgetary strategy, which has been endorsed by the current government, you can see that in 2018 the money for tea is already close to EUR 300 million. This money will start to grow again with big steps from 2016. We have also agreed in the government that there will be no major overhaul of the current road plan until 2020 because the years are different. Later, it is planned to increase these funds and prepare all planned items to the required volume. I would like to point out here: it is very important, as Mrs Kokk said in her speech, that the funds that go to municipalities should not be reduced. I can assure you that next year there will be the same amount of money for the construction and repair of municipal roads as this year. So 28 million this year and next year's budget will have exactly the same amount. The dust-free road programme will also continue to be implemented. The third question: "Which sections or nodes of the road planned will not be built or repaired due to a cut of EUR 25 million? Can you confirm that the cuts will not be made at the expense of the quality and volumes of road maintenance? " The Government has approved the State Road Management Plan for the years 2014 to 2020 adopted on 16 October 2013, and as of now, this plan has not been amended. In the near future, the Director of the Road Administration will come to the Government of the Republic with his proposals. I very much hope that this time will come before Midsummer Day. It's been the Road Administration's willingness to come up with proposals. I looked into it this morning and found out that as of today, he has a plan to come before Midsummer, and then we can look at these alternatives more calmly. As I said, the road safety plan will be reviewed every year anyway, because excise duties will change. We already know that this year's excise duties will be lower than those expected last year. So the review is going on all the time. Now, if we look at the road plan, my preference is that we bring more external resources from the distant future, from 2018 and beyond, to the next year to reduce the temporary cut of one year. There's a chance, we need government approval. If the government approves of bringing these funds forward and using them next year, the cut we are talking about will become quite small, and it will really be such a matter of day-to-day wit to save these few millions from the total budget. I would remind you that the Road Administration's budget for this year is EUR 280 million. Even if we save $25 million, we are talking about a cut of less than 10% in the entire budget of the Road Administration. But if we bring these instruments forward, we're already talking about a few percent. Each company has the capacity to be a few percent more cost-effective a year. I can assure you that, in any case, no cuts will be made at the expense of the quality of tea care. Question 4: 'According to the explanatory memorandum to the draft submitted by the Minister for Finance, this allows the real need for road maintenance to be taken into account. Do you consider that the government's intention to reduce the funding of roads by EUR 25 million next year is due to a reduction in the real need for road maintenance? ' As I said, the road map until 2020 has been adopted, and I do not think there is any need to reduce its overall volume. I think that, by 2020, the overall amount will not decrease, we are talking about annual fluctuations. I guess I'm looking even more seriously at the government office to make sure there really aren't such pompochees as Paide or Kukruse's detour, but I think it's been taken more reasonable than years ago. After all, we are all interested in making reasonable use of the money. Whether it is European funds or whether it is Estonian money, taxpayers' money, it is all the money of our Estonian state. Sometimes you have to think about it ten times and then cut it once. The fifth question: 'The transport development plan for the years 2014-2020 provides that the road network is the most important part of the Estonian transport system and the development plan provides that by 2020, the share of state roads in bad or very bad condition must decrease by 10% (27% to 17%). It is clear that, as a result of decreasing funding, the road network situation will deteriorate and the development plan will have to be revised. How do you plan to change the development plan and when do you plan to submit a revised transport development plan? ' As I said, looking at the entire development plan up to 2020, there is no plan to change it because the funding fluctuates over the years and not over the whole period. This is the starting point. It is not intended to be changed in the long term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U61	There are questions for the Minister. Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U62	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I am pleased that you drew attention to the over-dimensioned road objects that have really been completed in Estonia in the recent past. My question, however, concerns the capacity of the Road Administration. As far as I know, according to the current system, where road savings are fixed with income from excise duty, the Road Administration has a very definite estimate that they must take advantage of. But it is not every year that this money has been used up, and it is the money that remains. How do you assess the ability of the Road Administration in a so-called backward perspective? Is this change that we are going to be working on tomorrow in this big hall justified? How do you think this will make our funding for tea more flexible and also more effective?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U63	Thank you. I really think that if the budget is more flexible and the organisation has not been given the amounts set aside in stone over a long period of time, it will also require greater wit to do the day-to-day work. On the other hand, there must, of course, be a certain degree of certainty, because these are huge investments and investments cannot be made unless you have any perspective in advance. In this sense, it is extremely important that there is a road-housing plan, just as it is in the Estonian country, on which to work. But the truth is the Road Administration has not been able to work every year on this plan. There are many reasons why an object cannot be completed or its completion is shifting forward, from the weather to the procurement challenge. At present, the construction of some objects has been hindered precisely because the Road Administration has started to demand compliance with the law, which means that the road material, or the fragment from which you are built, is subject to certain quality requirements. The regulation, where these quality standards are laid down, was adopted in 2010 but was not actually complied with in the following years. Now that they were followed, there were immediately entanglements and disputes. So you can see that the completion of several objects is shifting forward as a result. I would like to emphasise once again that we are not talking about a reduction of half or a third of the budget or the road map, etc. However, we are talking about some reduction. In the case of large projects, things are shifting a little from year to year anyway, external funds can be used a little sooner or a little later. I'm comforting everyone who's worried and thinks there's gonna be a huge cut next year, and the whole road construction's gonna stop. It's definitely not true, it's panic. And also, the cut in the way it looks like a number doesn't come, because in the road construction, things are going to shift in and out of the way.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U64	Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U65	Thank you. First of all, according to the reply: I am very impressed by how people who travel directly from Tallinn to Tartu or live in Tallinn always have Mäo's detour. Local people have to take off and take off there, but they'll see that 20 years from now, this intersection justifies itself. But now to the question. In today's reply and in your written reply, you have expressed such an opinion that you are still concerned about the roads and that there is not enough money for them. However, on 16 April, when we asked the Minister of Finance in this very hall, he said: 'The fact that we have had to put exactly 75% of the excise duty on the road a year has caused very clear problems. This obligation to spend is not in line with the needs of the roads... ' How do you think? Is it necessary, or is it really the way Jürgen Ligi has thought that too much money has been put in the roads?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U66	Thank you. Once again, it is very important that there is a road plan. It has to be a long-term perspective to know where they are going and what they are doing. It's the only way to plan and work. Road construction is not such a one-year-old or half-year-old thing, it's years of work. For one paragraph to be completed, years of preparatory work are being carried out. In this sense, it may not be wise to state with great certainty that one year will be 75%, and another year will be 75%. One year we may be putting on roads, I don't know, 72%, and in the second year 80% of the fuel excise, because the willingness to invest 80% is there. But in the first year, perhaps they are ready to allocate 72%, not 75%. So I don't see a big problem when this percentage changes a little over the years, when there's a decent road safety plan that will be monitored in the long run. That's all that matters.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U67	Jaan Apple Tree, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U68	Good manager! Good minister! First of all, I want to support your idea of borrowing and making investments with two hands. In a situation where the economy is not exactly on the rise, it would boost entrepreneurship and the economy a little. In the other direction, prices should certainly be lower now than in some time. I also think, as Tarmo Tamm said here earlier, that 9% is still very big money. If you hope that in 2018, there will be big porridges coming from somewhere, and so much money will come from, that everything we're taking off the roads now can be made up, then I wonder where that money comes from. In recent weeks, the government has constantly come from this Riigikogu with drafts that will increase the fixed costs in the state budget for the coming years. On the other hand, we will also increase the tax burden on business, which will certainly...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U69	Question?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U70	... doesn't increase entrepreneurship. Where does this optimism come from, that in 2018 there will be enough money in the state budget to eliminate all these disadvantages?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U71	This is due to the fact that, according to the national budget strategy, the annual increase in amounts in 2016 is 10 million euros more than in 2015, and this is how money has been spent every year. And if we are talking about this one-off cut and we divide this amount into even the years 2016 to 2020200, i.e. five years, then five million euros should be added each year to make up for the cut. This is certainly absolutely doable if you wish.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U72	Andrus Island, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U73	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. The Government's action programme for 2014-2015 states the following point: in order to increase the competitiveness of the important forest industry in Estonia, we will reduce the limit on the maximum mass of forest vehicles on large routes. The implementation of this point will not only depend on papermaking, but will also require additional investments, renovation and reconstruction of several bridges and road sections. It has been estimated that it will cost around 80 to 100 million. However, we know that next year road money will be cut by 25 million. Hence my question: when and how much are you planning to reduce the maximum mass limit and to what extent are you planning to make additional investments in roads in this regard?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U74	Thank you. To what extent are the maximum mass limits to be reduced? I cannot answer that question now, if you wish, then I can send you a reply later in writing. But it is clear that when concessions come, they are made on certain sections of the road, not across Estonia. Specify which roads may and may not be driven with higher tonnage. This will be done according to how the situation of roads and overpasses allows. If we look at which items are planned to be made this year and in the coming years, this list is very, very long. I'm not going to read about the road sections, the roads, the detours, the reconstructions that all come, regardless of the one-year cut. This list is a page A4. The work continues, I stress once again that the work will not stop. You will be improved and new overpasses will be built, the two roads of Väo will be built, the two roads of Väo traffic junctions will be completed, the two roads of Tallinn's Pärnu highway plus one road, the construction of the Kostivere collection roads and the section of the city of Sillamäe, the two roads of the Võõhu, the construction of the pass-by areas of Põltsamaa and the construction of the Ilmatsalu round, the circle of Viljandi, the construction of the bypass trails of the Sillamäe road. In short, you'll get tired before I can read it all out. Work's on, work's on.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U75	Thomas Tõniste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U76	Good manager! Good waitress! You repeatedly mentioned that lack of resources helps to be smarter and save. Here's a question: how much do you plan on cutting the payroll fund of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications to make employees better and smarter? But when it comes to the road plan, is it not sad that during your ministry, the road budget or funding will be reduced and you will set a higher amount for others? Aren't you afraid it's gonna work out the way you deal with the draft child support, where in the end, the IRL is the only one fighting for it, or like the former premier speaker against the road roller and rubber stamp policy, who, unfortunately, has now become very rubber stamp-like himself?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U77	Thank you. There were a lot of questions. I'm trying to start answering again, and if you forget anything, I'm sorry, ask again. As regards the savings or non-savings of the payroll fund of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, they are not the same thing. When I'm talking about a smart solution, I don't think the Road Administration should cut its wages. I think we need to keep our people in the country, both in the private sector and in the public sector, and make sure that people are motivated by both wages and jobs. I meant smarter solutions. That these very well-paid people, hopefully, will come up with smarter solutions for how to invest money in a better way, and we should not, in three, four, five years' time, give examples of what we can now say about Paide and Kukruse. I've got the whole question going for a little swim, but I'm gonna get back to myself right away. The questioner also spoke about child support and so on. I mean, when I speak as Minister for Economic Affairs, which I stand for, of course, I say once again: I stand for the road plan to be implemented in the way it has been adopted. What are the annual fluctuations, which will depend on the receipt of excise duties on fuel, these fluctuations must be taken into account by both the Public Road Administration and the operators. These fluctuations are every year. I very much hope that, next year, when the new coalition agreement is put together, the Social Democrats will be one side, and then we will definitely monitor the funding provided by the Road Administration and the amounts that will go to the road by 2016 and beyond. When the country's budget strategy was now put together in spring, I stood for these sums to increase, they are now written there. I very much hope that the next minister, whether it is me or it is someone else, will stand for these sums to remain at least as large as they are there, or to grow even more. And, as I said, if the new coalition, or the existing coalition, were to decide to make the road to Tallinn faster and to borrow it, which I think is a serious discussion place, then even more of the European Union's funds could be released, which could be diverted if we wanted to. So, in fact, we can also talk about the fact that road-saving money up to 2020 may increase, not decrease, if there is political will to do so. All the options are on the table.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U78	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U79	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I guess we've all tried to be statesmen in this hall. Juhan has probably tried to be a statesman, and I have tried to be a statesman, but it hasn't always worked out well. I dare say that if we have financed these over-dimensioned traffic nodes, such as the intersection of Rakvere-Halinga, Tallinn and Narva highways, the Mäo knot or the Tartu road leading from Tallinn to Kosen, we have not used every cent of the taxpayer in the best way. It would probably have been possible to make much better use of this money. I agree with the Minister of Finance, Jürgen Ligi, who has said that road builders have sometimes been encouraged by the obligation to spend money. Now my question: how do you see future developments? Will the financing of major projects continue as it is today? Will Estonia be hidden behind the plank, or would it be possible, for example, to build these planks by the railway of the city, where the noise level is much higher than that of the forests?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U80	Thank you. I agree with the questioner's discussion. I have nothing else to add here but that I personally see that there really is no point in making objects that, on the basis of some estimates, are oriented to the fact that in ten years' time the population of Estonia will double and the traffic rate will increase accordingly. Well, that won't be too bad! That is why there is sometimes a question of the minds of the decision-makers and where this optimism comes from. Yeah, I'd like to see more sense, more peasantry in a good way, even when we're talking about road construction. We invest in it, and we must do it in the way that is feasible, and in which people also understand that it is really in their favor, not the other way around.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U81	Tarmo Pine, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U82	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary! I'm listening here and I'm thinking that if you know a little bit of public finances, we barely have a living area that is entirely and adequately funded. We have repeatedly mentioned our road plan, which is likely to be based on real financial opportunities. I wonder how much it's different from the real need. Does the Ministry have that kind of information? How much damage does the removal of excise duty do, or by asking the other way around, to what extent did the removal of excise duty ensure that the real need was met?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U83	Thank you. It is difficult to answer the need in one way or another. This depends on how quickly we want to do something, whether we want to have a four-line road to Narva, Pärnu and Tartu and so on. Broadly speaking, this funding, which is intended to maintain the pavement, is important. I hope that specialists have done the right calculations and based themselves on the right assumptions. If the money we have planned now continues to maintain the pavement, there will be no situation where the roads are suddenly in such a bad situation that we must start rebuilding them. I want to hope that such a peasant's mind has already been followed in the road plan. That's why I'm saying that if we follow this road plan until 2020, in a broader perspective, we should be on a pretty good schedule with our roads. It does not, of course, include such large investments to make a four-line Tallinn road right away. It is a separate path and needs additional resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U84	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U85	Thank you. Dear Minister, In fact, it is nice for some of our colleagues to say that they are statesmen and have managed to build very large buildings. Of course, there are some railway nodes that are very expensively constructed, but stand empty, there are large road nodes where very few cars are moving. The statesmen have, of course, had these great buildings completed, but you, as a countrywoman, wear the shoulders to make sure that all these highway nodes and roads are in order. Last week there was a good conference in the conference hall on the shadow economy, and it said that there is a huge loss of excise revenue in Estonia. As a minister, do you think we should pay more attention to the shadow economy, precisely to the introduction of a fuel-like product that is being washed, to the country's lack of excise duty and rather to ask for more VAT money back? The more excise duty is paid, the more money will be left for the roads and there will be more to raise child benefits.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U86	Thank you. As regards the issue of the shadow economy and tax evasion at all, of course, when it is possible to obtain additional resources by reducing the shadow economy, this is the first thing that the state must always do. This is a question for the Tax and Customs Board and the Minister for Finance of what opportunities they see there and whether what you have talked about has now been raised as a problem. If so, of course, it must be dealt with so that an honest person who honestly pays taxes and does his job would not be in a worse position than one who does not. This is the duty of the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U87	Thank you. There are no further questions for the Minister. I'm opening negotiations. Aivar Chef, on behalf of the inquisitors, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U88	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very much. I thank the Minister, who tried very hard to answer our questions. I really wouldn't want to be her tonight. Some of the points raised questions, and the topics remained in the air. As we discussed here, 25 million from one end seems to be small money, but 28 million from the municipalities to repair and maintain roads again seem to be very large money. In the meantime, it seems like the match comes with our own money, we take 25 million, and then in the next few years, road money will grow by 10 million, as if it had grown anyway, and in 2018 we suddenly have as much money as we do now. Or this debate, whether there must be a noise wall or whether an overpass is too proud or not. In our country of Estonia, it sometimes seems that we are stuck. We're always talking about some kind of investment, but I always have questions about the same Rail Baltic railroad. It is shouted that there will be passenger trains with a speed of 240 kilometres per hour. All statesmen who sit here should walk outside Estonia. In my opinion, in the last ten years, in most European countries where railways have been renovated or built, iron roads have not been made so slowly. We also have very nice orange trains, but they could drive at 100 miles an hour. Perhaps there would be a lot less buses and cars on the Tartu highway if the train really reached Tallinn in an hour or a half, not in two hours, just as it is currently driving just because the infrastructure does not suffer otherwise. We must admit that Estonia is as poor and as rich as it is. It is clear that taxpayers' money has failed to make more investments than they have done. Today, the Minister proposed as an option to borrow for large investments. Being an entrepreneur myself, I believe that perhaps this is the time when, in order to improve infrastructure, a proper loan should be taken and a public road network built, both the rail network and the road network. This certainly cannot be done in one year and must be done in a very reasonable way. As life has shown, if an entrepreneur sees that there is a lot of money, then prices will also rise and construction will become more expensive than it should actually be. I hope that the current provisional government will at least come along with this idea. Well, it's gonna be a decision about what he's gonna be like, but at least the idea's been blown up. We have always been told that the state must not borrow a cent, and that it is criticised for Spain and Portugal. However, if you drive around there by car or train and see that all the infrastructure has been developed with European money, or watch the Portuguese state recover quietly, you think that maybe they have not been so stupid. They've been going to the bottom of these difficult moments, but now they're on their way up. It has been said here for a long time that there will certainly be tea money in 2016 and that in 2015 money from European Union funds can be brought a little forward. I just want to stress here that the money coming from the European Union is a fixed amount. Regardless of whether we spend it in 2015... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U89	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. I think that in this Chamber everyone understands the need to finance you properly, there is no doubt about that. You said that the funding of local roads will not be reduced next year, the project of dust-free roads will continue, etc. As far as Tallinn's roads are concerned, what is there to deny, as Kaia Iva said, maybe we are not looking at the whole. But a few years ago, I was driving there with a Luxembourger who, when he saw this limestone noise barrier, said that their rich country couldn't finance it all. So, I guess those stupid things have been done. How are you satisfied with things as of today on this highway and do you have positive messages for the people of Central and South Estonia in view of the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U91	Thank you. I am not really satisfied with the speed of building the Tartu-Tallinn road. When we talk about Estonia's regional policy, we cannot be satisfied because we see that people move out of the regions. In order to live outside Tallinn and Tartu, jobs are actually needed. However, if you are able to work in the city and the roads are decent, it will, of course, also develop regional policy in a wider sense and life in the countryside. Tallinn-Tartu road is one of the roads that connects the southern and northern parts of Estonia, and if this road were four lines, security would also be guaranteed there. We're moving forward at a slow pace. As I said, state resources are limited, and there is no such possibility that we will simply add substantial money from the budget in the coming years. That is why I think it would be a serious point to consider going forward with the Tallinn-Tartu highway at a faster pace and, for example, making a road section from Tallinn to Paide by 2020. From Tallinn to Paiden, the traffic load is over 70,000 cars per day, from there it will fall to 6,000 people. I don't mean to say there shouldn't be a four-way road from there, but the first step should be the road to Paiden. Why can't the state of Estonia consider borrowing to invest quickly in turning the road between Tallinn and Paide into a four-rower? In total, this section of the road, which has not been completed, would cost EUR 200 million and around EUR 70 million could be obtained from the European Union's structural resources. So for our part, we should add 130 million. I'm talking about round sums of money, of course. I think it's a serious point. Personally, I am in favour of this approach in order to make the road faster and not stall. The current road safety plan does not foresee this Paiden road.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U92	Tiina Lock-Tramberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. My question also concerns noise barriers. I understand that along with road construction, such a thing as a noise barrier has been discovered, which is hugely expensive and, frankly, not very environmentally friendly. Is this our perspective that we are going to travel through tunnels in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U94	Thank you. We don't have many tunnels because we don't have mountains, but the noise barrier does give us a little tunnel feeling, that's true. Allegedly, where noise barriers have been made, they meet certain conditions and requirements. However, it is often a question of whether these requirements have not been set too far ahead, that if we ever have a lot of road users in 20 to 30 years' time. Do you have to build them right now? I owe you an answer here because I'm not a specialist in this field. I would very much like to hope that the specialists have made these decisions. However, I also have questions left in the air; I have not received proper answers regarding these great detours, whether on Kukruse or Paide. Every time I drive there, it's like there's supposed to be a huge settlement and a lot of cars, but there's no one to see. You're wondering if there's an emergency in the country, and I don't know that I'm the only one driving here. It makes me feel weird. And when, as a member of the Committee on Economic Affairs, I asked when we had several hearings on the subject of road safety, the answers were something that I did not like very much. They said, yes, these facilities are over-dimensioned, we're learning, didn't know how to reverse the architects' dreams. It doesn't make any sense. The fact that Paide's person might say that it is also nice for him to take on and off there, but I still think that all of this could have been done cheaper and more rationally. We have to take into account that we are building these detours with the support of European Union funds, putting on the taxpayers' money for our part, but we have to support and repair them ourselves. After all, this is the fixed cost that is actually coming to the Estonian state. Every road we build, every viaduct should always consider whether it will be fit for us in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U95	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U96	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! In one way, I am trying to understand that the government has a huge financial deficit and that money is being saved wherever it is possible. At the same time, taking money off the roads is a huge economic folly. If you don't get repaired in time, it's gonna get more expensive in the future. Why should you do so economically? In addition, this means that at least 500 people will lose their jobs next year, which means that the state will lose taxes and people will probably have to look for jobs from outside Estonia. If you do not understand how much this EUR 25 million is to be taken away, then I can say that the entire amount allocated to local authorities for road repairs is only 28 million. These are more or less equal amounts. Obviously, the problem is that the government is trying to bring the real situation together by law, as already 50% of the excise duties on fuel collected in Estonia go down on roads. And since the law provides for 75%, I think this is the main reason. Why are you not talking about the real situation that already 50% of the money collected from fuel excise duties is going down Estonian roads?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U97	You said EUR 25 million was a large sum. Of course, it depends on where to look. One million is also a large sum, depending on the context of this look. I emphasised that the entire budget of the Road Administration is EUR 280 million. It is simply a message sent to society in some way, as if almost all the money on the roads was taken away, and it has caused a huge panic. Of course, it is very important that the road safety plan is followed, as I said. Annual fluctuations do not have such an impact from this point of view. And, as I emphasised, my vision is that we bring structural funds into the next year. In that case, we would talk about a very small cut next year. But this can be confirmed, of course, after the Government of the Republic has discussed the subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U98	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U99	Thank you. I hope that the road plan and all this issues will be discussed in the government before Midsummer Day. I cannot say the exact date, depending on what the agenda for the cabinet is and whether the question fits there, but it will certainly come up in the coming weeks. So far, the government office has not dealt with the issue of road construction, but I will certainly bring to the table, among other things, the proposal to build the road of Tallinn to Paiden at a faster pace.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U100	Thank you. Dear Minister, It could increase, but unfortunately you're reducing it. First of all, the talk of bringing euro money forward is not very convincing, because if you did bring euro money forward and that 75% would be full, they would go into that calculation, then there would be no need to process this bill or change the law at all. In fact, you're planning on clearly putting less money on the road. You read here an impressive list of where the money isn't taken away. You say you don't take off the local roads, you don't take off the running road. So there are very few ways to get the money. The availability of euro money is very limited. Finally tell me where you're gonna take that money from! At least tell me what kind of tea these are.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U101	I would like to stress once again that if the government approves of the plan to use structural funds more quickly, this is possible, because next year it is planned to mobilise EUR 17 million of public funds for the so-called TNT routes financed by European Union funds. It's just that funds don't make as much money as they need, and then they put public money in it. This can be replaced, for example, by European Union funds next year. This, of course, means that by 2018 there will be less money from the funds and then a refund should be made. This is a decision-making place, but I think it makes sense to use these funds faster. In my opinion, the possibility of speeding up the road in Tallinn could be considered, taking out a loan and then not just following the road plan, but even forcing it. That would be my suggestion.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U102	Jaak Aaviksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U103	Good minister! I'm listening to your answers, and it's pretty hard to understand what your own position is with regard to road maintenance and road construction. On the one hand, you have repeatedly said that the road plan is a good plan, it is intended to be fully implemented and nothing is being taken away. On the other hand, you and your coalition mates have made quite serious criticism of the Road Administration: over-dimensioned and expensive intersections, tenders stretching, road construction requirements have not been complied with, and if they are followed, the delays in procurement will become an even more serious problem. Is there any way to make this clear? First of all, is this road map really the kind of document you want to implement in full? And despite your promises to increase the funds for road maintenance by 2018, a simple comparison shows that the funds planned for road maintenance in the budget strategy are constantly decreasing, rather than increasing, compared to GDP.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U104	Thank you. If we look at the country's budgetary strategy, which is updated every year, every spring, it is already foreseen that in 2018 road maintenance costs will be EUR 295 million. 295 million! If we look at the old plan, which has been confirmed earlier, and you annoyed, as if there were any cuts made compared to it, then according to this plan, in 2018 these costs would have been EUR 294 million. So that difference is... No, I'm sorry, I was just looking at it wrong. I can't find the number right now, but I looked before, and I think the difference was EUR 5 million. What do I mean by that? According to the current RES, the amounts to be raised from 2016 onwards will be increased. I see you're shaking your head, but it is. Looking at the country's budgetary strategy, next year there will be a cut of EUR 25 million, but starting in 2016, road-saving money will increase by EUR 10 million each year and reach nearly EUR 300 million by 2018. It's a public strategy, you can look up there calmly. The question was what I support. I say once again that, broadly speaking, I support that the road map should go ahead so that we can talk broadly about the completion of this plan by 2020. Speaking of smart solutions, I mean that it is really planned to build a lot of roads, overpasses, etc., but every time you look at whether it makes sense to do exactly what was planned in 2013 or 2012, or whether time has gone on and something may be more sensible to do more intelligently.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U105	Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U106	Thank you. Good minister! The development of bicycle paths has long been in the way of the real need over the years. Now the government has decided to place a security burden on cyclists, preparing a bill that will make wearing a helmet compulsory. If road savings are reduced, the maintenance of gravel-coated streets and dusty roads will also be reduced, while the disease of respiratory diseases will increase year by year. Is it in this light to be afraid that a bill of the same kind about wearing dust masks will soon come from the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U107	Like Singapore? I hope the other half of the question was a joke. But if you answer the first part, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has said that it does not support the Ministry of the Interior's proposal to make bicycle helmet mandatory.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U108	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U109	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good minister! You have repeatedly mentioned the possibility of borrowing for the four-line construction of the Tartu highway in Tallinn. This idea has also been once before, ten years ago and has received acute criticism, although perhaps by now the road to Mäoni would have been completed and the loan would have been repaid on more favourable terms. But that's it. My question is this: have you done anything to do this, you have talked about it with your coalition partner, you have written your first thoughts on paper, or has it just been said as a dream in this Chamber today?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U110	Jüri Morozov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U111	Thank you. Madam Secretary! I am surprised to hear that both the heirs and some of the questioners are very concerned about how more money can be spent. In this light, your proposal to do more with less money through smart solutions is quite sympathetic. But I still have a problem and I want to ask for the people who live in some remote area and may not be able to get on this great Tallinn highway in the course of their lives. They still have to drive, and they do it in their own neighborhood, where there are country roads, but they're covered with gravel. They're fine, but they're covered in gravel and they're dusty. Is there a step backwards in this respect, whether the part of dust-free roads in kilometres will be abandoned or will it remain exactly the same as last year?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U112	Thank you. As far as dust-free roads are concerned, EUR 4 million have been planned for them this year, it is the 'Estonian road to dust-free by 2030' programme, and next year EUR 7.9 million will be planned. So that's going to increase. For the sake of the stenogram, I also say the figures that Mr Aaviksoo asked me about, I found them in the meantime. Let me just say the exact figures. The country's budget strategy, which was carried out in March of this year, foresees that there will be around EUR 300 million in road maintenance, EUR 294650000. The previous amount from last autumn was 308 million. So the difference between the current national budget strategy and that foreseen in the autumn is already less than 10 million. That's not a big difference. It's not too hard to trade more money to get back to the same level. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U113	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U114	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! I would like to ask about the country's budgetary strategy. You certainly know what the experience of previous governments has been in planning road-saving money according to the country's budgetary strategy. Is it an old experience, or is it now a new opportunity to secure stable funding for roads, that the budget strategy has a growth rhythm?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U115	This amount of money has still increased year after year and, above all, because more excise duties on fuel have been seen. According to this, these growths are planned. We hope that more excise duties will be collected every year, but this small increase is foreseen every year. In this sense, we must say that we also follow the old custom of raising the amount of money that goes every year to maintain tea.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U116	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U117	Thank you. Dear Minister, I am somewhat surprised that it is you, as Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, who are so eager to fight to reduce the financing of roads. In fact, I do not understand at all why there is a need to reduce road financing by 25 million. If the Prime Minister in front of the Riigikogu announced that the state's costs are covered with revenue and 40 million are over, 25 million of this 40 million could be diverted peacefully to the financing of roads. Why did the government decide to increase the flexibility of the state budget at the expense of road funding? There are other expenditures related to revenue in the budget, such as unemployment insurance, social tax, pollution charges, or whatever there are a number of them. Why was the funding of roads chosen?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U118	I can tell you why not. I hope that you have not just proposed to untie unemployment or health insurance. As I said on the financing of roads, it may be 72% in one year, with 80% in the second year. The amounts of funding for roads will vary year after year anyway, they are not exactly within a certain percentage for the same reasons that I mentioned earlier. It is impossible to predict precisely both the collection of excise duties and how the objects will be achieved. There are shifts every year anyway.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U119	Juhan Parts, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U120	Thank you. I listen to these answers and I must first say that Ansip and I were still statesmen. The problem now is that we are breaking up a long-term system designed to prevent the road network from falling down hopelessly. Having made the current road plan myself, I can tell you that the real need is greater. It's just a seal story, it's not true. But if I'm thinking about the government union problem right now, I have two questions. Given that you do not tend to have a mandate to make such a long-term decision, maybe we can find a temporary solution if you need to get your accounting table together. We will then temporarily break an earlier long-term solution while you are making the budget. Would that be possible? I think there is certainly a willingness in Parliament, because I do not believe that any subsequent government will make this difficult decision that has been in force for 20 years...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U121	Question, Juhan Parts! Time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U122	That was the first question. Secondly, however, I would like to ask about this EUR 25 million. When and on which roads will EUR 25 million be specifically taken away?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U123	Thank you. As far as statesmanship is concerned, yes, you started this subject. I don't consider the great detours built under your leadership for all our money to be very statesmanly. But that's it. I guess everyone has a sense of statesmanship. So the score is 1: 1. But when it comes to funding roads next year, I feel a little bit like a parrot here. I say again that if we decide in the government office that we are talking about in the speech that is now giving rise to, because such decisions concerning the redeployment of the road plan will be adopted by the government office as a result of the debate to bring forward the financing of the Structural Funds, then there will be no mention of a significant cut next year. I can't even answer where the money's taken from, maybe they won't.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U124	... in a good way, we spend, we invest in 2015 or evenly until 2020, this money does not grow. Here is the question: if we now untie the road money from the fuel excise, who will then guarantee that no one else will be in the ministerial chair in 2016 and will not say that this year should be reduced by 25 million more and in 2017. In local governments as well as in everyone else, it is a fear that this amount will still only affect one year. It may always make sense that at some point other investments and other work are needed. However, we cannot give that certainty or guarantee. However, if we look at the local roads, here is the question, as Jüri asked, that yes, 28 million to local authorities now, in any case, both the Minister and the Prime Minister have said that it will not decrease. But there are also national routes in all municipalities. And now, if we look at the fact that the road safety plan does not reduce money for road maintenance, we do not reduce money for municipalities, and we can use European Union money for major projects, I have the fear that the money for roads in the countryside will disappear, and there is a separate line of dust free roads, which is not within this 280 million. But I wish the Minister strength and strength! You have at least one vote in the Riigikogu: if you would like to borrow a loan for infrastructure development, I will definitely support you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U125	Andrus Ansip, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U126	Mr President! Honourable Riigikogu! That is the case with the coalition and the opposition. If you're in a coalition, you're talking about budgetary balance and how the principle of budgetary balance should be incorporated into our constitution. And as soon as you're on the opposition bench, you're about to start talking about how you could take on more money in an unreasonable manner, and your hands just keep rising, but you can take on more credit. But it doesn't change that. Probably in the future, the coalition, being in government, will continue to have some thoughts and other thoughts in opposition. It wasn't that, but it was the one that brought me to the speaker's desk. I was provoked to come here in Inara. Yeah, I think it's the government's fault that we have multiple traffic nodes overdimmed. We have very beautiful roads in Estonia. I went to Võrumaa this weekend, went to Rõuge. Excellent, beautiful teas! And while you're coming to Tallinn, it's like the war has just ended. In Swaziland, there are no such streets in Africa. Perhaps there is something similar in the poorer villages of Zambia, as we have here in Tallinn on some streets. But in general, yeah, we're in good shape at times, sometimes it's like Chicago, it's really good, and then it's really bad again. We have not used taxpayers' money in the best way during the last nine years, either, as my Prime Minister. But it's about Inara. Monuments have been built on the roads, but I don't think the Koidula border station is a monument. Basically, this is a very necessary building. Yes, there may also be discussions about whether everything that was built needed to be built, but basically it's a right and honest thing. For me, this is, above all, the place where border and customs procedures are carried out. Until the Koidula border station was completed, there were trades in customs, i.e. liquid fuel, in the city centre of Tartu. I remember two pretty good fires from the last ten years right there next to the tank cars. On one occasion a large railway course was burned, with at least 17 layers of robenoid laid on the roof, and the pillar of fire and smoke was seen 20 kilometres from Tartu. It all happened right there near the wagons. The second time the station building was on fire, and again there were wagons nearby. The Koidula border station is also a matter of safety for the residents of Tartu. These trains no longer need to stand in Tartu in order to carry out border and customs procedures. And this means that the city of Tartu will no longer have to fear that any of these eshelons could be blown up by a fire that exploded from a random fire. This is a great value, and that is why I dare not consider the Koidula border station to be the monument and personal ambition of someone's politician. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U127	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U128	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, In one way, I congratulate the former Prime Minister, Andrus Ansip, that he dares to admit the mistakes that were made during his reign. These overpasses were built, Andrus, during your reign, you were the Prime Minister. But I'm sorry you didn't admit that during your reign, the money was cut off for local governments to keep track. For example, in 2008 it was EUR 40 million and in 2014 it was EUR 28 million. This is the place where you should think economically. If you don't repair you in time and invest in it in time, the road repair will be more expensive in the future. You can also be repaired with loan money, which makes economic sense if you repair on time and pay loan interest, then ultimately we are winners. Everyone wins: entrepreneurs, people, tourists visiting the country, who get a good impression of the country. That's not the solution if we go back to tea money. A simple calculation shows that next year, if EUR 25 million of tea money is taken away, 500 people will be unemployed. It is not possible to create a tea company if the state behaves that way. After all, the only stable subscriber to the repair is the state, while many others in Estonia still order the repair. What's the point of setting up a company, knowing that if the country is hard, the state will divert the money and put the road repair aside. I'm saying it's a huge economic nonsense, and against this stupidity, I'm fighting as much as I can anyway. Now let's talk about how it really is. After all, 75% of the fuel excise collected in Estonia should still be collected on roads; in reality, less than 50% of the amount collected on fuel excise is used for repair. Yes, the law seems to be being enforced, because this difference is covered by means coming from the European Union, but that is not the purpose of this law. The Minister said here that the collection of excise duties on fuel is growing steadily. However, I can say that if local authorities are allocated 10% of the total fuel excise money, this year it was EUR 1.2 million less than in 2013. So it is not worth creating this illusion that the amount of excise duties on fuel will increase every year. This is not the case because this year's amount is less than the amount of the previous year and no one can promise that the amount of excise duties on fuel will be higher in 2015 than this year. There is no point in creating such illusions! It has been said several times here, and the Prime Minister has also said that the Road Administration cannot rationally use this money, so that it is as if 25 million are over. Let's give this money to the local governments! We are compensating local governments for the debt that the government has generated because, as an average of three years, funds were allocated to local governments for road maintenance purposes by 6.5%. This resulted in a deficit, which in turn resulted in additional costs. We're going to end the confrontation between the state and the municipality, because we all live in the territory of some local government. And to claim that there is a madhouse in Tallinn, but in other municipalities the roads are okay, I say, call me to the municipality, where all roads are okay. Andrus Ansip could also invite Tartu to the city and show you where the roads are. I can show you guys where I'm ashamed to walk. So these roads are not in order anywhere, and if we do not pay proper attention to this issue, I do not think we will act as statesmen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U129	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U130	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I had no intention of coming here today to talk, but Mr. Andrus provoked me. By way of introduction, I would like to say that the roads in Setumaa, for example, are relatively good and in good condition compared to other roads in Estonia. Why is that? This is because our previous temporary government met up with the rural municipalities in Setumaa and directed special funds there, because it was very difficult for many Setus to travel after the control line was established. Couldn't drive straight to Petseri, and all the road conditions were bad. Thanks to these financial allocations, Setumaa's teas are now relatively good and should indeed say that perhaps even better than the average. I now come to the issues you, Andrus, talked about at the Koidula railway border crossing, etc. It was one of Estonia's largest constructions, and all the South-Easters thought that after it was completed, we would also get jobs there. But there isn't really a job in a lot of departments. For example, in the phytosanitary department, just as white socks were used there, white socks can continue there because there is no work there. I do not know what has not been done, whether the Government of the Republic has not concluded certain agreements with Russia or what it is about, but trade is not working. But, of course, we have much greater security. Now for the excise duty. It's like we're used to spending 75% of the fuel excise on the roads. In turn, a certain part of it will be received by local authorities. But we should not forget that the more control we have over the total fuel turnover, the more excise duties on fuel will be received. As I mentioned in my question, last week was a very good conference on the shadow economy, and it pointed out how much excise duties the Estonian state still misses. We can no longer talk about bringing purely this kind of physical fuel or secret alcohol or cigarettes to Estonia, because these things are no longer measurable, it has become very difficult. In order to avoid excise duty, a fuel-like product is introduced into Estonia, washed and put on sale. The Estonian state misses excise duty and, even worse, the Estonian state is cheated on VAT. So someone else will have to work to ensure that cheaters can cheat VAT from the Estonian state for their own benefit. But it's a good thing you, Mr. Andrus, have visited Setumaa, Rõuge, Võrumaa. If God gives you health, maybe you'll come to Seto Kingdom. Thanks!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U131	Andrus Ansip, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U132	It seems that the addressee of the inquiry no longer wishes to appear. I will conclude the negotiations and this item on the agenda. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U133	A free microphone follows. Anyone who wants to talk is gonna check in after the hammer hit. Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U134	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I myself wondered what we should talk about today, but luckily one of the voters met. And the voter said that, hey, Viktor, tell your colleagues the right thing about you making all kinds of decisions, taking them by a majority who has voted against, but now look at what you have adopted, how many decisions have made for the better of the people's lives, and how many decisions that have made people's lives more difficult, worse. I tried to take a look at the work programme this week. Oh, yeah, I was starting to wonder if we were doing the right thing. Take, for example, this work capacity reform. So far, it was looked at on the one hand, and now it will be looked at on the other. So far, the number of people missing their feet was counted, and now they're going to count how many legs there are left, and they're going to think they're going to get another number. In fact, the situation should be exactly the same, whether you're looking from the one side or looking from the other side. Whether the glass is half empty or half full, whichever side you're looking at, it shouldn't matter. The reform is being carried out here because of reform. Hundreds of people are gonna be working on this thing, reorganizing things. Somehow, a couple of Polls ordered a risk assessment. A couple of Poll's representatives read us their assessment for an hour and a half in the Committee on Social Affairs; they had at least six risk points for each point, but no solution. The only thing that sounded like it was suspicious. And now it's like redeploying furniture, not just in the apartment, but in one house, they take the roof, they take the whole floor from some houses, and they move around to another house, thinking that things are gonna get better than that. If we read one way or the other, will it suddenly become money to pay for the aids? If this money so far wasn't available, the corresponding funds will usually run out in October, where will the money now come from? They say doctors start working differently, we start buying in this awesome service, the work ability assessment service. In fact, the same doctors still have to work, you teach them one way or the other, they still find that hand or leg missing, and it doesn't grow because of this reform. It is said that now we are creating more jobs so that people with disabilities also have jobs. Hey, folks, there's not enough jobs for people without trees! Let us see if we have made sure that people have work to earn their own bread. What have we done for this so far? We do not take into account at all that the most important thing is the small business. Small businesses actually maintain the country, pay taxes, work for themselves, for their families, relatives, and acquaintances, hire a servant. But we're harassing them the way we know how. We still passed the 1000-euro bill on the second round. This week we are losing the €64 car compensation, which was the only way for many people to go to work anywhere in the country where there is no job, to go to the city where there are jobs. Now they are not paid car compensation, and people simply do not go to work for this salary. And we hope that now that we begin to appreciate not the lack of work capacity for disabled people, but the capacity for work that remains will, to some extent, change things. You know, we have to think that sometimes it may be a positive phenomenon if some decisions are not taken. If there are 50 people voting in favour and 40 voting against, then there is sufficient reason to consider that, suddenly, voting against is still a positive sign. We are talking here about the need to send a good colleague, Mr Ansip, to the European Commission. Listen, I think Andrus Ansip is the best member of the Riigikogu, always sitting there asking questions and giving a speech. When a wise and educated person comes to speak on the remote, he is one of the few Members who sits and listens. Let's not send him away! He is a very good Member. If he was Prime Minister, he was intimidated by the children that if you didn't fall asleep Ansip would come and eat the bread, but as a Member of Parliament, he would be in his place. So less bad decisions! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U135	Andrus Ansip, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U136	Mr President! Good Riigikogu! Of course I'm a good person. But that's not what I wanted to talk about. I want to talk or am forced to talk about the same subject I spoke about last time in an open microphone. Not from a declaration of economic interests, but from our e-state and how friendly our e-state is to its citizen. Let's take the hypothetical situation that one morning there will be a letter from Eesti Post in your mailbox. The letter states that AS Eesti Post's customs terminal is a postal delivery that has arrived in your name and requires customs formalities to be completed. There is also the sender's name, which is familiar to you, the country is in the United States, the shipment of the storage notice No LC and then there are nine numbers, the US, the date and the letter itself. 'We hereby inform you of the possibilities of declaring a postal consignment. First, the completion of the declaration through AS Eesti Post. 'Great. For the customs declaration by AS Eesti Post, please send a document certifying the cost of the goods, invoice or online order to our e-mail address Customs Agency@mail.ee. ' I didn't order anything, no ID. It's just the letter. Which means this isn't gonna work. Option 2: a natural person, completing the declaration at the nearest customs office, can only be selected if the value of the postal consignment is less than EUR 1000. You don't know what this shipment is worth. Third: natural and legal persons, electronic formatting of the declaration in the online environment, i.e. e-Tax Board, e-Customs, etc. Fourthly, a natural person, digitally signed passenger declaration rdeklar@emta.ee, can only be selected if the value of the postal consignment is less than EUR 1000. Yeah, well, you usually read this message front and back, read it several times, top down, left to right, but you don't understand. The simple person will then take and call the Estonian Post. The Estonian Post is asked: what goods did you order? I have not ordered anything; perhaps older relatives have sent a gift for the birth of a child. Let it be said that all the attendants in this case have been very kind people. Then they'll give you a new phone number. A new good person opens this package, takes a picture, reports the contents of the package: $119 dress and $11.80 chocolate. People have gone to a expensive store, bought a six - month - old baby a precious dress and expensive chocolate for their parents, and how much crap about all this. You go to the Internet site where you were led, you investigate, and you find out that for 6 euros and 50 cents you can trust someone else with this thing. But you won't find it where to find him. If you once find out what you have to do after a long exchange of letters, then you forget that within an hour you should let someone know that you have already paid 28 euros. Yeah, well, the first letter already said that it was necessary to produce a document certifying the cost and this letter to complete the customs declaration under a simplified procedure. But in an e-state, the state could know that such a letter has been sent to someone, and an ID card could be enough, but no. And if you don't pass on information about your bill to the customs office within an hour, you're gonna wait for something to happen again, silly. But it won't. When people finally realize that it's a real dork who's got the package, they're gonna act on their own, and after a while, you're really gonna get a message in the mailbox that you're gonna get this package from the post office. I ask whether it must be the case in Estonia that for a small baby dress and chocolate you have to pay some kind of customs duty, much inappropriate, you have to keep correspondence, declare, send to the state information that the country actually already has...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U137	Do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U138	If you will. But I can't give you that. I'm talking without permission right now...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U139	I'll give you three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U140	I'm not gonna use it for three minutes. We are proud of our e-governance. But from time to time, this pride of ours goes on to be arrogance, and we think as the Supreme Grand Dwarf thought it was, and to want it to be somehow different, is characteristic of those who, in their spirit limits, do not realize that it is as it is. Maybe it doesn't have to be that these things are as complicated as they are right now. I believe that these dear relatives, who wanted to please, also grieve when they start reading this verbatim or watching the transmission (they do not do so fortunately), because they did not want to cause anyone any totally disproportionate time and resource costs in their letter, they wanted to express their joy and pleasure. I have an appeal to the members of the Riigikogu: think, when I am no longer in this room, think of the positions of a simple person, from the viewpoints of what this country should be designed to be. The current country, at least in this particular case, is too complicated for a person.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-09_U141	There's no more calls. Today's trial is over. Thank you. Closure of the sitting at 17.11.
