ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-09_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, We will begin the Tuesday session of the first working week of the VIIIth plenary session of the Riigikogu. We'll start as soon as it's a little quieter. Thank you. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-09_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a question to be made by the Centre Party Group to Mr Helmen Küt, Minister for Social Protection, and it is about old-age pensions. As we know, the stratification of pensioners is increasingly causing problems in Estonia. While current pensions are still of relatively similar size, in the near future, the gap will become multiple. In particular, the importance of the insurance unit increases in determining the annual retirement pension. This means that public old-age pensions are increasingly dependent on the amount of social tax paid for a person, i.e. the amount of his or her salary. If, for example, social tax is paid on average wages, the annual coefficient is 1,0 and a decent pension is guaranteed for the average wage recipient. If a person earns a lower than average salary, the coefficient is less than 1.0 and a person with a low wage has to work for several years to complete it. As a result, a large number of socially committed low-paid people, such as kindergarten educators, nurses, teachers, cultural workers and many others, must also accept a small pension. We think this is unfair. Our key question for the Minister is this: why do you consider it fair that a person's contribution to work is reflected in the amount of income, and is this system to be changed in the near future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-09_U3	Thank you. There are no other proposals. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have accepted an inquiry. If it complies with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu shall forward it to the addressee without delay. Now, ladies and gentlemen, please do the presence check! 94 members of the Riigikogu are absent.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-09_U4	We go to today's item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the Riigikogu's decision to release a member of the Supreme Court, Harri Salmann, from the judicial office of a member of the Supreme Court, 696. Let me introduce you to the procedure for processing this point. First, the presentation by the representative of the commission is up to 20 minutes, then questions to the rapporteur. Any member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to the rapporteur. Ladies and gentlemen, are you interested in the procedure? Looks like I don't care. [[There's noise in the hall.]] Well, it's starting to happen. After the questions have been answered, negotiations will be opened. Only the representatives of the political groups may speak. A final vote will follow. I would like a presentation by Väino Linde, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-09_U5	Dear Riigikogu, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I hope to open the contents of this draft decision to you within a given 20 minutes. It all started with the fact that on 11 June this year the President of the Supreme Court submitted a draft decision to the Riigikogu to exempt Harri Salmann, a member of the Supreme Court, from the judicial office. The judgment is based on the fact that § 99 (1) of the Courts Act lists the grounds for the dismissal of a judge and provides for one of the grounds for the dismissal of a judge's own wishes to resign. The judge of state, Harri Salmann, has expressed his wish to go to a well-deserved old-age pension and this is the reason for this draft decision. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs examined this issue at its meeting yesterday and unanimously decided that there could be a final vote in the Riigikogu today on this draft decision. We also discussed what would happen if the Riigikogu did not vote in favour of this draft decision today. We found it possible to come back to this issue and to refer the draft to the Riigikogu again through the Committee on Constitutional Affairs until we could get the facts straightened out. However, this was only a theoretical discussion, so the proposal of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is today to support Harri Salmann's decision to dismiss him by voting in favour. Finally, it was on 25 February 1993 when, among other important issues of the Riigikogu, the President of the Supreme Court and our current good colleague Rait Maruste also gave his oath of office to Harri Salmann by his decision of the Supreme Court. Today is the day when we should take a decision to dismiss him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-09_U6	Thank you very much. You have also received one question. Please, Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-09_U7	Thank you, good manager. Dear colleague Väino, Perhaps you could clarify a little what you meant by that, in case the Riigikogu does not support this decision today. How would this procedure work? Can a person who wants to retire not retire or what it would look like?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-09_U8	Thank you. As a member of the Riigikogu is free in its decisions, the Riigikogu can deliver everything through its vote and press this button. But purely theoretically, this draft decision can be re-transmitted and still processed. I do not think that a situation in which the Riigikogu does not grant its approval to dismiss a judge of state will arise.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-09_U9	Imre Sooäär, unfortunately, you can only ask one question. Anyone else interested? No further questions. Thank you very much, Väino Linde! It is now possible to negotiate if there are any requests to speak. There's no call. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 696. We are preparing for the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote on the Riigikogu's decision of the President of the Supreme Court to release Harri Salmann from the judicial office of a member of the Supreme Court, draft 696. Please take a stand and vote. 73 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision. Ladies and gentlemen, our agenda today has been exhausted. I wish everyone a busy day. See you later! Closure of the sitting at 10.11.
