ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U1	Dear fellow Members, Honourable Riigikogu! Good morning. We will begin the 16th working week Thursday session of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask for a chair of speakers from the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or inquiries. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Economic Commission will initiate a draft law amending the Electricity Market Act. The point is that the processing of electricity market law is currently behind the European Commission's hopefully granting State aid authorisation, but the draft that is currently pending has a number of points that should enter into force and which are not directly linked to this State aid authorisation, such as the financing of the data exchange platform and the regulation of the operations carried out on certificates of origin for the source of electricity. The Committee on Economic Affairs will therefore initiate a corresponding draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U3	I ask for the Riigikogu speech chair Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have an inquiry from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party to report to Minister Urmas Kruus. The topic is the order of treatment for specialised medical care. Our hospitals and other health institutions still fail to comply with the minister's relevant regulation and do not register the patient's waiting list on his first referral, even though the regulation requires it. So the person stays on the phone forever, the reception is always told that the numbers are not yet available and when they will come, they don't know. Sometimes they come in the morning, sometimes in the evening. Please call me next week. The patient may not be hit at all. The Minister's regulation states that the health care provider is obliged to register requests for treatment in the queue on the first call of the person in need, regardless of the length of the queues. Yet this is not done. We have repeatedly asked different ministers about this, but there are no results. Now, in several of his issues, the topic was very acutely raised by the Earth's page. Our questions are about registration and the length of the queues. To give an example: a cardiologist's appointment should be expected for 130 days, a rheumatologist's appointment for 123 days, a neurologist's appointment for 124 days. The worst problems are precisely in central hospitals. So let's get a lot sharper on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U5	Riigikogu speech chair Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable interested in the environment! Happy International Environmental Day, everybody! Five members of the Riigikogu will initiate a draft to supplement the Waste Act. The Waste Act proposes the following amendment: Paragraph 119 is supplemented by paragraph 12 as follows: 'The provision of the service referred to in § 66 (1) of this Act is supervised by the Consumer Protection Board. ' The draft law amending the Waste Act was based on the following reasons. The addition of § 119 of the Act is due to the need to explicitly regulate that consumers have the right to contact the Consumer Protection Board for the protection of their rights in the case of organised waste shipments. There are many cases where the rights of consumers have been undermined by waste shippers. For example, they have introduced additional services for...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U7	Good waitress, sorry! Good colleagues, there's noise in the hall, there's too much coming from every line. Please respect the waitress and those who want to listen! Please, waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U8	Shippers have introduced illegal rates of charges for additional services and are detrimental to consumers' rights. There have also been cases where the shipper has unlawfully charged the customer for issuing a paper invoice under the Waste Shipment Service Contract. Neither the Waste Act nor the Consumer Protection Act provide one answer to the question whether the Consumer Protection Board is competent to resolve complaints relating to the provision of a waste shipment service. Once the law enters into force, legal clarity will be better ensured and consumers will be able to better exercise their rights to high-quality and accessible waste shipment services through the Consumer Protection Board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U9	Good fellows! On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two drafts and one inquiry, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board decides on their further processing. Now, let's go through the presence check. 89 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 12.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U10	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of the Act amending the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Law amending and implementing the Law on Law Enforcement. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. So we can go to the preparation of the final vote. Dear colleagues, I will put draft 573 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. With the result of 66 members of the Riigikogu, no one is opposed and 1 impartially has been adopted as a law 573 of the Act amending the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities and amending and implementing the Law on Law Enforcement. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U11	Let us move on to the second item on the agenda, which is an overview of judicial order, justice and uniform application of laws. The rapporteur is Priit Pikamäe, President of the Supreme Court. Allow me to briefly present the procedure for processing the item under § 155 of our Home and Working Procedures Act. First of all, Priit Pikamäe, President of the Supreme Court, gives a presentation for up to 30 minutes. After that, you can ask the waitress questions. Any member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to the rapporteur. After that, there are negotiations in which only the representatives of the political groups can speak. Please present the speech chair to Priit Pikamäe, President of the Supreme Court!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U12	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! § 27 (3) of the Courts Act gives the President of the Supreme Court the opportunity to turn to the Parliament once a year with an overview of the organisation of the court in Estonia, the administration of justice and the uniform application of the laws. Due to the multifaceted nature of the judicial system's activities, it is not possible to accommodate all our current problems in a single report. Inevitably, a choice must be made. I would therefore like to focus today's presentation on the constitutional review procedure, for two reasons. First of all, because last year will remain in the history of justice as the year with the highest number of cases resolved under constitutional supervision. On the other hand, there are a number of important generalisations that can be taken into account in the legislative process on the basis of the things reviewed last year. The previous year of constitutional review is characterised by the following figures: As has already been said, this was a record year: 66 cases settled in 2013 have so far been the largest number of cases reviewed in constitutional review proceedings since the reopening of the Supreme Court. Nearly 60% of these matters started with a specific regulation, i.e. they were presented to the Supreme Court for discussion at some court level. Abstract control cases were examined in a total of three procedures. All these proceedings were initiated by the Chancellor of Justice. The President of the Republic did not address any requests to the Supreme Court last year. Of the 66 cases examined in the constitutional review procedure, the rule of law was declared unconstitutional in a total of 33 cases and the application was rejected in 18 cases. In this regard, it should be pointed out immediately that both the large number of cases brought under constitutional supervision and the significant total number of applications granted are unambiguously due to the continuing constitutional review of the provisions of the State Fees Act concerning the fees of the courts. Since last year was also the year of the election of local governments, 17 electoral appeals were also examined by the Supreme Court. One of the questions often asked by members of the Riigikogu to the Chairman of the Supreme Court concerns the execution of constitutional review decisions of the Supreme Court. The extent to which the Riigikogu and the Government of the Republic have complied with the instructions given by the Supreme Court to amend acts which have been declared unconstitutional is examined. In preliminary terms, it should be noted that not all decisions in constitutional review procedures, which have declared some provisions to be unconstitutional, require a new set of rules. This is mostly the case where the Supreme Court declares some of the existing norms unconstitutional and invalid, and with the deletion of such a rule from the text of the legislative act, a sufficiently clear situation has been achieved. In other respects, however, if the Supreme Court declares non-statutory legislation, i.e. the failure of the legislator to act, as well as if the nullity of the rule declared unconstitutional results in legal clarity. Understandably, in such a case, the establishment of a constitutional situation requires active steps by the legislator and the executive authorities to develop and establish an appropriate set of rules. It is probably not surprising that problems in the enforcement of Supreme Court decisions arise from this sphere. From the analysis of the Supreme Court this year of the implementation of constitutional review decisions made in 2010-2013, it appears that in 32 such cases, the keywords "unfulfilled" can be written unambiguously behind nine decisions. These are decisions in which, as the Supreme Court is aware, the relevant draft law has not yet been issued even to the parliamentary proceedings in order to put an end to the unconstitutional situation. On the bright side, it can therefore be concluded that in more than two thirds of cases, the legislator has either already taken what was stated in the resolution of the Supreme Court to comply or is in the process of proceeding with the relevant draft law. Of course, the processing of the bill may also be very time-consuming for various reasons, which is why the Supreme Court's judgment can only be considered to be final when the new law has entered into force. This latter problem is well illustrated by the situation that has developed around the State Liability Act. On 22 March 2011, the General Assembly of the Supreme Court decided for the first time that the legislator had left the procedure for damages caused by criminal proceedings not governed by the State Liability Act. Although the new draft Act on State Liability was one of the first drafts adopted by the Riigikogu in its composition, the issue of damage caused by criminal proceedings is still exhaustively unregulated. Formally, therefore, the Supreme Court's views on this matter have not been taken into account for more than three years. I admit that it may not be easy to develop the necessary regulation at times because of the nature of things, but the process of enforcing the Supreme Court's judgment that has lasted for so long cannot be considered reasonable. In an attempt to essentially generalise the issues addressed in the practice of constitutional review, the diversity of the problems solved must be acknowledged. In today's Parliamentary report, I consider it necessary to look at two of them: the content of justice and the subject matter of court fees and its effects. Finally, I would like to make a specific proposal concerning the possible further development of the constitutional review procedure. I'll start with justice. As surprising as that may be, although the need for justice in society is due to the existence of a judicial system, the issue of what is understood by justice is rarely addressed in case law. However, the need for a more precise definition of justice as a phenomenon arose at the General Assembly of the Supreme Court last year due to the request of the Tallinn Circuit Court. In particular, the Supreme Court had to check whether the provisions of the Courts Act and the Code of Civil Procedure, which gave the Advocate General the power to determine the costs of proceedings in his place as a judge, are compatible with § 146 of the Constitution, according to which only the court is to rule on the law. Thus, in essence, the district court raised the question of who is in a court of law for the purposes of the Constitution to understand the right of judges, in addition to judges. Oma s. a In its judgment of 4 February, the Supreme Court took the view that the determination of the costs of proceedings in civil proceedings is a judicial decision within the meaning of the first sentence of § 146 of the Constitution and the Advocate General is not a judge within the meaning of the Constitution, which led to the relevant provisions being declared unconstitutional and invalid. The reasoning of the Supreme Court is summed up in such a way that when a particular task is regarded as material justice, only judges can perform that function. Although the Supreme Court did not make a general or comprehensive assessment of which specific tasks are considered to be justice and under what conditions and whether they can be transferred to non-judges officials in court, the Supreme Court's ruling clearly implies that according to the Constitution, the workload of courts cannot be reduced or the speed of proceedings increased by the material functions of justice being carried out by court officials, such as Advocates Generals-General, instead of judges. Secondly, this decision brings us back to the practice of the Supreme Court's earlier justice. This can be guided by at least two sets of interrelated problems that the legislator could address. These are the transfer of the task of justice to an institution which is not a court and therefore does not work as a judge, and the compulsory pre-trial procedure. In order to reduce the workload of the judicial system, the legislator has delegated the initial settlement of the dispute to an institution other than a court in a number of areas. In certain cases, such as misdemeanour proceedings, the power to review the case before the courts has been conferred on the executive. The Competition Authority is also placed in the same line, to which the law assigns, inter alia, the settlement of disputes between the parties to the electricity market. In addition, in order to resolve very different disputes, the legislator has created specific institutions whose combined term is the "body established by law for the out-of-court settlement of a dispute', the State Liability Act uses the term "body established by law for the resolution of a dispute'. Let us mention here as examples the Committee on Labour Disputes, the Committee on Rent and the Committee on Public Procurement. In essence, all these institutions perform one task; it is the resolution of the dispute between the parties. However, the general principles governing the activities of these bodies, as well as the institutional and guarantee issues, as well as the subsequent possibility to challenge decisions taken by them, have been regulated differently across sectors. I think the time is ripe to consider whether there is a need for a single general regulation for bodies set up by law for the out-of-court settlement of disputes, subjecting such institutions to uniform operating principles, taking into account the possibility of a person suing. The second fundamental problem concerns the procedure for the pre-trial settlement of the dispute. In numerous constitutional review decisions, the Supreme Court has considered the effective functioning of the judicial system to be a constitutional legal value. The mandatory requirement to go through pre-trial proceedings before a court before a court in a non-judicial instance is therefore not, in itself, legally problematic. However, this is only provided that the pre-trial procedure does not last excessively long and that the right of recourse to the court provided for in § 15 of the Constitution is guaranteed to the person who does not agree with the decision given in the proceedings. As a general rule, in the case of the exercise of the right of appeal, the court is obliged to settle the dispute from the beginning. The procedural law must not consider recourse to the courts in this situation to be an exercise of the right of appeal and an appeal to the court against a decision given in a pre-trial procedure. In view of these considerations, I believe that the legislator would have the Supreme Court. a in the light of the decision of the so-called Advocate General of 4 February, the reason for examining the draft Code of Misdemeanour Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic and currently pending in Parliament. Last year the constitutionality of the various provisions of the state fee law also continued to be checked at the Supreme Court. Of the 66 cases dealt with in the constitutional review procedure last year, 31 cases were state fees cases. In general, the Supreme Court has been dealing with the topic of court fees since 2009, having solved 69 state fees in constitutional review proceedings as of 31 May of this year. Since this has been a process that has been going on for many years, it would probably be quite appropriate to recall some of the basic facts. It is recalled that, as of 1 January 2009, the legislator decided to increase the state fees payable in court proceedings, not in percentage terms, but in repeats. This drastic increase in legal costs was not overlooked by the parties to the proceedings, which is why the Supreme Court has had to deal with the requests to verify the constitutionality of the different rates established for civil and administrative proceedings since 2009. The Supreme Court has held, in principle, since 2011 (judgment of 12 April 2011 in the Wipestrex case), that although it is permissible, in constitutional terms, to impose at least a part of the state's costs on parties to proceedings in the case of financial disputes, as well as to charge the courts to avoid unjustified and malicious complaints, too high rates of state fees cannot be considered as a moderate means of achieving these objectives. Comparative arguments also played an important role in this assessment, since the state fees imposed since 1 January 2009 had, at least in the case of financial claims, formed one of the most costly Member States of the European Union. Although the legislator significantly reduced the rates of state fees from 1 July 2012, the consequences of a sharp increase in the rates of court fees in 2009 for both the judiciary and the claimants cannot be considered to be eliminated in any way. Thus the Supreme Court has had to deal with 47 new cases concerning the previous version of the Law on state fees in constitutional review proceedings following the reduction of the rates of state fees which took place on 1 July 2012. This makes on average two applications in one calendar month. It can therefore be boldly argued that the Constitutional Review College of the Supreme Court has become a fee court. Thus, after lowering the rates of the court fees almost two years ago, the control of the rates of state fees determined under the legislation that is already invalid will continue in the courts. The causes of such a situation lie mainly in two factors. First of all, the fact that the entire constitutionality of the court fees has been subject to a strict procedure of a specific standard which, according to the prevailing understanding, allows the Court to take a stand only on the constitutionality of the rate of the charge relating to a single case. The abstract review of the constitutionality of the legal fees in force in 2009-2012 has only been completed in s. a On 16 January, when the Chancellor of Justice approached the Riigikogu with a proposal concerning the continuing impact of the non-valid high rates of state fees in court proceedings. Secondly, it cannot be overlooked that, when the Riigikogu reduced the court fees from 1 July 2012, it was done only in a forward-looking manner, leaving the issue of too high state fees unsolved in those cases that started between 1 January 2009 and 30 June 2012, where the procedure has not yet ended with the court settlement. In view of the rules contained in the Code of Civil and Administrative Procedure for the refund of the overpaid state fee, the parties to the proceedings shall request the courts of the former courts to verify the constitutionality of the rates of state fees previously in force (until 30 June 2012). Such a practice by the parties to proceedings is also fully understandable, as there is more to the charge for access to court during that period than before and after that period. In summary, therefore, the issue of excessively high court fees imposed since 1 January 2009 cannot in any way be considered to have been finally solved as a legal problem, which remains pending a review of complaints lodged in the judicial system before 1 July 2012. The number of new possible constitutional monitoring procedures is therefore unpredictable. The solution to the saga of over five years of excessive court fees will come when the Riigikogu decides retroactively before 1 July 2012 the issue of the overpaid fees of those who have turned to the court by law. It is a pleasure to note that the light finally shines from the end of the tunnel, because the Riigikogu has completed the second reading of the Law on the Law of the Courts and the related draft law amending other laws in order to realise the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice on 16 January. Coming now to the so-called new court fees introduced since 1 July 2012, it must be noted that only one aspect has so far been verified by constitutional review procedures. In particular, whether the Constitution is in line with a situation where the rate of state fees payable when a court is seised varies depending on whether an appeal is lodged via an electronic e-file system or by other means, such as paper. The answer of the Supreme Court to this question was clearly negative. In view of the fact that the right of access to court is also a prerequisite for the protection of fundamental rights, the Supreme Court, in its judgment of 10 December 2013, did not consider it primarily compatible with the fundamental right of equality when the amount of the court fee is made dependent on the manner in which the appeal was lodged. Certainly, in constitutional terms, it is legitimate if the legislator wishes to improve the efficiency of the resolution of cases, but this should not be achieved by the different financial treatment of those who turn to the courts. The introduction of a more favourable rate of charge for the complainant through the e-file necessarily means this, as it raises a self-evident question as to why a person who cannot use a computer or give a digital signature must pay more for access to the court than a person who feels at home in this regard or why he must pay more for a citizen of another European Union country than an Estonian citizen with a digital signature right. What do you say to the conclusion of the sub-topic of the constitutional review of court fees? The previous Chairman of the Supreme Court, Märt Rask, has rightly stated in his 2011 parliamentary report that, in addition to socio-economic aspects, when deciding on the rates of fees, it must always be borne in mind that justice is one of the core functions of the state, the performance of which must be guaranteed regardless of whether the person is able to pay for it or not. This means, inter alia, that the fees cannot be considered separately from the procedural aid system. The greater the deterrent effect, i.e. the higher the rates, of the court fees, the more the court has to deal with the provision of procedural assistance. The sharp increase in court fees between 2009 and 2012 has confirmed this finding in practical terms. The aim set by the legislator to reduce the number of complaints by increasing court fees was not achieved on the sole ground that, even assuming that high levels of fees had reduced the number of cases before the court, the available resources were consumed by the equally increased number of applications for procedural assistance. Secondly, when discussing the rates of charges, it must never be forgotten that the cost of a trial is a benchmark with an international dimension, by which the attractiveness of the business environment in individual countries is assessed. In its annual report on the assessment of the business environment and the enforceability of contracts, the World Bank will always consider as one indicator how high the cost of enforcing its potential entitlement to justice for the company is. According to the World Bank's 2014 report, Estonia stands at 26th place among 189 countries in the world on the basis of these criteria, having increased by two places compared to last year. Despite this, the report does not fail to mention as a problem concerning Estonia that, although Estonia has reduced legal costs rates, in our courts, the highest rates of fees in the European Union and OECD countries are still in the case of financial claims, amounting to 11.9% of the amount of the claim. In this respect, it should be noted that the data of the survey are currently available, i.e. lower rates of charges which have entered into force since 1 July 2012. We must therefore realise that the judicial system is not a narrowly protected institution, but, in the context of world trade, it also characterises the investment climate of countries through its credibility and the criteria of legal aid costs. Thirdly, one fundamental problem arising from the practice of monitoring the constitutionality of court fees in the Supreme Court is that of the Riigikogu. As a party to proceedings in state fees opinions given to the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Committee has consistently expressed the opinion on behalf of the Riigikogu that the rates of court fees in force between 1 January 2009 and 30 June 2012 were unconstitutional. This has been a consistent position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. In its written opinion of 9 October 2013, it stated: 'The Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu has repeatedly expressed the view that the amounts of state fees in force before 30.06.2012 were disproportionate at the cost of the action and should therefore be declared unconstitutional and will refrain from giving an opinion on similar matters in the future. ' Pursuant to § 113 of the Constitution, state taxes, charges, fees, fines and compulsory insurance payments are established by the legislator. Thus, the decision on state fees is also the exclusive competence of the Riigikogu, which means that only the parliament can change the fees already imposed. The natural question therefore arises that, if the Parliament itself, which is entitled to impose state fees, has expressed the opinion, through the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, that the regulation of the rates of state fees throughout the period 1 January 2009 to 30 June 2012 must be considered to be unconstitutional, why has Parliament, on its own initiative, not done anything before to change the situation. It is inevitably the impression that, although the initiative to increase the fees unexpectedly came from the legislator, the elimination of its consequences, i.e. the protection of the fundamental rights of the persons concerned, remains solely on the back of the judicial system. However, I dare to assume that Parliament's unwillingness to seize the bull is not motivated by the desire to execute the Treasury at the expense of the parties to proceedings, because, as has been said, the issue of court fees in pending cases cannot be resolved otherwise than by partially paying the extra constitutional fee already paid to the parties to proceedings. Rather, the situation around the levies is characterised by a more general trend of concern towards a loss of power in Parliament and a more central model of government governance in the executive power. It seems to this speaker that we have been witnessing some erosion of the parliamentary power for some time, due to various reasons. There is no doubt that the development of different areas of life will also play an increasingly specific role, which, in turn, will require more and more expertise in making the necessary decisions. Unfortunately, in our constitutional evolution, the latter is mainly concentrated on the executive, so Parliament has remained the role of orphan. The strengthening of support structures supporting the members of the Riigikogu in their work has been discussed from time to time, but unfortunately these plans have not yet been decisively realised. It is worth stressing, however, that, according to the principle of the Parliamentary reservation under § 3 of the Constitution, the resolution of the issues which the Constitution requires the legislator to do cannot be subdelegated to anyone. Therefore, the Riigikogu must be able to take the initiative if necessary and be able to initiate draft laws without any proposal from any other institution. Otherwise, we will be able to borrow the vocabulary of the European Court of Human Rights in the face of a serious structural problem, the content of which is prescribed by the Constitution to question the mechanism of balance of powers. Finally, I would like to make one proposal concerning possible developments in our constitutional monitoring procedure model. As a phenomenon of the procedural data already presented in the introductory part of the report, Estonia is dominated by a specific control of the rules to be started by the courts in constitutional supervision, while the abstract supervision part is small. The latter, in turn, also affects the nature of the case law on constitutional review, which is largely focused on resolving disputes arising from the violation of subjective rights. Thus, it can be said that our current constitutional review procedure is quite judicial in nature and the face of its perceived problems. However, I believe that the potential of constitutional review proceedings could be used more effectively by broadening the scope of this procedure to open up the circle of entitled persons. I am thinking here that, for example, in our legal order, until now, Members of Parliament themselves have no right to refer directly to the Constitutional Court to check the constitutionality of the law being dealt with. However, this type of appeal is a relatively common form of constitutional review procedure in European countries. I take this opportunity to call on the Riigikogu to consider legitimising such an opportunity for our parliament, for example by positizing the right of the Riigikogu Group to initiate constitutional review proceedings. I believe that the adoption of this proposal at the same time strengthens the principle of democracy, gives an effective protection to the minority in Parliament in representing their positions and brings the Constitution's provision and meaning to a greater degree at the heart of parliamentary discussions. Of course, such a proposal has little appeal from the point of view of the parties forming the coalition, because in reality, recourse to the Constitutional Court would clearly be a tool for the parties making up the opposition, as confirmed by the practice of other countries. At the same time, a change in the roles of the coalition and of the opposition cannot be ruled out under the conditions of a functioning democracy. However, there is certainly an opportunity to move more towards the coalition and opposition consensus policy when granting the right to initiate constitutional review proceedings to the political groups of the Riigikogu. It would also provide a credible alternative to obstructionism that is used over and over again to protect the minority in the current parliamentary practice. The abuse of the right to initiate constitutional review proceedings would thus be effectively prevented by the obligation to formulate its objections to the legislative act in a legally reasoned manner in the context of the Constitution. I believe that from the point of view of the Supreme Court, giving the political groups of the parliament the right to initiate a supervisory procedure would, on the one hand, create a direct discussion between the parliament and the Constitutional Court, on the other hand, it would certainly enrich our current state-law discourse by broadening the possibilities of initiating constitutional practice. To conclude this report, I will make three proposals to Parliament. Firstly, to analyse the division of competences between judges and court officers contained in procedural laws, with a view to avoiding materially devolved judicial tasks outside the judiciary, and to consider establishing a single regulation for out-of-court dispute resolution bodies. Secondly, to bring the provisions of the State Fees Act in force between 1 January 2009 and 30 June 2012 into line with the Constitution as soon as possible. And thirdly, consider the inclusion of parliamentary groups in the circle of persons entitled to bring legal proceedings for constitutional oversight. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U13	Thank you very much, President of the Supreme Court. You have a lot of questions, too. Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U14	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable President of the Supreme Court! I'm just asking about the last part of the report. I think that the fourth or fourth point is quite an interesting idea. Why don't you expand a little bit on how you imagine everything when you propose it? We have repeatedly discussed in the group with you what the role of politicians, including elected delegates, or legislator, could be on certain issues. Do you see here the potential danger that the role of legislator will be transferred to the judiciary? Or do you see any other developments here? And how can you avoid it becoming such an abstract political correspondence? The idea itself is interesting.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U15	Thank you for your question. In making this proposal, I was thinking in particular of the existing constitutional practice of other Continental European countries. When we look around other European countries, we see that this way of initiating constitutional review proceedings, the way in which we address the Constitutional Court, is quite common. There is nothing unusual about it and it works very well in other countries as such. True, the question in itself is how much it is used in practice. I guess it's been different at different times. In any case, this gives one additional opportunity to develop a constitutional review practice and from the standpoint of the Supreme Court, that is why I have submitted this proposal. What would it look like in the details? This can still be discussed if the proposal is supported in principle. However, I am thinking, in particular, that this could still concern the law already in force, in order to avoid deliberately holding back the legislative procedure. Secondly, there should certainly be some time limit within which such a request may be made. These are the main points. But the content of these complaints is the practice of showing how everything is going to turn out.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U16	Ene Ergma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U17	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear President of the Supreme Court! Kristen Michal has already asked my question largely, but I would like to continue. Could you tell us which countries have introduced it? Are these the Nordic countries? Or are these countries of southern Europe? Do you have that kind of information? I think you should have it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U18	Thank you for your question. Here, for example, the largest countries of the European Union: France, Germany, Austria. But there are more. I once again assure you that this is not an unusual way of addressing the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U19	Tiina Lock-Tramberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U20	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable President of the Supreme Court! Listening to this presentation, this intriguing question arose: how do you view the idea of bringing court administration into the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court instead.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U21	I have been asked this question several times before. I still believe that the administration of courts of first and second instance according to the current model, if this is done in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice and the Court Administration Advisory Board, is a well-functioning and well-founded system. In order to make this system so great that the entire administration of courts is brought into the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court, there must be very strong arguments. I can't find those arguments right now. I think that at least two things speak for the current model. Firstly, through the Minister of Justice, parliamentary control of judicial administration remains in the system. Secondly, when we look at the current budgetary process, in view of the relatively large centrality of the Government of the Republic, it is good that we still have a political minister who represents the interests of the judiciary in this process. These are the main arguments why I believe that the existing judicial system may be further developed in certain aspects of this model of the Administrative Council, but I cannot find any compelling reason to make it cardinal.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U22	Aivar Rosenberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U23	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable President of the Supreme Court! Do you think that the salary of judges in Estonia is sufficient?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U24	Thank you for that question. I think that the wages of Estonian judges are completely competitive. For this, the Riigikogu must certainly be recognised, because it has not always been that way. But today, compared to other countries of the European Union, the salary of the Estonian judge is completely equivalent. There is nothing to blame for this in the present situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U25	Andrus Ansip, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U26	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable President of the Supreme Court, first of all, thank you very much for your very meaningful speech. You said that it seems to you that we have been witnessing some sort of erosion of parliamentary power for some time now. Perhaps then the power of Parliament will decrease and we will move towards a more executive state. You know, I agree with you. In the nine years I worked as Prime Minister, I was able to use the help of the best experts in the country. The member of the Riigikogu is practically alone in the Riigikogu. Do you consider it possible, in principle, to declare an unconstitutional situation where a member of the Riigikogu does not have any advisors? [[Laughter.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U27	I thank you for this extremely intriguing question. I will remain diplomatic in replying to this and assure you that when this request comes to the Supreme Court, we will resolve it. But I think the problem is serious. I myself have also occasionally played an advisory role in the legislative process, and it has clearly been pointed out to me that a Member really is often alone in making important decisions. When compared with the parliaments of other countries of the European Union, Parliament's work is supported on many sides by a very strong support structure whose analysis and advice Parliament can also rely on when critically assessing the drafts submitted by the government. This deficit is clearly felt in our system. The possibility of assessing, to the extent necessary, the feasibility of drafts submitted by the government in the legislative process is quite limited. After all, we see that in the parliamentary committees when dealing with drafts, officials of ministries often say their weighty words, the competence of the Riigikogu itself is rather modest. I think Parliament should address this issue. Here, I do not think it is necessary to fear reproach in any direction. This is an important constitutional issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U28	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U29	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Mr President of the Supreme Court, for your meaningful report. I'm gonna ask you a question like that. The money shortage and state policies force many municipalities to reform schools. A school reform plan has been adopted, which unfortunately requires the closure of several schools. It is quite common for citizens to go to court so that the decisions of the local government can be amended. But where is the autonomy and decision-making power of local governments when the court decides how many schools are in the territory of one municipality or another?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U30	Thank you for that question. I have to say that I am not very familiar with the problem on which this issue applies. But I guess this largely goes back to the way in which the tasks of the state and local government are divided at the level of the legislator in the process of organizing the school network. That's one. Secondly, if you approach the case from the point of view of the judicial system, if a complaint has been brought before the court in accordance with the procedure laid down for that purpose, the court will have to deal with it. The Court cannot unduly reject complaints brought before it. It's that simple.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U31	Tarmo Pine, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U32	Honourable President of the Supreme Court! In your report, you rightly paid a great deal of attention to the need to improve the judicial system. However, you did not give a very concrete assessment of the procedural deadlines that apply in our country. How do you justify the protracted processes, which drain both the state and the defendants themselves, over many years? Surely everyone will immediately remember the process of land change, which has been going on for eight years and still does not have a solution. Personally, I think that the interests of justice and human rights should still come together in long courts somewhere. Anyway, it's not a reasonable time. How do you view the current procedural deadlines in the courts of first and second instance?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U33	Indeed, for every person who has turned to the court, the question of how quickly the dispute he has raised will be resolved is crucial. If we look at today's statistics on proceedings in the courts of first and second instance, it is clear that the average length of proceedings in the different types of proceedings has been progressively reduced. The project of the so-called Advocates-General, initiated by the Ministry of Justice, has also contributed to this, which I consider to be the biggest investment in the human assets of the judicial system since the re-establishment of the Estonian judicial system. One result is certainly that in recent years, the Courts of First and Second Instances have greatly reduced the "old" balance, i.e. the balance of things that have been pending for a very long time. The shortening of procedural time limits is a clear trend on the basis of the procedural statistics of the previous year. But I would point out that this is the average estimated time of proceedings, which does not mean that it is not shorter or longer in one particular case or another. That's the way it's bound to be. However, there is a clear link that the procedural deadlines are the shorter the more the State has allocated resources to the tasks of the sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U34	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U35	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable President of the Supreme Court! I have such a slightly broader and more philosophical question. The state, by its rules, forces people to behave in a certain way, and when the state uses a certain form of coercion, we generally have the opportunity to complain about it. However, if the state uses coercion and the person agrees with this coercion, is it necessary or reasonable to have the right of appeal always, whether in any form of sentence or in any form of administration?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U36	As I pointed out in my report, the right of access to justice is one of the fundamental rights of the Constitution. It must be guaranteed to everyone, especially in situations where it may be an obstacle to the integrity of the person or, more importantly, the taking of personal liberty. So with this siege, I'd be very careful. Rather, it should be avoided. That's the simple answer to your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U37	Rein Lang, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U38	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable President of the Supreme Court! You spent a considerable amount of time on your presentation on the subject of state fees. In democratic countries, there are two broad policy approaches to setting civil court fees. The first provides that state fees are symbolic and that the costs of civil proceedings are borne jointly and severally by society. This means that litigation is also paid for by people who do not go to court. The second approach is that state fees must cover a certain part of the costs incurred in civil proceedings. This means that the defendants pay for the maintenance of the courts themselves. I'm asking you which one of these approaches is more consistent with your worldview.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U39	Thank you for that question. My view of the world clearly coincides with the view that, since justice is one of the core functions of the state, the state must also be able to guarantee it in a situation where the expected revenue from the charge is not received or when those who turn to the court are unable to pay the fee for various reasons. What is the fundamental idea of the judiciary? It is the resolution of disputes arising in society in the formalised process of resolving these disputes, the release of these disputes from emotions and, by doing so, the reduction of conflict in society. If we create artificial barriers in order to minimise the number of cases before the courts, then it can be assumed that the result is the spread of maladministration and conflict situations in society, which certainly cannot be regarded as a satisfactory solution. It is still the task of the state to ensure legal peace and order. Therefore, personally, I am certainly in favour of this approach that, in a certain sense, expenses must also be borne by people who do not go to court. At the same time, when looking at the constitutional review practice of the Supreme Court, it is clear that when it comes to resolving financial claims, it is entirely legitimate in the sense of the Constitution that the state assumes that, at least in the case of these claims, some of the costs of justice are covered by the parties to the proceedings themselves. It is a question of what proportion the cost to be borne by the parties themselves could be. That, in my opinion, is a key issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U40	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U41	Thank you. Good waitress! During the last ten years, society has been shaken by a number of so-called high-profile cases, where, unfortunately, the judge himself has been in the stand. You've heard less about them lately. What is your assessment of the credibility of the judges and the credibility of the judicial system from this point of view? What measures have been taken and how do we relate statistically to our northern and southern neighbours in this sense? What is the credibility of the judges and the judiciary elsewhere compared to ours?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U42	Thank you for that question. As regards the credibility of the judicial system in other countries of the European Union, including the Nordic countries, I do not currently have any comparable data available. However, a survey was carried out last year among the Estonian population asking how reliable our people considered the Estonian judicial system to be. The result was that more than half of those interviewed considered the Estonian judicial system reliable. Of course, the individual cases you referred to are extremely regrettable. There's nothing else to be said. It must be acknowledged that at the beginning of the 1990s, when there was a great need to find a large number of people to serve as judges at the same time, certain mistakes were made in choosing these people, and these errors have, to say the least, been avenged in such a way. But I dare assure you today that the Estonian state has become much stronger. The procedures for the appointment of judges are also much more precise than in the past. They have become more comprehensive, and candidates for judges will be considered very seriously before any decision on appointment is taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U43	Cameron Maruse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U44	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, First of all, I would like to welcome your position on the subconstruction of the support apparatus of the Riigikogu. So let's try and fix it somehow! But what is your understanding of whether the right to appeal to a court is a right that applies to all three levels, or whether it is a right to a single hearing or a trial?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U45	Thank you for that question. The questioner must know that to a large extent this is also a question of worldview. And it can also be approached very differently in the light of our constitution. The general understanding, including from my memory, of the European Court of Human Rights is that a one-off right of access to justice is sufficient. The right of appeal does not have to be guaranteed in all things. We have to admit that our justice system is sometimes more sacred than the pope himself in this sense than it is imaginary. We are allowed to appeal in very many matters until the Supreme Court. This also means that Estonia is therefore a very rich country, that we can afford this luxury. But my understanding of this issue has always been that I do not see any obstacles to the legislator's decision that in certain more complex cases, the first step is missed and the litigation begins at the second stage. On the one hand, it would reduce the time spent on the case in the judicial system as a whole and, on the other hand, free up certain resources in highly overburdened first instance courts, from which, as we know, all appeals to the courts begin. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U46	Marko Pomerants, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U47	Thanks! I am certainly willing to participate in the initiation of such a draft, which states that if a man has been Prime Minister for nine years and has had advisers there, when he enters the Riigikogu, he will at least be given one advisor by the Riigikogu because he is used to this situation. However, at the same time, paragraph 2 says that if there is a risk that he will become one of the Commissioners of the European Commission and there will be advisers waiting again, this section would not be implemented. Now to the question. Your second proposal concerned the court fees provided for in the State Fees Act, which in the meantime, in 2009-2012, have been unconstitutional. In your opinion, the Riigikogu should do something here. At the same time, the courts, when discussing these unconstitutional charges, have set themselves many constitutional charges. Why can't this practice go on in this form?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U48	Thank you for that question. Why established practice is not good, it has been dealt with very long and comprehensively in the Chancellor of Justice's proposal of 16 January this year. In fact, this has led us to a situation in which courts impose unreasonably different fees in analogous matters. This certainly cannot be regarded as a good solution from the point of view of the principle of legal certainty. Secondly, it has now become the case that courts under judicial law are replacing legislators, to a large extent, with an emergency solution which has also, to some extent, sought to save the Treasury. The second alternative solution would be that if the Court states that the rate of the court fees applicable to a particular case is unconstitutional, it will not apply it and will not fix the court fees in that case. It seems to me, however, that the judicial system has acted in a very responsible manner, bearing in mind, on the one hand, the interest of the parties to the proceedings in bringing legal action and, on the other hand, the interest of the State in making a profit in the form of state fees. However, such a situation cannot necessarily last; the principle of legal certainty already requires that this issue be resolved unambiguously throughout the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U49	Mr President, I thank you very much for your meaningful report and your substantive answers. Now I'm opening negotiations. Mrs Rait Maruse, representative of the Reform Party Group, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U50	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U51	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U52	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good Chairman of the Supreme Court, I have such a question. Is the number of judges in the Republic of Estonia sufficient? There are a lot of complaints that processes are dragging down very long and that complaints are not being dealt with. Could this be because we still have too few judges?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U53	Thank you for that question. I think that the number of judges, as it has been in place some time ago, has totaled 242 judges, is quite sufficient under Estonian conditions. If we assess this in comparison with other countries of the European Union, this figure per 100000 inhabitants, as is usually taken into account, is quite the same. I do not consider it necessary to increase the number of judges. However, there are some other aspects that could be addressed. In particular, we do not have a mechanism in the judicial system for other-known replacement judges, which would make it possible to take over his duties in an operational situation where a judge is forced to stay out of work for a certain period of time. This is a problem we feel especially at certain levels of court. In the meantime, the benches had been vacant for a long time and it was not possible to send anyone to replace them, so there was a longer waiting list for the cases to be dealt with. Tackling these so-called residues is a serious challenge. I repeat: I do not consider it necessary to increase the overall number of judges, but I do consider it appropriate to seriously engage in the development of the institute of a replacement judge.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U54	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U55	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I asked you that when you took office, but it's been a while, and I'm gonna ask you again. What do you think about the position and development of the institution of the judges of the people in the Estonian judicial system?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U56	Thank you for that question. I am still convinced of the system of judges of the people. People's participation in justice must be guaranteed. How can we do this? There are very different solutions for this in different countries. One extreme is that there is only a jury. The second extreme is a professional judiciary in which citizens do not participate at all in justice. The institution of the judges of the people will remain in the middle of these two models, allowing the court to be chaired by a professional judge on the one hand, but on the other hand, ensuring the participation of citizens in the administration of justice. The latter is not an insignificant issue at all, because to a large extent it depends on the extent to which judicial decisions are understandable and acceptable in society. I certainly do not support the abolition of the system of judges. But the development of this system could be done more seriously in Estonia. It now stands out that the average age of public judges is quite high. It is important to address the need to become judges for the younger people as well and to encourage citizens' interest in participating in justice at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U57	Honourable President of the Supreme Court, there is one more question for you. Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U58	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! Do you agree with me that the legal clarity of the law must ensure that courts are not overburdened? For example, tax laws often leave the official with a large definition right, with no precise criteria laid down. This definition is often debated in court. If the criteria were set out in the law, many trials would be avoided.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U59	Thank you for that question. As a lawyer, I am convinced that legal clarity is a very important asset. This must be guaranteed and the legislative acts must be clear. However, I am absolutely convinced that even in the case of very legal clear acts, litigation is not excluded. It's kind of a semiotic problem, I dare say. Laws will always be interpreted. To write a law that would rule out any interpretation of the law I can't imagine that it's possible. And indeed, with regard to the aspect of interpretation, it is inevitable that court disputes will arise over how one or the other rule can be accurately furnished. As regards whether the discretion of an official should be completely excluded and whether there should always be an unambiguous imperative rule in the law, when we look at the practice of constitutional review of the Supreme Court, there are a number of decisions where the lack of discretion has been found to be unconstitutional. Imperative standards often make it a problem that it is not possible to foresee all the cases that arise in practice and that, as a result, standards often prove to be too rigid. At other times, an manifestly unfair solution has been reached in such situations, which is why the Constitutional Review College of the Supreme Court has been forced to admit that the lack of discretion in a particular case has been unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U60	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear President of the Supreme Court! In its usual annual review, the Chairman of the Supreme Court has this time concentrated on some important legal policy issues and made three proposals to Parliament as a summary of the report. The report avoids, possibly modesty, a more general assessment of the functioning of the Estonian judicial system, its effectiveness and problems. I'll start with the last or the overall assessment, because this is what the annual review requires. While there is dissatisfaction and problems that need to be resolved on a daily practical level, it does not seem bad in a wider context, such as Europe-wide. The system works more or less as it must in the democratic rule of law. The public generally trusts and considers the judiciary to be independent. The general procedural deadlines in Estonia are short compared to those in other European countries and they show a tendency to shorten. The Court is generally considered, with only a few exceptions, to be low-corruptible. All in all, things work out. However, there is still a problem of uniform judicial administration, which has not resulted in a single system as a whole, i.e. a judicial order covering both the first, second and third stages, i.e. the Supreme Court. However, in the form of a well-functioning court board, we have not only legal, but also constitutional, preconditions for the organisation of the system. A large part of the resources of judicial administration still go to activities which are not intrinsically related to justice, such as the keeping of registers, the search of parties to proceedings and the activities related to the execution phase. There are also signs of excessive shut-down of the judiciary and sometimes excessive anchoring over-emphasis on legal positivism and formal legality. The right verdict must also be fair. The review has given important weight to the issue of constitutional supervision. This is to be welcomed, because so far we have underestimated this type of jurisdiction, although it should be considered the primary function of the Supreme Court in the interests of statehood and democracy. Last year was a record year in the area of constitutional supervision, as the President of the Supreme Court noted. The focus of the procedure and of the initiation of constitutional review cases was very clear to the courts. At the same time, it is worth noting that the President of the Republic has disappeared from this system and that the constitutional review that is based on the President has been withdrawn for monitoring in the capitals. Unfortunately, the large number of court-supervised cases represented a very significant proportion of so-called state fees, which were followed up. I do not want to bring this matter up again here, but I note that nothing prevented the Supreme Court from taking a binding position as to which state fees should have been considered constitutionally valid, if the Supreme Court knows which fee is unconstitutional, then it also assumes that it knows which fee is constitutionally valid, and that it knows the relevant guidelines for lower courts. In fact, several court decisions showed this. To argue that this is a structural problem in the legal system is probably too far to go. To conclude, however, so much so that the new fee fixing is at the second reading stage and this draft will probably soon become a law. As a bad example of constitutional supervision, the Chairman of the Supreme Court highlighted years of work on the draft Act on State Liability. Yeah, it's unfortunate it's taken so long at the Justice Department. However, at least part of this responsibility is also held by the Honourable Supreme Court itself, who was unable to agree in any way on how this responsibility should be organised. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U61	We have now finally reached the so-called half-revenue, i.e. the procedure for compensation for damages caused in criminal proceedings, drawn up by the Ministry of Justice and initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The draft is currently pending in the Riigikogu. The assumption that this law will be enforced this year is there. The Supreme Court has decided that the settlement of costs on the basis of the invoices submitted is also a judicial decision which cannot be entrusted to the Advocate General. At the same time, there are different concepts and practices in this area. We believe that the Court should concentrate its valuable working time on the core business, which is what no one else can do. The proposal for a wider use of legal dispute resolution bodies, i.e. various pre-trial dispute resolution bodies, to reduce the workload of the judiciary should be welcomed. In other parts of the world, they are also called quasi-judicial bodies and discuss rental disputes, minor claims for damages, etc. Nor is it a bad idea to try to create one general model, regulation for the creation and functioning of bodies of this kind. Such arrangements should respect the principles of simplicity, speed and low-formality. To conclude his presentation, the President of the Supreme Court proposed to extend the constitutional review procedure, also giving the parliamentary group the right to submit an application to the Supreme Court to initiate the constitutional review procedure. This proposal was also discussed at the time of the establishment of the Supreme Court and constitutional oversight system, but was sidelined due to the lack of political consensus. This is a proposal that is in line with the practice prevailing in most constitutional jurisdictions. If implemented, the subject matter of the Constitution and the discourse would become less court or judge-centred and more part of the political debate. This would perhaps also prevent so-called 'force' from being pursued for political reasons. In any case, this would be a step towards consensus democracy. So the proposal deserves to be assessed and analysed and perhaps carried out. However, if that is what we want, the Supreme Court should also be open to the establishment of generally accepted rules for the formation and functioning of constitutional courts, I mean the requirements for the appointment of judges, the practice and the terms of office. I hope we can get through this, too. In summary, we wish the Supreme Court and the entire system every success in their work, thanks to the President of the Supreme Court for an appropriate review!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U62	Thank you! Please ask Tarmo Tamme, representative of the Estonian Centre Party Group, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U63	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear President of the Supreme Court! Ladies and gentlemen, who are still following this debate in this Chamber of the Riigikogu! Today we have a comprehensive overview of constitutional supervision, the content of justice and the fees. In his presentation, the President of the Supreme Court referred to the need to understand what is still understood by the administration of justice. I answer Aivar Cloud with the words: "Advancing justice for what purposes? ' I'll explain what I'm thinking right now. The effectiveness of our current system and the pursuit of our own right versus reasonableness. We still cannot say that the quality of judicial work in decision-making has improved. This is illustrated by the number of decisions under appeal. It is costly to go to different levels of court and, in one way or another, to pay for the money spent in someone's pocket. Ladies and gentlemen, In many cases, a substantial addition to complaints is essentially a rewriting of the previous explanations of the complaint in a slightly different wording. In other words, it often contains nothing new, but it is sufficient for the court's claim to be formally met. The question arises as to how smart it is economically to rewrite explanations for taxpayers' money. To what extent will this improve the quality of our justice? Logic states that all such matters should be specified already in pre-trial proceedings and in the first instance of legal proceedings. This would ensure effective protection of the law and respect for the principle of the economy of legal proceedings. Justice should not become a general impression of the public, but should remain within the framework of a balance between justice and justice. The Centre Party Group considers that the abolition of special retirement pensions for judges was the wrong step. A special pension is one guarantee which ensures the objectivity of the person in that position and reduces the risk of pressure on him. For example, pressure can be considered when a favourable decision is taken in anticipation of a later good job or other benefit. The Transparency International, GRECO and MONEYVAL reports stress that the monthly salaries of judges, even if they are high or much higher than the average, may not be enough to curb corruption. According to experts, it is the overall social package, including the later pension package, that will make a significant contribution to this. Finally, it is up to us to think about how to motivate the national justice community and direct them to focus their work from start to finish on reasonableness and efficiency rather than to seek the best way of showing themselves on the good side so as to improve their quality of life or to compensate for modest quality of life with their jobs. It's not effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U64	Thank you. I ask for a speech chair from the Social Democratic Party Group, Neeme Suur. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U65	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank the Chairman of the Supreme Court for a meaningful presentation and a thorough overview of the constitutional review procedure! Today is the twelfth time that the Riigikogu listens to the annual overview of the judicial organisation, justice and uniform application of the laws of the Supreme Court. On 6 June last year, the President of the Supreme Court, Mr. Märt Rask, presented his final report to the Riigikogu, focusing on criminal proceedings, before which attention was given to administrative court proceedings and civil court proceedings. The subject of legal proceedings is so wide that it is only in four years that we have almost circled. In the introduction to the speech just heard, the current President of the Supreme Court also said that due to the multifaceted nature of the activities of the judicial system, it is not possible to accommodate all the current problems in one report. Inevitably, a certain choice must be made. So I am not going to comment exactly on Mr Pikamägi's speech here, but I am going to focus on a few things. First of all, I have a chance to confirm that there's a lot of light at the end of the tunnel. In addition to the fact that the Riigikogu has completed the second reading of the court law and related draft law amending other laws, the Riigikogu passed the first reading on 3 June, also the draft law on compensation for damage caused by the offence procedure, which aims to help directly comply with the constitutional decisions of the Supreme Court. We can read from the explanatory memorandum to the draft act that the decisions made during 2011 in the area of state liability under the constitutional review procedure of the Supreme Court resulted in a thorough revision of the draft law under the procedure of the Riigikogu, during which the draft law on compensation for damage caused in the course of the criminal proceedings was born. In addition, the current State Liability Act needs to be processed and amendments tabled in the near future, in particular as regards the deprivation of liberty outside the criminal proceedings and the liability of the court. So the Riigikogu takes the decisions of the Supreme Court with full seriousness and thoroughness, and the relevant decisions are definitely coming. But now, with a big picture in mind, as my good colleague Marko Pomerants often recommends to me, I would like to draw my colleagues' attention to the overall state of play, i.e. the extent to which changes are taking place in the area of law enforcement as a whole. There is currently a judicial reform aimed at shortening the time limits for proceedings and increasing the efficiency of judicial work. An institution of the Advocates General was set up alongside the Judges. The provisions relating to the assistance of judges will also be adjusted. There will be changes to the registration arrangements. Last year was the adoption of a large law amending and implementing the law on law enforcement. There is currently a law amending the Penal Code and related other laws, i.e. a revision of the so-called Penal Code, which amends more than 100 acts and carries the spirit of decriminalisation. There is an amendment to the Criminal Code, a follow-up to the new complete text of the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure. The changes that have taken place in the area of law enforcement in recent years, and also in the coming period, are significant. Since a large part of the original legislation was born 10 to 15 years ago, a thorough review of the regulation in the area of law enforcement is certainly justified. It is only to be hoped that these changes will lead to the expected results, clearer rules and more effective legal protection, and that the expected legal peace will come, and executive structures will be able to take their job in a calm manner. Thirdly, I would like to mention one important development in the spirit of amending the Penal Code. This trend is decriminalisation. One of the starting points of this direction is the presentation by the President of the Supreme Court in the Riigikogu in 2010. From the analysis prepared by the Legal Information Department of the Supreme Court at the time, we can read that, four years ago, 580397 unique persons had been entered in the criminal record, 92626 persons had a valid sentence for the criminal case, 361270 persons for the misdemeanour and 64630 persons for both the crime and the misdemeanour. Thus, the penalties in force amounted to a total of 453896 persons. Almost half of the Estonian population was in the criminal record! It was a fact that made us think deeply about whether there was no failure in our law enforcement system. Both infringements and punishment are viewed in a significantly different way by a society that has been severely punished. Currently, there are about 1300 offences in 148 laws in the special laws. The Penal Code contains ca 400 members, branch laws ca 900. In March of this year, we received news that the number of prisoners fell for the first time in the history of re-independence in Estonia below 3000. Although the number of prisoners in Estonia has decreased by about 1000 in the last ten years and the trend continues, we are still the third largest in Europe in terms of the number of prisoners per 1000 inhabitants. The reasons why the state started the review of penal law were very serious. The Penal Code, which was completed last year, and related amendments to other laws, serve, among other things, the purpose of decriminalisation. I'm not trying to say that all criminals must be released. Nevertheless, it seems that people are too deeply seated to know that justice is guaranteed only by a court and fear of prison. For example, if the chairman of the company's board of directors fails to convene a general meeting of shareholders in due time, is it necessary to put him in a cell alongside a thief and a relapst? Is there even a criminal law to be applied? The owners call themselves together and just let go of such a chairman. Or is the failure to provide information on the company's financial position or, for example, the failure to reply to a letter in any case a crime, or should it be punishable by knowingly false statements, rather as a misdemeanour? These questions are answered by the current amendment of the Penal Code. Punishment and out-of-court and prosecutorial proceedings also gain a much more important position in the landscape of penal law. I believe that the work towards decriminalisation in the course of the review of criminal law must continue. For the President of the Supreme Court, however, I wish success and strength! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U66	Thank you. I now ask for the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union Marko Pomerants!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U67	I can do it in five minutes. Good afternoon, President-in-Office, Chairman and colleagues of the Supreme Court. Today's presentation of the President of the Supreme Court is entitled 'Overview of the organisation of court, justice and uniform application of laws'. The President of the Supreme Court is, of course, in the hands of the President of the Supreme Court. Before my colleague Neeme the Great began to give his speech, I thought that there was actually nothing terrible about us about the court order. Your inflammatory speech, good Neeme, but I got the impression it's actually gonna happen. Perhaps every day, inside the organization of this arrangement, it is simply not perceived and perhaps not perceived by the President of the Supreme Court. On the other hand, as an experienced lawyer and a person working in the public sector, you will probably have the wisdom to wait for what happens to these things and then to add steam to where it makes sense. Why make a lot of big words first? A very large part of the report was devoted to the state fees for civil proceedings. On these, I agree with my colleague, Rait Maruste. All right, the court used three different methods of establishing constitutional fees in practice, but I think that within such cooperation, the judicial system itself could certainly have reached one by a rather simple method instead of the three. All right, now the legislator has also intervened to give it a chance. But I don't think it's actually such a big question, which doesn't mean that the fee shouldn't be constitutional. Now for the three proposals. I've already told you about the second proposal. I am quite sure that both of them will be left to discuss the new Parliament. The current government coalition is trying to squeeze water out of the stone here in order to get all of its promises fulfilled in this little time, so there is not much resource and time to open up new topics. Which does not mean, however, that the first proposal, concerning the analysis of the Code of Procedure and the establishment of a single regulation for out-of-court dispute resolution bodies, is in any way inappropriate. But it probably just takes regular scheduled work, not any quick political action. It is certainly interesting in its own right to consider the third proposal whether to include parliamentary groups in the constitutional review proceedings to initiate a group of entitled persons. This is certainly also a matter of political debate. At first glance, you might think that half the arguments are more than counter-arguments. We will see if some of the electoral programmes that concern the next spring can have such an initiative in any way, but no one will rule out this debate in this Chamber. Thank you for the work you've done. It can be said that even though there is daily criticism of some individual issues, the trial in the Republic of Estonia is possible and legitimate. Which doesn't mean there's no room for improvement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U68	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Thank you once again to the President of the Supreme Court and all members of the Riigikogu for their active participation! The second item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U69	We will move on to the third item on the agenda, which is the second reading of § 20 of the Act on Supplementing Medicinal Products, which was initiated by the Social Affairs Committee. Etti Kagarov, member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu Chair, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U70	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The first reading of the draft Act supplementing § 20 of the Pharmaceutical Act was completed on 4 June 2013. No amendments were tabled by members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees. Pursuant to § 43 of the Product Compatibility Act and Directive 98/34/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council, the draft was notified to the European Commission and other Contracting States. The draft was discussed at the meetings of the Committee on Social Affairs on 20 May and 2 June this year. The Committee on Social Affairs decided by consensus to propose an amendment. The amendment of § 20 of the Pharmaceutical Act to the provision that the export of a medicinal product covered by a price agreement under the Health Insurance Act is permitted with the consent of the marketing authorisation holder and can only be refused if the export of the medicinal product could lead to a disruption of the supply of the medicinal product in Estonia. In its Communication, the European Commission stated that public bodies should be involved in the achievement of public objectives. The Court examined the same situation in the Lélos case. The Court held that, in the event of a deficiency, it is not for the undertakings holding a dominant position on the market to resolve the situation, but for the competent national authorities, which must do so by applying appropriate and proportionate measures and in compliance with national law. In his letter, the Ministry of Social Affairs proposes to supplement section 20 (6) of the Pharmaceutical Act, according to which the Agency may, as an emergency measure, prohibit the export of a medicinal product if ensuring the uninterrupted supply of a medicinal product is essential for the health of a person or animal and that other medicinal products with the same active substance and strength are not marketed or marketed in sufficient quantities in Estonia. The provision gives the Agency the opportunity to react to an emergency situation by banning the export of a medicinal product to ensure that at least an existing supply of medicinal products is available to Estonian pharmaceutical consumers. The emergency situation may occur both within Estonia and in general very unexpectedly, for example in the event of an infectious outbreak, when the need for some medicines is unexpectedly increasing, or if an obstacle is encountered in the production process of the medicinal product. There may also be problems with the quality of some medicines, where appropriate substitution medicines can be found in cooperation with doctors and efforts are made to ensure, as effectively as possible, an adequate supply of substitution medicinal products in the country. It is justified to provide for the possibility of restricting the export of medicinal products to Estonia, as they are goods affecting the life and quality of life of the population. The amendment improves coping with emergency situations, allowing the Estonian Medicines Agency to intervene to ensure the continuity of the supply of medicinal products to Estonian residents. The provision does not ensure that the interests of the marketing authorisation holder or wholesaler are taken into account or the performance of the contract, which is intended to protect human health. As all wholesalers of medicinal products have the same right both to transport medicinal products to Estonia, sell to other wholesalers and to move them out of Estonia, and one or the other wholesaler does not have an overview of the quantities of medicinal products delivered to Estonia, the export ban imposed by the Agency applies to all pharmaceutical operators on an equal basis if necessary. The Ministry of Social Affairs has informed the European Commission of the proposed amendment and has agreed to continue the procedure. The Social Affairs Committee decided by consensus to submit the draft for second reading on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu by 5 June 2014 and to propose that the second reading be terminated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U71	Thank you, dear waitress. There's a question for you. Andrus Ansip, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U72	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! With this draft, are we solving the practical problem that exists now, or is it primarily aimed at preventing problems that might arise hypothetically in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U73	Thank you, good questioner! Yes, they are rather hypothetical problems that may arise in the supply of medicinal products in crisis situations and emergencies, for example in outbreaks of infectious diseases.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U74	Aivar Rosenberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U75	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Do you know how pharmaceutical companies feel about export restrictions?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U76	The pharmaceutical companies asked for the consent of the marketing authorisation holder a year ago. The European Commission did not consider this reasonable, and the Agency has now been given the right to regulate in this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U77	Rein Lang, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U78	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You indicated that the first reading of this draft was completed a year ago. I'm not quite sure that you can give an exhaustive answer to my question right now. I know Mr. Tshkna as someone with a very high capacity for work. Where did this bill lie in the meantime?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U79	Thank you, good questioner! The draft was sent to coordinate the European Commission. The Ministry of Social Affairs coordinated the changes, some of the provisions were omitted. For example, the MAH's consent was included in the previous variant. It was in the European Commission for a year. There is also a requirement that other countries of the European Union are informed. The bill came into this procedure about a month ago, but in the meantime, we had other work to do. That's the process.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U80	Andrus Ansip, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U81	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! In your report, you also referred to the fact that the European Commission has seriously analysed the facts relating to the restrictions and referred to a case of the Court of Justice, the Lélos case, and found it to be the responsibility of the competent national authorities to impose the restrictions. What Rein Lang referred to in his question has also raised doubts and doubts as to whether our pharmaceutical companies will accept the Agency as imposing restrictions?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U82	The European Commission has notified this amendment in a letter from the Ministry of Social Affairs. The European Commission has dealt with this issue of consent and it is not considered justified to seek the consent of wholesalers on this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-05_U83	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. We will begin the examination of the 400 amendments to the draft. One amendment has been received from the lead committee. We have examined the amendments. The position of the commission is to conclude the second reading. The second reading is closed and the third item is also dealt with. Good fellows, thank you. Today's trial is over. I wish you strength in your work! Closure of the sitting at 11.39 a.m.
