ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Happy continuing year to all of us! We will begin the Monday session of the first working week of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U2	Colleagues, may I have your attention, please? Dear Riigikogu, Lauri Vahtre, an alternate member of the Riigikogu, is based in connection with the suspension of the mandate of member of the Riigikogu, Reet Roos. Let's hear Lauri Vahtre's oath. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U3	By taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu as part of the XII Riigikogu, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U4	Now, colleagues, there is an opportunity to pass on enquiries and draft laws. First of all, I ask Mrs Heili Tõnisson, the esteemed speaker.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U5	Madam Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching 11 draft laws today. Firstly, the draft law amending the Law on the organisation of health services and, secondly, the draft law amending the Law on narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances and their precursors. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by the Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas when dealing with these two draft laws. Thirdly, the draft law amending the Packaging Act and the draft law amending the Law amending the Law on public water supply and sewerage. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Minister of the Environment. Fifthly, the draft law amending the Law on the Courts and related other laws; sixthly, the draft law on planning; seventhly, the draft law implementing the Construction Code and the Planning Act and eighthly, the draft law amending the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities. Hanno Pevkur, Minister of Justice, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the four aforementioned draft laws in the Riigikogu. Ninth, the draft law amending the Tax Administration Act, the Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. Tenth, the draft law amending other laws relating to the amendment of the Tax Administration Act, the Government of the Republic is represented in Taavi Rõiva, Minister of Social Affairs, in the Riigikogu. And by the eleventh, the draft Act of Accession to the International Energy Programme Agreement, which the Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U6	Thank you. Please, colleague Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U7	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of 22 members of the Riigikogu, I will report an inquiry to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, regarding the faulty organisation of passenger train traffic. In the beginning of the year, the Ministry of Economic Affairs is largely responsible for the problems of train traffic, which concluded an agreement with Elron on behalf of the State, which is full of mistakes. The obligations imposed on the railway undertaking are superficial and in some respects conflicting. For example, the required number of train departures and train requirements will only apply in April, although the trains were travelling three months earlier. The Ministry did not take into account the higher performance of trains in peak hours when ordering the state, which is why trains are full of wood and people have to stand up for a long time. At times, it seems that the Minister has not understood that the railways carry people and goods according to different rules. If it was known that some of the new trains would only arrive in Estonia in the summer, why didn't another carrier have a half-year contract so that people could still be transported? The duck also has to tell us why he didn't order the heads of the state company as soon as he found out that Elron wasn't fulfilling the contract. Finally, we also want to know that since the Minister for Economic Affairs has followed a scandal during his term of office, whether he has not thought of abandoning his office and coming back here to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U8	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U9	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to pass on the request of 11 members of the Riigikogu to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. The inquiry concerns statements by the Minister of Defence: 'In the beginning of this year, Minister of Defence Urmas Reinsalu gave a speech at the International Centre for Strategic Studies in Washington, D.C. on the development of NATO's capabilities and problems. Reinsalu repeatedly pointed out in his speech that NATO's strong balance in the Baltic countries is not for the benefit of the alliance, but for the benefit of other countries. As 'other countries', the minister named 'our good friend Russia'. He also recalled the departure of the last tank in the United States from Europe last spring and stated that 'we miss this tank'. In addition to the previous speech, it is quite appropriate to recall the earlier statement by the Minister of Defence before the Georgian parliamentary elections. At the time, Mr. Minister openly said that the Russian puppet that created the opposition coalition in Georgia's Dreams was Bidzina Ivanishvili. Estonia has so far been guided by the principle that each country decides for itself the national political direction voted by the people. Taking such a position seems to be a very clear trial of the domestic policy of another country. This statement had been reported to have taken place at the counseling of Eerik-Niles Kross and Mart Laar. ' We will ask the Minister four questions. The first of these: were the positions set out in the Washington speech agreed with the President, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs or, as in the speech concerning the Georgian state, only with Kross and Laar? In addition, there are three other questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U10	Thank you. Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U11	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, I have a referral from the members of the Centre Party to the Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aavikkogu. This concerns needs-based education support. We also asked the Minister about this in the last Question Time last year, but we did not get the right answers. It is also understandable because it is difficult to answer very specific questions like this. The point is that according to the law, the student is granted a need-based education allowance based on the income of his or her family. Unlike other social laws, the family is not a real family within the meaning of this law, but a family of biological parents and siblings and half-sisters. This means that if there is a single mother who has a student's child, or if a student has a stepfather or stepmother and biological parents live somewhere in Australia and earn huge money there, then this young person will be deprived of need-based education because his biological parents are rich. At the same time, no Estonian law provides that if a marriage is divorced, a father, for example, must pay his child a living during his university studies. That is why we are asking the Minister what he is going to do to make this right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U12	Thank you. I have adopted 11 draft laws and three inquiries on behalf of the board. If the draft laws comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board will decide on their procedure within three working days. If inquiries comply with the same law, I shall immediately forward them to the addressees. Now I'll give you the following messages. Firstly, due to the end of the mandate of the member of the Riigikogu, Maret Maripuu, due to his appointment as Director General of the Labour Inspectorate, since 1 January 2014 Terrje Trei, an alternate member of the Riigikogu has become a member of the Riigikogu. Secondly, the Management Board of the Riigikogu has registered the member of the Riigikogu Terje Trei as a member of the Estonian Reform Party. Thirdly, the Board of the Riigikogu has approved a member of the Social Committee of Terje Trei, a member of the Riigikogu. Fourthly, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted a draft of the Riigikogu decision "Voting Saale Lao as a Member of the Supreme Court" submitted on 20 December last year and has appointed it as the leading committee of the Constitutional Commission. Fifthly, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic. a Draft Communication from the European Commission on the rescue and restructuring of non-financial firms in difficulty, submitted on 9 January, to the European Commission on European Union affairs. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed an Economic Commission to give an opinion on the position and draft communication of the Government of the Republic. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 23 January 2010 at 4 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, please, let us now do the presence check. 94 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 7. We will go to the adoption of this week's agenda, but first I will announce a small change in the agenda. May I have your attention, please? The Social Democratic Party Group has proposed to exclude the first reading of the draft law amending § 29 of the Citizenship Act from the agenda of the Tuesday plenary session. With this addition, I will put this week's agenda to the vote. Please vote! 94 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U13	We will begin the processing of today's agenda items, i.e. replies to inquiries. The first is an inquiry by Riigikogu members Kalle Laaneti, Lembit Kaljuvee, Rainer Vakra, Deniss Borodichi, Kalev Kotkas, Jaan Õunapuu, Helmen Küti, Eiki Nestor, Heljo Pikhofi, Neeme Suur, Rein Randver, Indrek Saare, Andres Anvelt and Inara Luigas on 20 November last year (No 369). I would like to ask my colleague, Kalle Laanet, to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U14	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! First of all, I wish everyone a beautiful year of work! On 20 November last year, 14 members of the Riigikogu submitted an inquiry to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. It's about the future of ferry traffic. I'm not going to read the Fabula part, I'm just going to read the questions. We had five questions. Firstly, 'When and by whom has an analysis or a cost-benefit study been carried out before the sole shareholder's decision to acquire four ferry vessels for the State? ' The second question: 'How does the Port of Tallinn guarantee the average annual profitability of the project in the sector concerned in the open market economy conditions? ' On the third question, we had a minor flaw, so I want to clear it up. This concerned the organisation of public procurement for the design, construction and delivery of four new ships, and we wanted to know if it was hopelessly delayed if the ships were to board the route on 1 January 2016. In fact, it is planned to start on 1 October 2016, so it is not hopelessly delayed. Fourthly, 'Why does the Ministry under your command not provide the members of the Riigikogu with the information they ask for and necessary for their work? ' Fifth: 'After the second reading of this year's state budget, the Riigikogu increased the ferry rates by about 600,000 euros, with the aim of tightening the timetables. How has this money been used? ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U15	Thank you very much, Mr Kalle Laane. Now, please, Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts of the Speaker's Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U16	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable members of the Riigikogu, including honoured heirs! I'll answer that question. The first question: 'When and by whom has an analysis or a cost-benefit study been carried out before the sole shareholder's decision to acquire four ferry vessels for the State? 'The Ministry of Economic Affairs started analysing the acquisition of ships in October 2011. The clarification of different scenarios and assumptions resulted in a proposal approved by the Government of the Republic a few months ago. The main conclusions were two. Firstly, it was considered that the acquisition of ships by the State would be considerably cheaper for the taxpayer than the continuation of the current arrangements. Savings are mainly due to lower freight charges. Based on the information we have now, we've been reeling about how much we're saving. The annual charter fees would be approximately EUR 6 million for three ships and, when compared to the charter fees for four ships under current conditions, we will have a savings of EUR 8 million per year for taxpayers. The EUR 6 million per year to be saved would amount to more than 40% of the current subsidy and would be in the same order of magnitude as the total 2012 ticket revenue. For the amount to be saved, it would be practically possible to have a fourth ship built or purchased. The second conclusion of the government's discussion was that, in addition to the savings in the form of lower subsidies, the acquisition of vessels into the ownership of the State company also allows for real competition in the competition of the operator of the regular service. This will enable the service to be provided with less support. On the basis of the results of the analysis, the best solution for the country was developed to ensure ferry connections. According to this, the State-owned company procures four new or second-hand ferry vessels and is chartered to the operator that won the subsequent operator competition. The second question: 'How does the Port of Tallinn guarantee the average annual profitability of the project in the sector concerned in the open market economy conditions? ' There hasn't been a market competition in the last 20 years for the island-continental ferry connection. Since 1994, there has been one operator on these routes, although several competitions have been organised to find the operator. During the 2000-2012 period, the cost of one trip on these routes has increased two or three times. The increase in costs is partly linked to the increase in quality, but in general, the conclusion of each new public service contract has led to another leap in costs and State subsidies. The cost of the public regular service increased sharply as a result of the 2006 competition. In 2007, the cost of the connection was EUR 4.4 million higher than before the competition. This meant an increase of more than 40%. According to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, no ferry that could be used on the routes of Saaremaa and Hiiumaa has been used on the ship market without having to be heavily rebuilt. It is also not foreseen that the ferry market will change significantly for the next contract period starting at the end of 2016. The reason is simple. In general, ships are built in the light of specific routes and there are simply no routes comparable to Rahuküla and Rahuküla in the nearby region, given the requirements of the ice class and the low draught. Therefore, at the end of 2016, we would be more likely to be in a situation where only one operator participates in the operator competition and it is difficult to talk about market competition or market economy at all in such a situation. There is simply no competition and this allows the state to charge an unreasonable high price. It is therefore necessary to act as an investor in the State and, in accordance with State aid rules, the State must behave as an investor in the same way as a private investor. In view of this principle, the State company must also make a reasonable profit on its investment. A reasonable profit is considered to be the average profitability of a particular sector. Thus, the State company has the possibility, as well as the obligation, to charge future ship users a fee covering their costs and allowing them to make a reasonable profit. The third question: "Is the public procurement for the design, construction and delivery of four new ships on 1 January 2016 not hopelessly delayed? ' No, because, first of all, we are not talking here from 1 January 2016, but from 1 October 2016. Secondly, if the competition results in the construction of new ferries, some of which may be completed later than October 2016, then in the meantime, public procurement should simply be announced under the same conditions as so far and the State would not have to conclude an operator agreement for 10 years, but could also be completed for a shorter period until the ships acquired by the State company are ready to come on the route. I would add that, given the discussions that have been held with the owners of current ships and their representatives, we cannot necessarily talk about the need to build a new ship, but we are still waiting for the owners of ships currently serving the routes to take part in the competition. Question 4: 'Why does the Ministry you manage not forward to the members of the Riigikogu the information requested by them and necessary for their work? ' Kalle Laane, a member of the Riigikogu, has requested that the material sent to him on 12 September 2013 by the State Chancellery and discussed at the meeting of the Cabinet on 26 September 2013 on the future of ferry traffic between the mainland and the islands be forwarded to him. This material is labelled as "Intra-Institutional use' for two reasons. The material was submitted before the decision was taken and contains business secrets from the current shipowners. The Ministry has a contractual agreement not to disseminate confidential business information that we have received from current shipowners. That is why a member of the Riigikogu received a summary forwarded to Mr Laanet, which did not include a business secret invoice. This Mr Laanet was not satisfied and he asked for all the material, stressing the rights of a member of the Riigikogu. As a result, on 25 November, Mr Laanet received an e-mail indicating that the Ministry was prepared to forward a document to him. However, Mr Laanet was asked to confirm that he was complying with the obligation to keep the information contained in the written document confidential. However, we have not received that confirmation from Mr Laanet. The brief answer is that we are obliged to protect the business secrets of third parties that we have been informed about. Question 5: 'After the second reading of this year's state budget, the Riigikogu increased the ferry rates by about 600000 euros with the aim of tightening the timetables. How has this money been used? " First of all, it is recalled that during the 2013 state budget procedure, there was also a regulation on the rise in the price of ferry tickets. The purpose of the additional allocation was, in particular, to discourage the price increase of tickets. As a result of this additional allocation, ticket prices were increased by around 15% instead of the planned 25% to ensure a sustainable and tailored schedule for passengers. The trips planned at the beginning of the year have all been completed. In this respect, the state financing has been carried out in the first ten months of this year compared to the same period in 2012 Virtsu-Kuivastu on the route ca 475 trips, Heltermaa-Rohuküla on the route ca 115 trips and Sõru-Tartu on the route 73 more trips. As a result of the tightening of the graphs, the costs of regular services in 2013 increased by more than EUR 500000. The total cost of the line increased by slightly more than EUR 1,2 million, with more than 40% resulting from the increase in passenger numbers. In addition to what was agreed at the beginning of the year, additional journeys have been made per year on all three ferry lines, if justified and necessary. It is important to note that the costs of regular ferry transport are covered by two sources: the state budget allocation and the current revenue from tickets. The surplus for 2013 was mainly due to higher than expected revenue from tickets. At the beginning of the year, not so much revenue was forecast; due to the increase in the price of tickets, it was assumed that the number of passengers would not increase, but in fact demand has increased. We believe that much of this can be attributed to the very beautiful and warm summer that increased tourist flows. Costs were saved by a fall in fuel prices, partly by a reduction in the non-acceptance of commercial travel. At the same time, it has also excluded ticket revenue from the calculation of the State subsidy. The approach that the amount allocated from the state budget is a special provision which in any case must be paid to the carrier, irrespective of whether there is demand for travel or not, is not justified. The budgetary resources for public transport must be used in a sustainable manner, taking into account actual demand and needs. The fact that ticket revenue is higher than planned does not mean that taxpayers' money must in any case be spent and that trips must also be made at times when there is no need for it. The amount not used in 2013 will start this year. This will enable us to cover the increasing costs of regular services and prevent another price increase that would otherwise result. Thus, the money will be used to support public transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U17	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's start by answering questions. Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U18	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good minister! Passenger trains were old demolished trains, but we have very good ships moving between the islands. You yourself have only recently thanked Mr Leedo in this remote area for serving the routes so well, but the question is that too much money is being asked. Have you seriously considered in the ministry that if the current waitress wins the 2016 competition, what will the state start with the four ships they ordered? If they're not available on the market, the market probably doesn't want them.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U19	Thank you. I'll ask you what kind of competition you're talking about. Once again, if the state does not procure ships, whether they are second-hand or new, the results of the 2016 call are likely to lead to significantly more use of taxpayers' money. I mentioned here that, in the case of the procurement of three ships, we estimate savings of EUR 6 million, EUR 8 million for four ships, mainly due to lower charter fees. It is therefore purely capital expenditure. In view of the average and reasonable return on the market and the debt resources available to the State, this capital investment can be made more rationally. The State can then organise an operator competition, as we have launched them to communicate with the smaller islands. There is reason to believe that in this case there will be an actual competition. These were the experiences of the past, I referred here to 2006, but in 2004 there were also two competitions in which only those who had ships suitable for connecting with Saaremaa and Hiiumaa were allowed to participate, that there was only one bidder. This has meant a significant increase in the burden on the taxpayer.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U20	Please, Mr Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U21	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! In one final briefing, when I asked you about the allocation of the EUR 600,000, you replied that the carrier had received all the money. They say it's stupid that something's missing. But let's look at those locks. The 2013 state budget states EUR 15687000 in advance, your report shows that the carrier has received EUR 15297873. These figures don't exactly match. I understand that, one way or another, you had very quick and very many problems at the end of last year. Do you admit that the information given in Question Time was wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U22	Absolutely not. You know, I'm very familiar with this question. I also came to Saaremaa during the summer. Kuressaare is a small town, I know almost decimal places there. Once again, the state orders connections. As many connections are needed, long and complex negotiations are being conducted with the local community. The state is monitoring demand very closely and, as a result, it is every trip that will pay for it. State money for this purpose comes from two sources: one is ticket revenue and the other is a subsidy from the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U23	Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U24	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Secretary, how can this hall believe what you're saying? When we went to the open electricity market, you said that the price of electricity was going down. You have also told us how successful our oil shale industry is far from home. We have heard from you about the great future of Estonian Air under Taskila and other things about how well everything goes and how all mistakes are corrected and everything goes well under new leadership. We can see there's no results. We were talking about new diesel trains. Now we see that we are... can't even tell where we are. I mean, all the activities you've praised from this remote control have been largely sanded. How, then, can we believe your words that the ladies are going to walk well and that they must be nationalized, etc.?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U25	All of your claims are the inaccurate talk of such a relatively mediocre, even failed propaganda, so as not to say wrong. But if you ask me any further questions about these five arguments, I will start to comment on them in a row from the point of view of the functioning of the electricity market, as well as possible investments in the oil shale industry outside Estonia. But as you put it, let it be on your conscience if you believe it all. I recommend not to believe, but to work with basic materials, specific information. I'm sure you'll come to a different conclusion.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U26	Please, Mr Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U27	Thank you. Working with basic material and facts, I have come to the clear understanding that since you like Stadler's trains, you have bought trains with two or three hours' travel time, short-haul car design, where there are no tamburiers to keep the car warm, where the seats are opposite, so that people cannot sit there normally, and where there are not enough nails to hang their clothes in. Now the Ministry of the Economy is going to buy new roasts. Is there no danger of buying cruise liners to move between islands, for example? Perhaps the same logic applies to them just more than any other type of ship.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U28	You asked me a question. The answer is no.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U29	Please, Mr Kalvi Tough!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U30	Thank you, President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! The direction of the state getting its own ships and becoming an operator, I like it in itself. But I'm concerned about the time for that. In October 2016, these ships should be ready to pick up people and start travelling between the continent and the islands. You are now in the early stages of this cycle of work, just starting to announce procurement. Perhaps in 2016, we are in such a state that we simply have to buy the existing ships from the Saaremaa Shipping Company.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U31	The question of whether there is still time is certainly correct. I already answered that when I addressed the third question. At the same time, I heard your benchmate's doubts, he proposed such a solution that we would launch a competition in spring 2016. But then we would get a result that taxpayers would not like very much. I actually think we're on a pretty reasonable schedule. It is certainly our desire to make this transition in substantive cooperation with current operators and also with shipowners. It is quite obvious that this will lead to an increase in the efficiency of the country. Of course, there are people who don't like this plan very much. But it would be nice if the Riigikogu and others made it clear to themselves that it would probably be reasonable for all taxpayers to go along with this plan. As soon as current ship owners and line operators realise that there are no weak factions in the Riigikogu from their point of view, cooperation may go even better than we have done so far. Actually, you might want to take some time to stay over. Ship owners have been in contact with us since 2010 and 2011, and they have actually expressed their wish in one way or another to become owners of these vessels. If a national company organises this competition and they decide to participate in it, there is even time left. This is certainly a very important point of view. I don't know what the owners think right now, but they have to consider how to act. But they have expressed a clear desire to sell three ships to the state, which have been built to communicate with Saaremaa and Hiiumaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U32	Please, Mr Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. First of all, I congratulate you that you have realised that, in certain cases, it is really economically feasible if the state is the master. For example, train and vessel traffic management. I have a brief question for you. Do you not fear that your ministry has, let us call them, biased forces who are unable or unwilling to properly implement your country-manly social democratic ideas?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U34	It's the question again! Definitely not. The Ministry employs highly dedicated and professional analysts in this field. There's no such problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U35	Please, Mr Karel Knight!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U36	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I might understand your goals better if the state took over the operation and announced a public procurement and a competition for the ship service. At the moment, I do not quite understand why you think that, for example, a subsidiary of the Port of Tallinn of AS will achieve better results under open market economy conditions than the current operator. We know more or less how much ships cost and how much servicing costs. Do you think you'll be able to get new ships at a lower rate than the current operator and owner of the ships?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U37	Just for information: there were other companies in the government that could do this job. And one thing must certainly be done in addition to this step in the country. The state's real estate was once concentrated in a single company and, in fact, the state's fleet has become so large that, step by step, it would make sense to concentrate the state's fleet under a single management. I said very specific figures here. These figures are based on an in-depth analysis based on the precise data on the evolution of the capital expenditure of existing vessels. The main win comes first of the fact that the productivity rate is currently much higher than could be reasonable given the potential creditors. It's a remarkable victory. Secondly, as a number of investments have shown, the price of money to the State company is actually cheaper than to the ordinary company. This is the current reality. There will be considerable savings. In addition, it is difficult to assess and may not be necessary, but if the state is able to organise a substantive competition, then perhaps we will see several players in the Estonian ship operators' market. It's a completely separate subject. There was a lot of talk about trains here. In the case of trains, the problem is rather that we need to analyse very professionally whether a number of operators are able to operate in the market. We can see that this may be possible, and I think we will get a fairer and more transparent price if there is transparent competition from operators, but the infrastructure in the form of ships is under state control. But it makes sense to talk about the austerity or victory that comes from there compared to today when the competition has been held.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U38	Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U39	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. Since the time to announce procurements and to build new ships is clearly short, does this whole process of obtaining ferry actually end up with Saaremaa, Hiiumaa and Muhumaa, or the three existing ferry ships, being bought from the current owners? Is this the emergency exit when we're running out of time?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U40	The government wishes to conduct a competition, i.e. a competition, not a procurement of two different options, both for the construction of ships and for the purchase of ships, if they fulfil the conditions defined by the State. As regards the conditions that we determine, investors in existing ships have done a very good job. There are some individual parameters that can be adjusted in the light of practice, but ships are generally designed and well done for these routes. Once again, this competition has several options. Of course, the important question is whether existing shipowners will take part in this competition and offer their three vessels or not. I don't know how to answer for them. If there is no offer, it is possible for the state to have ships built. If we look at the timetable for the construction and design of ships, at best, the ship will be completed in two and a half years, for how many ships it will probably take a little longer. So I admit that if all four new ships are to be built, there may be some difficult period, but I believe that in this case, it will be possible to reach an agreement with the operator. We can always tender for a year or two, depending on exactly what the situation is.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U41	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U42	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. I think it is right that the state is the owner of the ships. The question is how to acquire them, either by having them built or purchased on the market. Can't we try to buy them on the market a year before we make this competition with the construction of ships? Would it provide a clearer picture and also a price comparison? Or am I thinking wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U43	This competition is still intended for the purchase and/or construction of vessels. In any case, we need one more ship, that's the government's position. We know that today's investors have three new ships. This must be a consensual understanding that four ships are needed to serve the Saaremaa and Hiiumaa routes. If we're offered these three ships, we still have to build one more. The agreement on the operation of these vessels will be valid until the end of 2016 and it will be possible to start preparing the operator's competition on their basis. There is no contradiction here. It's just the problem of the little time that we've been talking about here today, but for three ships, it might fall away. The question of the fourth ship, of course, must be resolved; it must certainly be built when we think ahead of 20 to 25 years.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U44	Please, colleague Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U45	Thank you. Dear Minister, Over the years, ferry traffic has caused passion, and one of your predecessors has had to resign. Another problem is the self-deployment of the Ministry. It says that the subsidies are big, and the company keeps trying to increase them. I do not understand a bit whether the Ministry does not have its levers to better control the whole issue and to provide cheaper service to the taxpayer. But the question is about the organisation of a competition and the purchase or construction of ships. Is it possible to use money from outside Estonia in the same way as trains, or is it not possible to do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U46	I didn't quite understand the question. Your first question was whether the Ministry couldn't contain the carrier. Once again, the rate of subsidy, the operator's chartered ships and the pricing of tickets have been agreed with the current operator after the 2006 competition. When you listened to my answer, you know that it is usually the case that each of these competitions has received a qualified offer with ships that satisfy us. This is where the price, together with the various price indices, shape the country's dot. Today we are talking about what will happen at the 2016 competition. The last time the competition was conducted by Savisaar, I assume at best will, the subsidy increased by 40% compared to the previous one. This added EUR 4.4 million per year. That's a hell of a jump! The current operator is concerned and declares that its activities are loss-making as freight charges are very high. He's got three new ships. This is not the country's immediate concern, but that is the question. Why else Kalle Laanet always makes various accusations to me, and from time to time the Estonian Päevaleht gives me instructions in his editorial on how to proceed in this field. Unfortunately, we cannot meet at the moment to help meet the operator's obligations on freight charges and to help other companies operating there. Everyone wants to put butter on their bread, bring these responsibilities to the country and ask for an increase in subsidies. In this respect, we have always been very firm in our position and we are now offering a solution for ensuring that the link with the islands is reasonable from the point of view of all taxpayers and, in fact, I believe, also useful for shipowners and operators. But I didn't quite understand the question. Is the money coming from outside or inside? Money's money, he's coming from somewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U47	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. Do you want to open negotiations? I would like to ask my colleague, Kalle Laanet, to negotiate.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U48	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! I would like to explain the fourth question. This concerns the transmission of information to members of the Riigikogu. Yes, I was the one who turned to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, as the Minister claimed. But I did not address them as one of the members of the Riigikogu, but also as the head of the Association of Parliamentary Islands. I had agreed with the members of the envoy that I would ask for these materials. Secondly, if we had received answers from the Ministry in the long term, it took us a week or a little more each time, then I did not really sign the confidentiality agreement. I sent a reply to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications saying that I alone do not need this information, it is necessary for the Riigikogu Association of Islands to discuss the future. I asked them for an answer, but they missed it. So much for explaining this question. The minister made it look like I didn't do anything, but in fact, the ministry didn't answer my last e-mail. To be honest, I have also approached the officials of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu with the question of whether it is not necessary to amend the law so that members of the Riigikogu always receive from the ministries the information they need to do their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U49	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U50	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The general principle of organising future ferry connections between the mainland and Hiiumaa and Saaremaa with state-owned ships and finding the operator by competition is basically very correct. Toivo Jürgenson, former Minister of Roads and Communications, spoke about this already in 2000. That was a very courageous position at the time, because it was already thought that the country was a bad host. Unfortunately, it has taken more than ten years for the Jürgenson message to arrive. In December 2011, an in-depth study on this subject was carried out at the request of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, which once again proved the correctness and justification of the association based on public vessels. Unfortunately, two more years were simply passed, and it was only last autumn that the government decided to take action. The social democrats are concerned by the fact that in just over two and a half years, which separates us from the current line agreement, it is not possible to prepare and carry out procurements for the design, construction and construction of four new ferry ships. It's just that there's no such free capacity in the shipyards waiting for someone to have four ferry ships built overnight, figuratively speaking. There is indeed another option that the state will buy the ships used by the current operator, but there are three suitable instead of the four required. One still needs to be found or built. Since decision-making and action have been unacceptably lengthy, this second option is most likely to materialise. However, this also means that the state has, in a sense, played a corner by stretching itself. When selling the only suitable ships available on the market at the last minute, the seller dictates the price, so the state is clearly the weaker side of this transaction. At the moment, we need to act very wisely so that we do not get caught up in the new Elron-type mess in the autumn of 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U51	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U52	Let's go to the next question. Members of the Riigikogu Marika Tuus-Laul, Vladimir Velman, Lauri Laas, Ester Tuiksoo, Priit Toobal, Viktor Vassilyev, Kalev Kallo, Urbo Vaarmann and Mailis Reps submitted an inquiry into the family medical system on 11 November last year. Marika Tuus-Lauli, colleague of the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U53	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good Minister and colleagues! We submitted this question a little more than two months ago, and the subject is the family medical system. However, we know that there are still a lot of problems in the family medical system, as in healthcare at large. These problems were very acutely highlighted by the National Audit Office in its thorough audit of "Organisation of family care' a few years ago. The National Audit Office pointed out that the availability of family medical care has deteriorated and waiting times have increased. Now these problems are even more acute. In particular, the problem of poor access to medical care concerns rural areas. We are facing a shortage of staff. The exodus of doctors and other health professionals is, as we know, very great. Some doctors work around the limit of time and only a few days a month here, which of course doesn't satisfy the patients. Even if, as a family doctor, all doctors who have completed family medical training will be employed in the future, in a few years' time we will have less than half of family doctors, also because 72% of current family doctors will reach retirement age during this period. The big question mark relates to the training of doctors. We know that no agreement has been reached with the Estonian Medical Association here. Well, it was a deal, and it was signed, but the government is acting differently now. Here, too, the main question is that we will not have enough family doctors in the future. We don't know how many doctors we've got going on right now. If we don't know the starting point, we don't know how to plan anything. Of course, there are major problems with underfunding, lack of research funding, lack of time and low incomes of rural doctors. One problem is that patients would like home visits, even if only to sick children, but doctors cannot make these visits now. A separate question, which may be a little enlightened by the Minister alongside other questions, is the creation of new first-level family medicine centres, or health centres. We wonder how far it is, how many centres are being made, who are losing them and what the availability of family medical care will be in rural areas, even worse than it is now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U54	Thank you very much. Please speak with the esteemed Minister of Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U55	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will respond to your inquiry into the family medical system. I'll read the questions. Question 1: 'The State control recommendation states that the state should ensure the number of residents of family medical training to the extent necessary. In addition, the state should take measures to bring people who are educated but are currently not working as a family doctor back to the sector. How do you assess the effectiveness of the National Audit Office's recommendation and what specific measures could you consider to bring people who do not work as family doctors back into the sector? ' I would point out that the audit of the National Audit Office referred to was carried out over and over last year. Quite a lot has already been changed during this period and a number of steps have been taken. But let's get in line. In my opinion, there is no doubt that the volume of basic training for doctors needs to be increased, which is exactly the same for other health professionals. This view is supported not only by the Ministry of Social Affairs, but also by the study of Raul-Allan Kiivet, Helle Whiskey and Toomas Asser 'Estonian doctors' forecast for 2032. This position is also supported by a cooperation agreement on good health will with 22 parties. When we drafted it, we were able to speak with one voice in the sector. I have made an appropriate proposal on behalf of the sector to the Ministry of Education and Research, and I very much hope that the Minister of Education and Science will accept it as such. In cooperation with the Faculty of Medicine of the University of Tartu, we have submitted a training order for doctors until 2019. In doing so, we have taken into account not only the needs but also the capacity of the university, which is the figures that we have presented to the Ministry of Education and Research on behalf of the health sector, are certainly realistic. It is not true that we and the representatives of the doctors have different opinions here. On the contrary, the association of general practitioners and the association of doctors have been a party to these discussions and have strongly supported the steps taken by the Ministry to increase the reception capacity of doctors for basic training. I think this support has been very helpful to us. It is clear that when the whole sector speaks with one voice, that voice is stronger. We have also increased the number of residencys in family medicine. We have also increased the order of training for family doctors. In the meantime, after the report of the National Audit Office has been prepared, the state has taken measures to bring doctors back to the health sector. We have created the 'Doctors Back to Health' project. In this context, further training has been organised on three occasions. The aim of the project is to enable graduates of the medical faculty who are not currently working as a doctor or who are not entered in the register of health professionals, if you say in a specialized language, to return to work in the Estonian health care system. It is a three-month programme during which there is internship and theoretical training. Participants in the programme also take an exam. We finance this program from the budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs. This has been done by 42 doctors by now. The popularity of the programme has exceeded our expectations, in many ways thanks to very positive public attention. I therefore believe that its volume could be further increased in the near future. Let us acknowledge that bringing a person with medical education who is currently working outside the healthcare sector back to health is, first, a much faster and, second, a much more financially advantageous option for society than training new doctors from scratch. This does not mean that we should not be intensive about training new doctors, but bringing people with medical education back to healthcare is simply a much faster solution. Question 2: 'The state pays the start-up allowance to young doctors, at the moment the amount of the start-up allowance is EUR 15000. This year the conditions for applying for aid were changed. The aim is to make it easier and more flexible to apply for starting aid. The starting grant has not yet gained popularity among doctors, e.g. last year applied for (it refers to 2012 because this inquiry was submitted last year. Only one person is eligible for starting allowance. With changes to the conditions for applying for starting aid, can we predict an increase in the number of family doctors employed in rural areas? " Yes, it is true that in 2012, only one person applied for and received initial support. It is true that we then made changes to increase the flexibility of the system. Eight applications were received in 2013, six of which were granted. Three of the six applications that had been granted had been submitted by family doctors. Compared to the previous year, the number of applications increased and this trend seems to continue. I hope that starting aid will be an even more effective measure in the future. I recently met an elder in a small rural municipality near the Russian border. We discussed jointly that the start-up grant combined with the municipal measures (this municipality elder offered that the municipality could give an apartment for example) could be attractive enough to invite young people who have recently graduated from the university to work in the municipality. I am pleased that the rural municipalities are very serious about this and inviting people to work in the country more widely. Question 3: 'The State Audit Office found in its audit that the current system does not motivate family doctors to work in rural areas: the income of rural doctors is lower, their working weeks are longer and non-medical work takes longer. Are there currently many rural areas in Estonia that are not covered by the list of family doctors? " There are no rural areas now that are not covered by family medical records. 21 No family doctors have been permanently confirmed to serve the list, but in all these areas medical care is guaranteed by the appointment of a replacement by the Health Board. This substitution system, which has changed significantly since then, has proved to be effective. This does not mean that the 21 areas mentioned are not engaged in the search for a permanent family doctor. But indeed, there are 801 family doctors in Estonia and only 21 of them serve as a permanent replacement. None of the lists are covered by a family doctor. So the argument you raised when you asked your question is, fortunately, not true. Question 4: 'How to ensure quality and equal access to family doctor services in all areas of Estonia? What is the state planning to do to avoid a family doctor being forced to work in Finland? 'In addition to the 'Doctors Back to Health' project, the start-up grant and the replacement system for family doctors, we have taken a number of steps to finance the construction and renovation of primary health centres, for example, through the Structural Funds during the new budget period. This will create modern infrastructure for the primary level and will certainly improve the working conditions of family doctors and family doctors. In the budget of the Health Insurance Fund, funding for family medical care increases faster than most other budget lines, with only care funding growing even faster. This is a fully aware political choice in order to increase and strengthen the role of the primary level of health care in Estonia. Growth is more than 10% this year, we are talking about EUR 85 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U56	Thank you very much, Minister. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U57	Thank you. Good minister! Can you tell us how many doctors currently work in Estonia? I am not talking about how many health professionals are on the register, but about how many people work as doctors.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U58	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U59	Thank you. I have an overview, but for the sake of accuracy, it is better that I answer this question in writing. Then you can point out how many of these doctors work at the hospital and how many at the primary level, and you will get a more accurate overview of these data. But I think you will also find this data yourself, for example, in the reviews of the Institute for Health Development, which you have quoted here before. This data is completely public.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U60	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! Two years have passed since the National Audit Office completed its audit. You claim that huge progress has been made in this time, infrastructure has been built, and whatever, everything goes perfectly and significantly better than it did two years ago. But for some reason, people will write to you at the Ministry and to us. They complain and complain that they cannot get to a doctor, it is impossible to get to a family doctor's appointment in Tallinn because all the lists are full, family doctors do not make house calls and it is impossible to achieve that the family doctor goes home to the patient. So, what's this about? Are people lying? Is everything as fine as you are saying, or are there any problems that you could honestly admit to us here right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U61	Thank you. As usual, in your question, you attributed me quite a lot of arguments that I have not said. But it's nothing, isn't it? It's your role as a questioner. This issue you have raised, the coverage of lists in large cities, is absolutely serious and we are dealing with it. We have spoken openly about the fact that there are people in the family doctors who do not actually live in Estonia long ago, some moved away from Estonia a few decades ago. Actually, they don't use family doctors. With the exception of those on the list, places will be released for people who really need family medical care, as well as for their loved ones. For example, if you and your spouse are patients of a family doctor, you will most likely want your children to be listed with the same doctor. It is very important that a family doctor's appointment is available for such situations. This change has now been made at the level of the government in cooperation with the association of family doctors and with the very support of family doctors. It was a month or two ago when we made that change. I very much hope that no more of these letters will come to you, and no family doctor will be forced to tell anyone that his list is completely full. This change will improve the ability of family doctors to assist patients. This also means improving the financing of family doctors, because those who are uninsured never go to the doctor and maybe live far away from Estonia, such as Australia, do not receive a bounty, but in the list they kept the place. We have been active in solving this problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U62	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U63	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I have a question. I have to be honest with you, I don't know the answer to that. Is a family doctor obliged to make house calls? If not, why? If so, in which case?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U64	Thank you very much. There are no further questions for the Minister. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U65	Thank you. This could once again be explained to you in writing, because there may be certain special cases here, and since I am not extra prepared to answer this question, I may be wrong in the details. But it is true in principle that the possibility for family doctors to make house calls is not too great, especially in terms of time. In practice, there are enough family doctors who make visits, but I am not quite sure under what conditions this obligation is provided for in the law. I would rather answer this question in writing, then you will get a more detailed overview.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U66	Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I think everyone agrees that there are two major shortcomings in healthcare: the shortage of doctors, nurses and care workers, or their so-called emigration and chronic lack of money. Speaking of figures, in recent years, some 400 health professionals have taken the certificate needed to work abroad each year. Since Estonia's accession to the European Union, some 3,000 health professionals have taken this certificate. According to the black scenario offered by researchers from the University of Tartu, the number of doctors may fall from 4500 to around 2,500 over the next 20 years. As far as family medicine is concerned, yes, the National Audit Office made a pretty comprehensive overview of it in 2011. He found out that in 20 years, we will have 60 family doctors even less than we do now, and even training new doctors here will not save us. Even if everyone we train as a family doctor goes to this job, we have to consider that a lot of doctors reach retirement age. We must also remember that over 80 family doctors have taken evidence to work abroad over the last five years. So the numbers are like this. But there are also problems with doctors' training. I would like to say to the Minister that if, according to him, everything has been coordinated with the Estonian Medical Union here, it is certainly not the case. I have a document recently sent by the Medical Association to the Minister. It shows that doctors disagree with what they have offered and want answers to their questions. Namely, the Estonian Medical Association has its own opinion on the training, the common language has not been found here. However, a document on the need for national places of study for medical training has been agreed and signed at the time. This was done in 2012 when there was a medical strike. This topic was agreed on in the so-called consensus agreement. This agreement was signed at the time by the Minister of Social Affairs, Ministry of Education and Research, Faculty of Medicine of the University of Tartu, Association of Doctors, Association of Hospitals and Association of Family Doctors. However, the Ministry has not complied with this agreement and has put in place its own plan, which the Minister mentioned here. Now they want the doctors to agree. Both in this last letter and in the past, the Association of Doctors stressed in the consensus agreement that it is very important to know all kinds of other factors when planning the number of students to study as a doctor, without their analysis it is not possible to establish these figures. Firstly, the exact number of doctors working in Estonia and their burden should be determined. You can't plan anything without it. In order to assess the need for places of study, it is essential to know in particular how many doctors are currently working in Estonia. According to the consensus agreement, the optimal number was 320 doctors per 100000 inhabitants. This requirement is also set out in this most recent document submitted by doctors. The doctors asked for clarification on the basis of which the numbers of study places of the medical faculty in the current plan for the years 2013 to 2018 have been obtained. In their opinion, the fact that some doctors leave abroad, some reach retirement age has not been taken into account in their assessment of the number of other important factors. All of this leads to the conclusion that the state does not have a specific overview, has no record of how many doctors there are now, and does not know how much more training is needed. Although the shortage of family doctors is a national problem, it is still more acute in rural areas. When we asked questions, there were no family doctors in many places. By the end of the year, these places were filled, but these doctors are not settled in, but are temporarily working there. Let us hope that this situation improves. The same was true of the starting grant. Indeed, only one application existed at the time the enquiry was made. Now these conditions have been changed. More than two months have passed since the referral and the situation has changed. Too bad we didn't get a faster answer. At the time of the start-up aid, we asked for these conditions to be improved. We've foreseen that these conditions wouldn't apply to the family doctors, let's just say so. Of course, there are many problems in the country. Doctors working there have a lower income. Young doctors find that working as a family doctor is not attractive because research money has been reduced and minor surgery procedures can be done less. Thus, working as a family doctor does not provide motivation for young doctors. That's what a doctor asked me to say in this room. Yeah, we really do have doctors and family nurses, but an ex-patient wants to see a doctor. The Director General of the Health Board, Tiiu Aro, has also confirmed that people are still waiting for a meeting with the doctor. A year ago, there was some talk about the creation of primary health centres. The report by the family doctors says that these centres are going to be in 47 attraction centres and that medical care should then be available to patients within a 30 km radius. But these are so long-term figures, and there is no map of it. We'd like to know a little bit about what's coming. In any case, the concentration of family doctors in attraction centers is certainly a problem for rural people. We fear that rural people will suddenly get even worse in the future, even though the availability of this aid is still disastrously poor. So we want to get more specific answers. This is what both patients and doctors want so that there will be no reform in office silence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U67	Thank you very much. The Minister would like to speak. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U68	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! It is not a question of the point of view whether it is a pity that the answer did not come faster, or it is a pleasure that in the meantime, the problems have actually been dealt with and, as you rightly said, a number of problems have been solved. I think it is rather positive that these problems, which we understand in the same way, can also be resolved quickly. I would now like to answer those questions that I owed before I answered. At the end of 2012 (the state of the end of 2013 can also be found when looking a little bit) there were 4357 doctors working in Estonia. Thus, there were far more than 320 doctors per 100,000 inhabitants. This does not mean that the problem does not matter. It is also necessary to ensure a sustainable number of doctors when more doctors start to retire than new doctors do. I'm talking about the 2020 to 2040 years. I suggest you read 'Estonia. Health system reviews prepared by Estonian health professionals under the auspices of WHO. There are very interesting answers to all these facts. You will understand that the lack of doctors is not the biggest problem at the moment when you read this review. More important is whether doctors will continue after 10 and 20 years. That's what we have to deal with. Increasing the reception capacity of basic education solves this problem. Secondly, this overview also shows that the shortage of nurses is much more pronounced in Estonian health care. This is what we need to pay attention to. Yana Toomi's second question was whether the family doctor was obliged to make house calls. I checked it out. Yes, a family doctor has that responsibility, if necessary. The need is assessed by the family doctor himself; these needs and opportunities have not been established at law level in detail. Finally, the volume of the training order for doctors has been approved by the parties to the cooperation agreement on goodwill. Family doctors and doctors have been at the table at the conclusion of the agreement, they have coordinated it, and we have presented it jointly to the Minister of Education and Research. The claim that doctors do not support an increase in the volume of the training order or would like any other increase in volume must be inaccurate or erroneous, because all parties have been at the table and all have unambiguously accepted it. I remembered another topic that you raised. It's about health centres. With them, we have an initial estimate of EUR 70 to 80 million, perhaps even a little more. The last negotiations with the European Commission will depend on how much we can invest in primary health centres across Estonia, including attraction centres, with at least four family medical practices. We are also thinking of larger attraction centres, certainly several parts of Tallinn, where there is no such centre yet. For example, there is a very modern health centre in Õismägi; in Haaberst district there is another centre on Paldiski road, but there are several areas where there is nothing like this. So a centre like this could be built in several parts of Tallinn, or existing houses should be renovated. You asked if there was a health centre map. We are in the final stages of this action. Last week, our people visited Põlva County to learn about the interest of family doctors and local governments in this matter. When we have circled Estonia and talked with everyone and have learned what interest it is in this topic on the ground, we have looked at where it is reasonable to make this centre to the hospital, where it is possible to build a new house, but where it is necessary to renovate the old house, we have created sums, and if we have a realistic plan, I will be happy to introduce it either to the Social Affairs Committee or, if you wish, to the political groups. It depends on what you think is necessary. I think that's a question for the next few months. However, it must be taken into account that the European Union's resources will be available in the autumn of 2014 according to the most optimistic plan. By then, we will certainly have an overview and also a breakdown of where we need to invest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U69	Thank you very much. We've exhausted that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U70	Let's go to the next question. Members of the Riigikogu Yana Toom, Viktor Vassilyev, Peeter Võsa, Lauri Laas, Vladimir Velman, Valeri Korb and Mikhail Stalnukhin submitted an inquiry to the Minister of Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas, on 13 November 2013. I ask you to speak on behalf of the speakers of the speech chair, Yana Toomi!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U71	Madam President! Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, Our question is about the health insurance of conscripts. According to the Health Insurance Act, a permanent resident of Estonia, a person living in Estonia on the basis of a temporary residence permit or right of residence, who is paid for or who pays social tax for himself or herself, has the right to sickness insurance. Health insurance is guaranteed to all under 19-year-olds regardless of whether their parents are working or not. Health insurance is also guaranteed for conscripts in military service. The service lasts 8 or 11 months. The eight-month service usually starts in October and the 11-month service in July. The civil servant's insurance cover ends one month after the state's obligation to pay social tax, i.e. one month after the termination of military service. As a general rule, service is started either after completion of secondary education or at the time of the completion of the first degree of higher education. The conscripts themselves estimate that the best time for military service is immediately after graduating from upper secondary school. Before entering military service, entrance examinations are taken at a higher education institution and it is possible to go on academic leave as a result of conscription. While on academic leave, the student does not have the health insurance provided by the student's status. The problem lies in the fact that military service ends before the academic leave is over. As a result, a conscript who returned from military service at the end of May or early June will remain without health insurance for nearly two months. In this regard, I have three questions for the Minister, which I am not going to read out. I hope Mr. Clothes does it on its own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U72	Thank you very much. Please speak to Minister of Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U73	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I'll answer your question. Question 1: 'There are a number of cases where those returning from military service are not aware of the termination of their health insurance before the start of the nominal period of study. How and to what extent are the information related to their health insurance provided to conscripts? ' Both conscripts and all other persons can easily find information related to the validity of health insurance on the patient portal digilooloo.ee. You can also get information from the Health Insurance Fund's website and from the helpline 16363. Students and students also receive information from educational institutions and conscripts from the Defence Resources Board. I call on all members of the Riigikogu who have not used the Patient Portal to do so, because you will receive quite comprehensive information about yourself and your children. We're gradually updating the information you can find there. Question 2: 'How many cases do you know where a person who has returned from military service needs medical help but does not have health insurance because the cover for a conscript has ended and the student's health insurance has stopped because of academic leave? ' The Ministry of Social Affairs has not been approached with such problems. Inescapable aid is guaranteed for uninsured persons. But as I said, since we don't have that kind of information, I don't know how to get a fixed bill. There may just be no such cases. Question 3: "Do you not think that it would be reasonable to change the coverage of the conscript's health insurance so that the person returning from the service would not be left without health insurance until the academic leave is over? ' According to the Ministry of Social Affairs, this is not a matter of the Health Insurance Act but of the organisation of studies. We are ready to discuss the validity of medical insurance cover for students and students returning from military service with the ministries involved. During the academic leave, the student's insurance cover stops and it continues after the leave has ended. The state pays the social tax for the conscript and his insurance cover is valid for one month after the state's obligation to pay the social tax ends. According to the laws governing the field of education, students are granted academic leave for up to one year for military service. There is no requirement that academic leave may not be granted for less than one year to participate in military service, so if a student entering service takes an academic leave of 8 to 11 months, depending on how long his or her service lasts, the problem you have raised should not arise either. But once again, if you think that this problem deserves a more in-depth discussion with the Ministry of Education and Research, then we are ready for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U74	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U75	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, That is not the problem we have raised, that is the problem that people have approached us with. We just passed it on to you. But what should be your willingness to discuss these matters with the Ministry of Education and Research? You just said: '... if you believe that this problem deserves a more in-depth discussion in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Research, then we are ready to do so. ' What does that practically mean? In how many months will it be worth asking you again, have you discussed this and what have you decided?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U76	Thank you. As I said, the Ministry of Social Affairs has no information to suggest that there are people whose insurance cover was actually interrupted for this reason. In our assessment, the student is able to take exactly the length of his or her academic leave for how long the service lasts. Therefore, no time without health insurance should necessarily occur at all. It's a student's free choice. The awareness of students is probably different from that of the subject, while the country has certainly created opportunities for everyone to be aware. In the area of health care, this opportunity is created through digitalugu.ee. I believe that the education system has also given an adequate overview of the conditions under which academic leave can be obtained. But I will say once again that if it appears that there are many of these problems and they are not solved by mere communication, then we are ready to discuss this issue further.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U77	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U78	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! You said quite well that those members of the Riigikogu who have never looked at digital story.ee should look at it. Indeed, many have not been on this page and have not seen it. I believe that no conscript has ever surfed the patient portal in military service. They've got other things to do, I don't know if they're smarter or not, but they're barely surfing there. So this information isn't so much available. But I'm more interested in how to interpret your answer. Is there a negotiation going to start or not? You said there was a readiness, but since no one has approached you, there is no intention of starting negotiations with either the Ministry of Education or anyone else. What about this one?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U79	Thank you. Let us put it this way: if this problem, which needs to be resolved, is proven, then there is a basis for further action. As long as it's all based on conjecture and theoretical constructions, I'm afraid I'm gonna stand by. After all, the Ministry of Social Affairs has many very practical problems that need to be dealt with. However, I absolutely disagree with your assessment of the patient portal's usability. Digilugu.ee is available on every computer with internet access (today all computers are generally connected to the Internet) and on every phone that allows you to go online (today most phones can go online). It's very easy to go to that portal, and I really recommend it. That's where a person gets interesting information about himself. This portal does not need to be used so much in military service, because then a person will have health insurance cover, it will still have it for a month after that. However, if during academic leave the student gets doubts as to whether he or she is currently covered by medical insurance, and if he or she has access to the Internet, I believe that it is available to him or her, he or she will also have access to his or her health information at digitalugu.ee.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U80	Thank you very much. There are no further questions for the Minister. Is there a desire to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. The fourth inquiry has been exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U81	Let's go to the next question. Members of the Riigikogu Marika Tuus-Laul, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Valeri Korb, Lauri Laas, Peeter Võsa, Enn Eesmaa, Eldar Efendiev, Tarmo Tamm, Jüri Ratas, Urbo Vaarmann, Viktor Vassilyev, Ester Tuiksoo and Mailis Reps submitted an inquiry to the Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas on 2 December 2013. Please speak on behalf of the speakers of the speech chair Marika Tuus-Lauli!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U82	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that at first it was very much to do with the reform of the ambulance. Throughout last year, we asked the Minister many times about these things. Things didn't work out in one county or another. Now this reform has begun. Let's hope everything goes well, but of course there are still a lot of questions. New ambulance brigades are being created, which is good in itself, but there will be no medical brigades. As a result of the ambulance reform, the number of nurses' brigades is increasing and nurses remain the main workforce. I don't think nurses do a bad job, I'm sure they do their job well, but the EMTs themselves say that nurses can do their job, but they don't really want to do their doctor's job. We understand that the reason here is also that the doctor's hour costs EUR 8 and the nurse's EUR 4.5. Well, there's no difference in money, of course. The sister brigades are cheaper. We're asking if it's gonna make any savings and how it's gonna work out with the money. Of course, you can look at this change from the point of view that it is another cut. But as I said, let's see how this reform starts. Many senior EMTs have received a notice of redundancy. They got it a few months ago. After all, we also submitted this question a long time ago, over two months ago. I would like to say to the Minister that even if we wait for the problems to be resolved, we will be pleased to have an immediate answer to our question. Once the problems have been solved, we can move on and ask the following questions if necessary. The sooner the minister answers, the better. But once again, the redundancy report has been received by a number of ambulances. For example, I mention Dr. Mare Liper, who has worked as an ambulance doctor for decades, who is a highly experienced doctor with several higher education qualifications. Several other doctors have also been made redundant. We know that emergency services have very long queues, people wait several hours, four hours. I mean, these doctors could hire them so people don't have to wait that long to suffer the pain. There are, of course, very serious problems with the Alert Centre, where people with medical education are not working, but so-called rescue managers. Sometimes even the wrong brigade gets sent out. The quality of life and medical care depends on the decisions taken by rescue providers. The long-term question is the division of work between family doctors and ambulances. It's not clear who should do what. There might be a more profound concept here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U83	Thank you very much. I ask for a chair to be answered by Minister of Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U84	Mr President, honourable Members of the Riigikogu. I think it is a good thing that a question has been made once again where the doubts raised can be answered with certainty. Of course, I would always like to respond more quickly, but part of the reason for the delay is that in the meantime it was holidays and members of the Riigikogu met voters. I passed the house several times, but the lights were out here, and I couldn't come back. But now I'm here, and we can talk about it calmly. Let it be said that the purpose of the ambulance reform has never been to save money. The aim is to ensure that fast and high-quality aid reaches every region of Estonia. Due to the ambulance reform, the number of medical brigades did not decrease, but five new brigades were added across Estonia: Türil, Jüris, Tartu, Haaberstis and Lasnamäe. I passed the former clinic in Õismäe yesterday, the current Haaberst Health Centre. There were two ambulances standing there, and they never stood there before. The vast majority of people in Tallinn and neighbouring municipalities can be helped more quickly. New ambulance brigades and bases also mean that 75 new workers work in the ambulance from New Year's Eve. This ensures that all people in Estonia can feel safer, knowing that, regardless of where they are currently staying, help arrives much faster if needed than before. Now I'm going to go to the questions and answers. Question 1: 'The emergency aid will continue to be financed according to the type of brigade. Doctors are paid EUR 8 and nurses EUR 4.5 per hour. As the number of sister brigades increases, what is the savings achieved by the ambulance reform? " Money savings are not and are not a goal. The aim is to improve the quality and speed of medical care. The ambulance budget is increasing: compared to 2013, it will increase by EUR 2387870 or 8%. This year, the ambulance budget is EUR 31,1 million. Once again, the budget is growing significantly. A little over half of this growth is linked to the wage growth of people working in ambulance brigades and to the creation of some less than half of the new brigades. In addition, the Ministry has made one-off allocations for part of the financing of the bases, some of the funding of the bases has been covered by the service providers from their own resources. Question 2: "What is the risk that the increase in nursing staff in emergency care will burden hospitals' emergency care departments because of the lack of competence of nurses to replace a family doctor and the only solution is to travel to emergency care? ' The role of ambulances and nurses is not to replace family doctors. The roles of family doctors and ambulance workers are completely different. They don't replace each other, they both have an independent role. Let's see the hospital. On average, the nurses have hospitalised 34.6% of the patients, and the medical brigades 33.7%. I see no reason to fear that an increase in the absolute number of sister brigades could result in a greater burden on the EMOs. This is not in any way in line with current work placements. It is also very important to know that in the near future, the sister brigades of the North Estonian Regional Hospital will receive direct contact with the intensive care doctors of the North Estonian Regional Hospital via telemedicine devices. This means that there is not one doctor in the ambulance, but in Northern Estonia the ambulance crew can be involved. This is done at the very time of these challenges when a person's life is in danger. Through technical equipment, the patient's heartbeat, breathing, blood pressure, etc. reaches the intensive care unit in an instant, and the doctor can be involved in the decision-making process. In this way, doctors' time is used effectively and the capabilities of many ambulance crews are enhanced. Already, there are mostly sister brigades in Tallinn Ambulance. The ambulance finds that this is the best way to do a job. In Tallinn, it is possible to take the patient to the hospital in a very short time, and there the patient's life is always in more secure hands than in an ambulance with a professional team. Although ambulances are very widely used in the most modern technology • if you go around the Estonian ambulance bases, you can see that technically this is a top level, however, the hospital intensive care department or emergency care department is, of course, something other than the best ambulance car. The aim of the emergency care areas in Tallinn is to get the patient to the hospital as soon as possible. In distributed locations, the model used for the ambulance crew is further used by a doctor. For example, in most areas of South Estonia, it can be said that even throughout South Estonia there are quite a number of medical brigades. But in Northern Estonia, where the service is provided by the North Estonian Regional Hospital, doctors are involved with technical equipment. This is a completely new level in the Estonian ambulance. With the small brigades that were before the reform, it would have been completely unthinkable. Question 3: 'Undoubtedly, the sister brigades do a very good job, but the statistics show that the medical brigade succeeds in resuscitation in 41% of cases when it arrives at the scene, and the sister brigade revives every third victim. How to ensure the effectiveness of the assistance provided in addition to the speed of the ambulance service in the future? " I would point out that this 41% applies, not to medical brigades, but to re-mobile brigades. Their role will undoubtedly continue beyond the reform. New top-notch machines are also being purchased for these brigades. The nurses have indeed succeeded in resuscitation in 34% of cases, while the medical brigades have an interesting share of resuscitation of 29%. But I don't think we should draw any far-reaching conclusions from this, because every case is unique. However, the proportion of resuscitations in medical brigades has increased by 2% over the last five years and by 3.3% in nursing brigades. I myself have a great deal of faith in what PERH does with his devices, involving intensive care professionals in resuscitation. It will certainly provide a new qualitative level. Question 4: 'The emergency medical brigades should be scattered across Estonia, so that, if necessary, the nurse's brigade can actually get to the scene of the accident. However, none of the medical brigades are provided for Western Harju service areas, for example. Why isn't every ambulance in the service area covered by at least one medical team? ' In all ambulance service areas, including in West Harju County, it is ensured, if necessary, that emergency mobile brigades, where there is also a doctor, will be able to help. Once again, the same area of West Harju is covered by the Northern Estonian Regional Hospital, whose sister brigades have the most modern telemedicine devices. They'll have direct contact with the emergency doctors at the top of the hospital. Thus, in every North-Estonian ambulance or, let's say, in every ambulance in the Western Harju region, not only one doctor is available if necessary, but the entire medical team is available. This will certainly increase the capacity of the brigades compared to today. So far, due to small service areas, the only solution was a three-member, so-called first line medical team, where the doctor provided the entire ambulance service in his small service area. The doctors were then forced to do the work that would have been available to the brother - in - law brigades. At the same time, a much larger area was uncovered. Question 5: 'Today, several emergency doctors have received a notice of redundancy. However, the specific number of doctors made redundant is unclear. How many EMTs have lost their jobs today? " To begin with, the number of medical brigades has not decreased. That's one. Two medical brigades are in Tallinn and Tartu. Viljandi, Pärnu, Narva, Jõhvi, Põltsamaa, Otepää and Räpina have one medical team. This year, a new medical team has been created for Tapa and Paide. Similarly, as I have already described, the consulting medical team is present at the North Estonian Regional Hospital. As far as I know, there aren't a lot of EMTs who would've gotten a redundancy report. I know one concrete example. It's the same person you called. If you have information that these people have more, then share it with others. But as far as I can tell, if an ambulance doctor has lost his job, it is certainly not because of the ambulance reform, but because of other reasons. Question 6: 'The queues of emergency medical units in hospitals are very long and often people are waiting for admission for several hours. Why hasn't the EMTs been made redundant to work in hospital emergency care, instead of letting doctors migrate? " Once again, it is about a particular person. My role as a minister is not to interfere with this employment relationship either on the employer's side or on the employee's side. But as far as I can tell, this particular case has no connection to the ambulance reform, as far as I know. Doctors who do their job well are welcome workers to a few hospitals. Doctors in Estonia are highly valued and expected labour force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U85	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U86	My question is about the nurses' and doctors' brigades. We know that two medical brigades work in Tallinn, for example. You've been emphasising cell phones here. So how many of these cell phone crews do we have? As far as I'm concerned, these medical brigades are working on cell phones. That was one half of the question. I am also interested in how you assess the work of the PSAP operators or the rescue staff. Could there be misinformation or misunderstanding? They're not health professionals. Perhaps a person does not always receive high-quality help because the wrong brigade has been sent out.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U87	Thank you. The PSAP is not part of the Ministry of Social Affairs administration, but I can tell you that much has been done to improve the quality of the work of the PSAP, in cooperation with the ambulance system. The help of the alarm centre is definitely that a large part of Estonian ambulances are equipped with surveillance equipment. The PSAP will see where the cars are located, whether they are responding to a call and traveling to the scene, heading towards the hospital, or if they are idle. South and East Estonia are covered by this system. From these data, you can see the nearest machine on the map, and you can give it an order. If necessary, the Alert Centre can also instruct the driver where to go and which post to turn right or left. That's one very positive thing that's helped the PSAP. The second point, which has greatly increased the possibilities of the PSAP, is purely due to the reform of the ambulance. Before there were small emergency areas, for example, there were three areas in Rapla County. When an ambulance was called to a patient whose life was not in danger, the PSAP was only able to send to him an ambulance crew in the area where the person lived. For example, when a person lived in Kohila municipality, a brigade had to be sent to him. However, while this brigade was on its way to Tallinn with another patient, for example, the patient who had called an ambulance but whose life was not in danger had to wait until the brigade returned to Kohila. I believe you agree with me that the waiting time was too long. It is now possible for the PSAP to call out the nearest brigade in the entire area, and this brigade will help a person. We haven't reduced the number of cell phone crews. I will check this figure, and I will tell you when I answer the following questions. I don't want to be wrong to say it in my head.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U88	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Velman!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U89	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good minister! I'm one of the few people in this hall who isn't a doctor, but I've been in the ambulance for a year. This experience showed that sometimes there are really situations where there is no point in sending out a doctor. In fact, there are patients who call for an ambulance all the time, but all they need is someone to talk to, or they need an injection or some medicine, is all they need to do. You said you didn't have the number of cell phone crews with you, but how do you feel about the tendency of a decrease in the number of cell phones, whether they're going to be as they are or are going to be.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U90	Thank you. Surely this number will not decrease. Inter-hospital transport is the main role of the Reanmobile Brigades. We're talking senior hospital brigades. It is usually the case that a patient is brought from a general hospital to a higher-ranking hospital. The number of these brigades is precisely due to the need for these hospitals. I have now received information that these brigades are, as I remembered, six. There is no reason for us to reduce their number, because the RPABs have a slightly different role to that of the other EMTs. They're equipped with a very specific technique that helps keep the patient alive, there's a much more expensive technique. Let's just say that if an ambulance can pay around EUR 100,000 with equipment, a real-time mobile with all the equipment can cost three times as much. These sums are pretty high. After all, cars are the same, most of the money is made up of sophisticated devices that help to keep the patient alive or revive the patient.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U91	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U92	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. A new competition was organised last year for the operation of emergency areas. There were no offers in Põlva the first time, the second time Tõrva Tervisekeskus OÜ made an offer. However, when reading the county newspaper, Tõrva Health Centre is also unable to provide this service. I read that the University Hospital of Tartu Foundation continues to serve. Can you comment on who now provides this service in Põlva County for five years?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U93	Thank you. Continues with the Tartu Ambulance. I think this is very positive news for the people of Põlva County. When Mrs Tuus-Laul first pointed out that the ambulance reform had gone very bumpy, I think that this reform is the same as any major innovation. There were a lot of questions at first. But after the ambulance reform, I have circled almost all of Estonia, and I can say that in all the places I have been, people's faces have been reflected in satisfaction. Take, for example, Järva County Elder, who was one of the fiery opponents of this reform. He came and thanked me. He said it was really good that Türi had an extra brigade, and Paide had a medical team. These changes are positive and help the ambulance to reach the scene faster. Organisational changes have an even greater impact than the fact that five came to the brigade, because larger service providers are much faster able to make innovations that would, unfortunately, be completely out of hand for small people. I do not think that there are many people in Estonia today who doubt whether the ambulance reform was the right thing. If there are, it's only because of the unknown. I think that this reform was a very important step towards adding confidence.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U94	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U95	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, first of all, thank you for your answers. You are right that reanimobiles are intended for transport vehicles, usually to transport the patient from a lower stage hospital to a higher stage hospital and to ensure life-saving capacity. But if a person living in a forest farm needs help and the dispatcher thinks that it does not just need comfort, it is not an easy problem to solve, but it really needs urgent help, how long is the time to get to that person?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U96	The emergency call hierarchy is four-step. The time of arrival has not been set, since it may depend on a great many circumstances, but the time of departure has been set. These standards depend on the priority of the challenge, which in turn depends on the patient's condition. In the case of calls that need to be responded quickly, there is talk of a response time of less than one minute; in that time, the car must leave. The time of arrival also depends heavily on where one or the other ambulance base is located and how it is located logistically. For example, in your hometown, the base is now located in the city centre. Although the area also serves people in the county, it has to be said that the base is located in a pretty good place, logistically speaking. First of all, help gets to the people of the city very quickly, but the response to the challenges of the rural municipalities did not get any worse. The quick answer is that, unfortunately, it is not possible to set the standard of arrival within minutes, but the standard of departure is in place. That's pretty rough, too. Ambulance personnel still react very quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U97	Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U98	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. My question relates to Ida-Virumaa and Lääne-Virumaa. I want to know how far the trials involving the ambulance in Ida-Virumaa and Lääne-Virumaa started after the public procurement had been carried out. When do you think these questions will be resolved?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U99	It is difficult to speculate, but I hope that clarity will come as soon as possible, and it will soon be clear to the people of Virumaa who will be the provider of ambulance services in the next period of contract. However, there is still no reason to worry, as the provision of the service is guaranteed. Unfortunately, it is true that there are occasional disputes about competitions. I think it's a natural part of the process. We wouldn't want us to have a country that would say that if the country had said something, there would be no more debate about it. If people or businesses find that they need to defend their rights and do so through a court of law, I believe that this is a natural part of all kinds of public administrative procurement. It's a perfectly normal process. But it is certain that the service is also guaranteed in Viru County. That's what the Health Department's been working on.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U100	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you, Minister of Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U101	Ladies and gentlemen, In the near future, we will see how well or badly the ambulance reform has started. This isn't about Elron's train, it's clear. Today, it has to be said that the reform has gone hard and contentiously, but the main issue, I think, remains the nurse-centred nature of the ambulance. The new brigades that were made are the sister brigades. I think that in Tallinn, for example, there could be more than two medical brigades. Once again, I would like to point out that nurses do not work badly, that they certainly work hard and try hard, but they are not doctors, and they have not studied at university for so many years. As has already been said here, medical brigades revive people better. I also mentioned the percentages. What could be the reason? Even if the nurse is not licensed to inject the medicine the patient needs after the patient's heart has been restored. Maybe that's where the difference is. In the article by EMT Märt Põlluvere, we read that even though sisters can do their job, they still realize the limits of their training. We should consider these things. European paramedics, for example, are a completely different type of training. There will be training for the paramedic brigade leader for three years, and we will prepare them much faster. Märt Põlluveer has also said that there is a conceptual crisis in our ambulance. Estonia lacks a common plan for what an ambulance does or should do. According to the law, the ambulance is, as he said, a family doctor's office on wheels that provides outpatient health care, but it is not considered part of internal security. We are currently spending money on redeploying the brigades, in fact, we should think more about reorganising the substantive activities. As has already been mentioned, we have an even bigger problem with operators' dispatchers and the Alert Center. The ambulance reform did not solve one of the old-age problems that people with medical education do not work at the Alert Centre. We know that a certain questionnaire has been provided to the rescue officer. For example, on this basis, he asks a typical question as to whether chest pains are present, and according to the answer, he sends out a certain type of brigade. Doctors consider this to be a serious problem because the dispatch depends on which brigade is going to the victim, as well as on the quality of the assistance. Only a few days ago, this problem was highlighted by Andrus Palu, the head of the emergency medical team in Hiiumaa, and Dr. Elo Volmer, who said that the PSAP operators are not competent enough because they are not health professionals. This article also made such a comment that in the event of a fire, a medical officer would be much better able to make a call to the fire department than to diagnose a fireman's patient. This is, unfortunately, the situation now. Once again, I would like to stress that more watchdoctors are definitely needed in the ER. Almost everyone has seen people waiting there for hours. Although it is made clear as soon as a person arrives, how critical a person's condition is, it has often happened that when the patient finally arrives at the doctor, he is quickly sent to surgery or is immediately hospitalized because it is so urgent. I'll bring up another problem. Only today did we read in the press that according to Tatiana Ventmann, the only ambulance doctor in Tallinn, we do not know the difference between the work of a family doctor and the work of an ambulance. The EMTs are doing our family doctor's work. The ambulance goes out when someone has a fever, someone has an infection, someone has a cold or a cough, someone's vomiting, suffers from diarrhea, or so on. If family doctors bothered to visit patients at home, the ambulance would probably face half the challenges. We know the number of emergency calls is increasing all the time. The doctor said that in Soviet times, when the pediatricians were at home, there was nothing like this, everything was in place in that sense. But yes, the basic question is the conceptual question of what someone has to do, what a family doctor needs to do and what an ambulance needs to do. This question is years old and we are not getting any closer to a solution here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U102	Thank you very much. This inquiry, too, has been exhausted. We have closed the debate on the fifth item.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U103	After hitting the hammer, it is possible to register for an appearance in a free microphone. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U104	Madam President! I'll try to be brief. We have an excellent Social Minister. As he said, an Estonian person can always feel safe. No matter what happens, we have a Socialist Minister who comes here on the remote and always explains how great things are going with us, and reports that the Medical Association supports all the Minister's initiatives. In fact, I have seen copies of the letters from the Medical Association, which have come to the Minister of Social Affairs, yes, to the Health Insurance Fund. Every move they make at the Ministry and every move they make at the Health Insurance Fund comes with a letter of protest from the Doctors' Association. I guess it's called support. The goodwill cooperation agreement has become some sort of permanently existing body. In fact, the task force was called when there was a medical strike more than a year ago. There was some sort of agreement about how to proceed. It's been a year and a half now, and it's been over and over and over for a year and a half. But the Doctors' Association is protesting again. So there won't be a deal soon. Good will and good intentions have paved the way to know where. It's nice that the Minister is always prepared to discuss something. But if a member of the Riigikogu asks a question in the Chamber of Riigikogu, the minister says that it is dim, it is not a reason to discuss anything, the information given by members of the Riigikogu is not adequate. I don't know, so we're not adequate people. It was very nice to hear that there is a digital story.ee or patient portal. Everybody check it out! A conscript can surf there with his cell phone or tablet, and a grandmother, if she has high blood pressure, can see what is recommended there. All information is constantly available! So, people, you can start every morning by looking at what's written about you in digilu.ee just in case. We took this thing pretty seriously here. A good colleague, Urbo Vaarmann, who is quite a paw in IT business, took his big smartphone and tried to log in to the information portal to check his data to see what the patient portal said about Urbo Vaarmann. He showed me from his smartphone screen that the patient portal said about Urbo's armanni: 'Technical error. ' That's what Urbo Vaarmann walked out of this hall, because what he's sitting here for when they say that about him. Coincidence: the minister says one thing, but the minister's beloved IT solutions somehow another. That is the case, and that is what the Minister's words and actions are all about. Thank you for listening!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-13_U105	Thank you very much. Any other requests to speak? There's no more calls. The agenda for today's sitting has been exhausted. I would like to thank all my fellow Members for their participation. Closure of the sitting at 5.08 p.m.
