ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-12_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will begin the Monday session of the 14th working week of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please, representative of the Government of the Republic, Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-12_U2	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching three draft laws today. Firstly, the draft law implementing the General Part of the Environmental Code Act. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Minister of the Environment, will represent the Government of the Republic in the Riigikogu when processing this draft. Secondly, the draft law amending the Health Services Organisation Act and the Traffic Act. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Minister Urmas Kruuse. Thirdly, the draft law amending the State Family Benefits Act, the Social Welfare Act and the Law on the Grant of International Protection to Aliens. The Minister of Social Affairs Helmen Kütt represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of this bill in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-12_U3	Thank you. Please, Rainer Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-12_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! According to § 49 (3) of the Forest Act, the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre is nine members. It also includes two members appointed by decision of the Riigikogu. Consequently, I will hand over the draft decision of the Riigikogu, the content of which is the removal of two members of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre and the appointment of new members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-12_U5	Thank you. Please, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-12_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I will hand over the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Appointing an Estonian representative to the Nordic Investment Bank Audit Committee'. Our proposal is to appoint Rannar Vassilyev, the current Chair of the Monetary Commission, to represent Estonia there. I will say so much more that the Audit Committee is responsible for auditing the bank's accounting records in the Nordic Investment Bank and will issue an auditor's opinion to the Board of the Bank each year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-12_U7	Thank you. Please, Priit Onion!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-12_U8	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I and eight representatives from the IRL Group have an inquiry to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, Urve Palo, regarding the management of EAS. Some time ago, it seemed that if the Minister and the Council changed, the problems there would run out, but now that there are two ministers, the confusion only seems to be getting worse. One signs, the other makes plans, goes and consults, agrees somewhere on the composition of the Council. We all read that last week the Council held its first meeting and as first decisions, I understand that without being met, one of the board members who had a valid contract was released, and the other, who had terminated the agreement, decided to extend it. There are quite a few other questions. Today's Päevaleht also wrote about the members of the Supervisory Board and their choice. In this context, we want to know exactly how this Council was put together, who was able to decide and what would happen in EAS. We have five questions for the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-12_U9	Thank you. I have adopted five drafts on behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu. The Management Board decides to accept them in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. I have also accepted an inquiry. If it complies with the provisions of our Home and Working Procedures Act, the President of the Riigikogu shall forward it to the addressee without delay. Now to the messages. Minister of Social Affairs Helmen Kütt has expressed his wish to make a political statement at today's session of the Riigikogu. The Board of the Riigikogu agreed to this. On the basis of Article 56 (1) (9) and (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu Act, I have added to the agenda of today's session by the Minister of Social Affairs Helmen Küti with a political statement. Now, ladies and gentlemen, please do the presence check! 85 members of the Riigikogu have been registered, 16 are missing. I will now elaborate on today's agenda. The Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu has proposed to exclude the ninth item of the Wednesday, 14 May session from the agenda of our 14th working week, i.e. the first reading of the draft law amending the Spatial Data Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. If there are no objections, I shall put the agenda for the 14th working week to the vote with this amendment. Please take a stand and vote. 79 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, no one opposed, 2 abstentions. The agenda for the 14th working week is therefore confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-12_U10	We're going to the agenda today. Let's hear the political statement of Minister of Social Affairs Helmen Hunt. According to § 155 (4) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, the Board of the Riigikogu and the Minister of Social Affairs agreed that no questions will be asked to the Minister following a political statement. After the application, negotiations will be opened, during which the representatives of the political groups may speak. Minister of Social Affairs Helmen Küti, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-12_U11	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic has just handed over to the Riigikogu the draft law amending the State Family Benefits Act, the Social Welfare Act and the Act granting international protection to an alien. I dare say that this is a historic bill that, when it becomes a law, affects nearly 270000 children, their parents and indirectly all Estonian people. The draft, which reached the Riigikogu's procedure today, implements one of the most important promises of the coalition agreement concluded on 20 March between the Reform Party and the Social Democratic Party: the state will pay 45 euros instead of 19.18 euros to all the first and other children of the family as of the new year. At the same time, the third child allowance will increase to EUR 100 per month and the need-based family allowance will increase by 4.7 times, rising to EUR 45 per month. This is an important historical sign in the sense that, last time, universal family benefits increased on 1 January 2004, 10 years ago. We are immediately taking extremely fundamental steps to provide families with security, actually improving the well-being of tens of thousands of Estonian families, including children who grow there. I am not afraid to be pathetic here when I say that the current coalition came together primarily to increase child support and to fight decisively child poverty, which has been the most burning problem in society for years. I recall that, at the end of April, the government approved the budget strategy for the years 2015 to 2018, the priority of which is to reduce child poverty. Dear Riigikogu! I believe that the removal of children from poverty will be a cross-party society objective in which all parliamentary parties contribute. Sven Mikser, Chairman of the Social Democratic Party, has also said that combating child poverty must become our new public target. The proposals proposed in the draft represent a break in our family policy. I'll speak some numbers first. In order for the first and second children's allowance to increase by EUR 25.87 and the third and each subsequent child's allowance by EUR 23.28, there is a need to increase the cost of family allowances by nearly EUR 70 million in 2015. While in 2013 EUR 70.6 million was spent on children's benefits from the state budget, approximately EUR 151 million will be needed to pay them out by 2015. In other words, the country will allocate almost twice as much money to improve children's quality of life next year. It is true that this is a huge additional burden on the Treasury, but this step still needs to be taken. Otherwise, we will continue to face a declining birth rate, leaving young families and the painful fact that a number of Estonian children will grow up in need. In addition to everything good and necessary, the Riigikogu sends a clear message to the public that every child is of value, the state cares about every child when approving this bill. At the beginning of the year, Statistics Estonia published a collection of 23,000 children, or almost 10% of all under 18-year-olds, living in absolute poverty in 2011. As many as 12% of teenage children aged 11 to 17 lived in absolute poverty. These children have had to give up a lot, often full food, good education and groups of interests. In addition to deep poverty, children's relative poverty cannot be overlooked. In the previous year, 23.6% of children's families with one parent lived in relative poverty and 21.2% of families with three or more children. Concerningly, child poverty has not decreased significantly over the last ten years. In addition to universal child benefit, the need-based growth in family support must provide greater help to families in distress. Instead of the current EUR 9.59, the need-based family allowance for a single-child family will be EUR 45 in 2015, and the need-based family allowance for two or more children will increase from EUR 19.18 to EUR 90. When determining income support, the share of children, i.e. the coefficient, will increase from 0.2 to 1 so far, leaving more money for all families facing major difficulties. I would like to stress that, alongside financial support and benefits, various services play a major role in improving the well-being of families as well as in alleviating poverty. I would like to highlight here just the free school food that all upper secondary school students will receive from 1 January 2015. Only money doesn't raise children, but it certainly helps growing up. Ladies and gentlemen, I dare to set specific and measurable objectives from this honourable Riigikogu speech chair. Let our aim be to eliminate or at least significantly reduce children's poverty in Estonia within four years. Last year 13831 children were born in Estonia. I would suggest that this figure could be at least one thousand in 2018. Eliminating child poverty and turning birth rates into growth is a huge challenge. Today we have before us a draft which will allow very strong steps to be taken towards these objectives, but that is not enough. Already in the coming years, new measures and services aimed at children must be implemented to maximise their development, as well as to better reconcile parents' work and family life. We have reason to hope that these challenges will not be too much for Estonia as a small country. Effective family policy is also an effective security policy, economic policy, regional policy. It is undoubtedly a bill that will improve the well-being and livelihood of our families already in the new year, but it is also an investment in the future. Investing in children will be profitable in five, ten or 15 years' time, but if we fail to do so now, we will be faced with much higher costs of child poverty. I call on you to proceed constructively, with a warm heart and with an open mind and to adopt this draft. Power and strength! Thank you, it was an honor!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-12_U12	Thank you, Minister of Social Affairs Helmen Küttt! We will open negotiations where representatives of the political groups can take the floor. Please, on behalf of the Group of the Liisa-Ly Pakosta Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance. I first introduced you to the procedure for discussing this point. No questions will be asked to the Minister. A procedural question, Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-12_U13	Thank you so much for noticing the raised hand! I have a humble request for you. You told us that the honourable Minister would make a political statement. Please explain to us what a political statement is according to your understanding. How does this differ from the explanatory memorandum to the draft law? Are we now starting to listen to such political statements every day two weeks before the elections? That's it for now.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-12_U14	The Executive Board of the Riigikogu received a letter from Minister Helmen Kütt that it came into the name of the Chairman of the Riigikogu and the Bureau that he wished to make a political statement. The Management Board decided that this statement could be made out of this Riigikogu board as such. This decision was adopted in accordance with § 155 (4) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act, which I read here. Political statements have been made before, either in relation to which questions are answered or in relation to which questions are not answered. This will be done by agreement between the Bureau and the Minister. In the current situation, it was decided that, following the presentation, no questions would be asked to the Minister and negotiations would be opened, during which the representatives of the political groups would be able to speak. This time it was read before the minister spoke. Is Urmas Reinsalu a procedural question? Please, Urmas Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-12_U15	Thank you. Mikhail was a bit evil here, but my point of view is that indeed, the Minister made a political statement and that is his right under the Rules of Procedure Act. His political statement focused on a draft law that certainly had a significant social impact, but for what reasons did the Riigikogu Board decide to take from Parliament the opportunity to debate and ask questions about a specific political initiative with the minister? Did the minister propose it or did the Riigikogu Board propose it to the minister? You spoke of an agreement, and this agreement is definitely the result of a mutual understanding between the parties. But in what way did the Riigikogu board make this decision, and according to what motives? Why take our opportunity to ask questions?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-12_U16	It is possible to debate and negotiate and to ask questions to the Minister when the Commission has sent the draft to this Chamber and the Minister has come to present it to us. It will then be possible to open political negotiations and debates, as well as to ask questions. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-12_U17	I'm not evil at all, as Urmas said. I'm very benevolent, I have a sincere interest in the procedure. If this bill comes to the first reading of the Chamber, will the Bureau not allow the Minister to present his report because he has already read the explanatory statement to us?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-12_U18	According to the Home and Working Procedures Act, the Minister has the right to submit a draft law; that is also his duty. Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-12_U19	Thank you. In my opinion, you did not answer Mr Reinsalu's question, which the Riigikogu Board decided not to give members of the Riigikogu the opportunity to ask questions. Whose initiative was that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-12_U20	This initiative usually comes from ministers who make a statement. They just want to come and talk. The Prime Minister has also made a statement here and, before that, agreed with the Bureau that no questions will be asked. But now I'm going to finish the procedural questions and give the floor to Liisa-Ly Pakosta. Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-12_U21	Ladies and gentlemen, The Fatherland and Res Publica Association undoubtedly supports all initiatives aimed at the survival of the Estonian people and improving the situation of children. The political statement made by the Minister just before us was indeed somewhat surprising in terms of his content, because it was, I agree with, reading the draft explanatory memorandum. As a member of the Riigikogu and as a representative of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union, I am currently using the opportunity to raise political issues in this regard, including those that the Minister did not address, but which I hope he, I very much hope, maybe there will be time to answer. Firstly, of course, we also expect the Minister for Agriculture to talk about reducing rural support by EUR 70 million as a matter of political importance, and we certainly hope that the Minister for Social Affairs will make a political statement even when the parental pension is reduced. More specifically, of course, we do not expect a reduction in parental pensions, but when it comes to this, we hope that this will also be the subject of a separate application. And we hope that this time it will also be possible to ask questions and hold a substantive debate. The growth in children's benefits is, of course, very positive, but there are several things that make us concerned about it. We know from statistics that the median income of families decreases significantly from the moment another child is born into the family. The decline is even more significant from the moment a third child is born into the family. This is why this family policy measure has been successful in Estonia, since the third child the increase in child benefit has been significantly higher. This family policy measure has been praised by both Estonian mothers and international experts. When we look at the graphs drawn up by population scientists, we can also see its clear impact on the increase in the number of births of children. We also know that families with many children make up only a tiny part of the voters - only 2.5% of Estonian households are families with many children. At the same time, one in five children in Estonia grows in such a family. We therefore consider it totally inappropriate that, as from the third child, the increase in child benefit is only 4 euros and 10 cents. Of course, the support of the first and second children must also increase, but it is completely inappropriate for us to introduce such a small increase in child benefit from the third child compared to the current law. This goes against all the work of population scientists as well as practices that have already been proven. The second point that we want to pay attention to in political terms is certainly the abandonment of graduation in child benefits. We are not sure that its effects have been properly analysed. We know that this graduality, or the rule that increasing one child benefit automatically increases all other child benefits, has justified itself. Now, however, there may be doubt that giving up graduation will suddenly not earn the intention of not raising some of the children's benefits in later child benefit regulations. To remind you once again: the current graduality has ensured that families receive support according to their own needs. We know that during the coalition negotiations, serious consideration was given to whether not to give up the income tax refund if children are present. Unfortunately, it has now been stated that it is planned to waive parental pension for three years. We consider it a very startling signal from the point of view of the safety of parents to be that we abandon or postpone one child benefit, as the coalition has called it. The population scientists here on the vertex have confirmed that cutting all forms of support for children and families will have a much greater impact than the financial value of the support can expect. It takes at least 18 years to raise a child. If the child goes to upper secondary school or vocational school, the family must support him or her until the age of 21 and, in the case of a student at the university, the parents' income is taken into account in determining the allowance until the student reaches the age of 24. It is very important that, throughout this long period, families with children are confident that they will not be betrayed by the state. As the benefits offered by the state persist and even if what the President pointed out in his speech yesterday is that one of the parents is leaving the family behind, the family will not lose the support of the state. We know that women who have raised children receive fewer pensions in Estonia. Let's compare two women. They are both very good, they have done the same job for the same salary, but the woman who has raised another child or several children will receive less pension. The more children, the smaller the pension. That is why the Isamaa and Res Publica Union proposed the idea of parental pension, and that is why we adopted the law that additional payments to the parental pension will enter into force on 1 January 2015. We consider it totally unacceptable, politically, but also from the point of view of resolving problems, that the growth of some child benefits comes at the expense of others. Yes, child benefit must increase, but there is no way in which other parental benefits can be cut. The Minister's speech also highlighted the particular importance of supporting families with children's wealth. To remind you once again: for families with children, only EUR 4.1 has been granted an increase in child benefit since the third child. The Social Democrats here have talked about buying rubbers, but this 4.1 euro does not even get beach flip-flops. We very much hope that these issues will also be resolved during the discussions that await the Riigikogu Chamber. A more uniform and needs-based increase in child benefits, so a higher increase since the third child must certainly not lead to a reduction in the parental pension or even a delay in it. I wish us all constructive discussions, and I hope that the number of children's births will not only increase by a thousand by 2018, but that our lives will come close to the level of population reproduction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-12_U22	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Pikhof, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-12_U23	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good fellows! The family policy agenda of the government union is an extremely important matter. This is illustrated by the fact that changes to the State Family Benefits Act and the Social Welfare Act have been brought to the Riigikogu so quickly. The state, the municipalities, the attitude of society as a whole should strongly favour and encourage people who have any plans to have children to have them. To tell you the truth, we've known that a long time ago. Why else does the development plan for children and families until 2020 say that every cent we contribute to children today will bring us back much later? Just as in a person's life, there are important and less important things in a country's life. We are talking about alleviating the poverty of our children. We have 44000 children and young people living in poverty. The material difficulties put their health and education, self-esteem and self-realization in jeopardy with the prospects of the future. It is very important to ensure that no child grows in poverty and deprivation and grows in jealousy. And from another area, the more uncertain the situation of families with children in Estonia, the less children we have, and the more people at the age of family creation leave abroad. The support of the first and second children has remained constant for ten years, and in the current currency it is EUR 19.18. According to the draft, all universal child benefits would grow from January next year. The first and second children of the family would be paid EUR 45 per month and EUR 100 per month for the third and each subsequent child. The growth in the support of the first and second children also improves the livelihood of families with many children. At the end of 2013, according to the Social Insurance Board, the total number of families in Estonia receiving child benefit was 158585. In order to improve the living situation of families in difficulty, children's consumption of income support is made equal to that of the first member of the family. The need-based family allowances paid to families on low incomes will also be increased. At present, the amount of need-based family allowance is 9.59 euros per month for families with one child and 19.18 euros per month for families with two or more children. For the coming year, the need-based family allowance would be EUR 45 and EUR 90 per month, respectively. From the beginning of the coming year, all families with children receiving income support will also receive needs-based family support, only on the basis of a statement, without any supporting documents. Neither do these measures aimed at families with children bring wealth to the house, but in any case we are definitely moving forward for the better. And, as the Minister has already said, in addition to financial support for children in the coming years, all kinds of services must be developed. First, of course, ensure the possibility of childcare or kindergarten, free school food for the end of upper secondary school, etc. Our common prosperity has grown over the years and, in the world's understanding, we are a rich country. The whole question comes down to what is important for the state and the people and what is less important. It is certain that our children must grow up in human conditions, be able to develop their talents, right here in Estonia. Then we won't have to call them back from anywhere else in years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-12_U24	Thank you very much. Please, on behalf of the Group of the Centre Party of Marika Tuus-Laul.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-12_U25	Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that the Reform Party and the Social Democrats, our current coalition, have come to love Tallinn Television. Welcome! But indeed, the new government has been in office for some time. Unfortunately, I don't see any action beyond promises. What has really changed? The people are waiting for a change for the better, but nothing has changed. The government's shift, the politics are the same. Increases in excise duties, other price increases, fewer pensions than the pension formula foresees, mass exodus of people, recession, etc. Yes, children's allowances will be increased now, just before the next Riigikogu elections. However, I recall that the reform party government is doing this for the first time in ten years, and this is not a significant step, because the increase in subsidies is still very small. And with the other hand, this money will be taken back: there will be an increase in the excise duty on natural gas, which will lead to price rally, the excise tax on light fuel oil will disappear, and the price of fuel oil will rise by 20 to 30%. It might be a good idea to have an accelerated increase in alcohol duty over the next few years, but it actually gives people a signal that if you drink alcohol, you will support our country. As we know, the amount of healing that is already completely evil is tightened up in the outskirts of the country to see how you can handle yourself. The final stage of receiving supplementary pension for people who have raised children is left, the law passed is abandoned. The right-wing policy continues to reduce income tax, which has been actively fought by the Social Democrats in the past, and now, in the government, it is completely satisfied. After all, the money in the Treasury is even lower, and that means less health care, less police, less ambulance, less education and more support for the wealthy. It's the wealthy who win the income tax reduction. Thousands of euros will be pocketed by large owners of companies who withdraw dividend income by 1% of the fall in income tax, and the country will be even thinner. And yet big companies, foreign commercial banks, powerful trading chains and many others are taking their profits free of tax, and banks are getting richer and richer. Thus, the reform party's successful project to make a profit for the banks continues. Something's new: Inability to work, the disabled are being put to work. I just don't understand where now, because there aren't enough jobs for those who can work. Let us hope that this reform goes well, let us see! However, I do not see any new government proposals at the moment on how to curb mass emigration and raise people's low wages. However, low wages are currently the highest security risk in Estonia. This is what is dangerous for the country if people are not happy with their country. At the same time, today's Äripäev wrote a World Bank report which states that the increase in wages is actually a threat to Estonia. The reason for our recession is the warm winter and cheap electricity from Estlink cable, said Maris Lauri, Government Advisor today. Winter was bad for the energy sector, he said. It can no longer be made clearer about the principle of our government that the more people peel, the better we do. The more we raise excise duties, VAT and electricity prices, the higher the home costs, the better the state. We have seen this principle of exfoliation here in Estonia for decades, and the current interim government unfortunately applies the same principle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-12_U26	Thank you very much. I will close the negotiations because there are no more calls. Today's agenda is exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-12_U27	After a hammer hit, it is possible to register for a speech in a free microphone. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-12_U28	Ladies and gentlemen, Our Prime Minister, Taavi Rõivas, has repeatedly confirmed that he will not perform on Tallinn Television. Today, however, it was also quite pleasant to welcome a minister to Tallinn's Television So there's nothing to do, the media is playing a huge role in our lives. When I was running the newspapers this morning, I began to wonder what direction Estonia was going in anyway. We live like a pseudo-world. Is it better to say a bearded woman or a man with a dress? It's like our main problem today. It's about state radio, it's about other radio channels and television. At the same time, an inquiring mother asks how she can explain to her children why her uncle is wearing a dress. What kind of man does my boyfriend grow up to be? Another child, a little bigger, wonders how to cope if a mother's pension does not even cover a nursing home, not to mention the purchase of medicines and other necessary expenses. Before lunch, however, we heard about the bombs on the radio: the Estonian economy, which we praised, has fallen by 1.9%. It was only the day before yesterday that the news was that the Russian economy was in the north: it would not rise by more than 2%. We're down 2%, but we're good. For 20 years, our economy has been commented by analyst Maris Lauri, who now advises Prime Minister Taavi from Rõiva. As the previous speaker has already said, Maris Lauri hastened to comfort the people today that it was not us Estonians who were responsible for the warm winter and the Finnish electricity was cheap, so the companies did not get their huge profits. The fact that it was easier for the people to live this warm winter doesn't interest our government's advisor, because then the country's economy seems to be dying. How to boost the economy is not something Mrs Lauri can say. But you will pick up the new number of the Green Capital of Tallinn newspaper and you will find a solution immediately. The Chairman of the Savings and Loan Association of Põlvamaa Helle Virt recommends a cooperative movement for Estonia, cooperative banking and a powerful cooperative bank for Tallinn. In his view, only together could we be able to revive the economy. Unfortunately, under the leadership of the Reform Party, we have so far ignored the cooperative movement, to say the least, if not to say that we have destroyed it. But we know that everything that comes from Tallinn is bad. A study conducted by Delfi showed that about half of the population even supports progressive income tax. But free transport is bad, road repair is bad, free school lunches are bad, city rental apartments are bad. Everything is bad that is done in Tallinn. But at the same time, the people are very happy with it. You can't talk about a cooperative bank lately, it's being attacked very badly. So we live and fade slowly. Today's Postimees writes that the population in 142 rural municipalities has been steadily declining and only 19 rural municipalities in Estonia are developing. That's what we've come to. My advice to you, dear Estonian people, who live in 142 rural municipalities: From tomorrow, try to live like this, to do so, to be as done in Tallinn! Not on Toompea, downtown. The experience shows that Tallinn and Mayor Edgar Savisaar are on the right track. Tallinn is developing, while the rest of Estonia is fading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-12_U29	Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-12_U30	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The second week in a row, talking about the same thing is a little weird, but since it's censorship, you might want to do it again. I would like to remind you that a week ago I took the floor because a member of the European Parliament, Tunne-Väldo Kelam, published an article in Postimees and slandered me. Personally, I had this idea of a normal democratic media that if you're being lied about in a big paper, this page should be published after your article, where you're rejecting this lie. Unfortunately, that didn't happen, and I had to say it from this remote. However, it turned out that such an accident had not only hit me, a member of the Euro Parliament Tunne Kelam lied about Edgar Savisaare, the chairman of the Estonian Central Party. For some reason, current politicians do not want to talk about what they intend to do in the European Parliament. All you can hear is grit and slander. So wrote Kelam Edgar Savisaare about the government of the so-called People's Front that it was made up of Moscow's minions. A new reality is being created, which is absolutely not true! I quote from Edgar Savisaar: 'Estonia's independence was also the rule of the People's Front of Estonia by the composer Lepo Sumera. The Foreign Minister of the People's Front Government was President Lennart Meri. At a high-level conference called Lennart Meri a few days ago, the changed security situation in Estonia, Europe and the world was discussed. And then, a few more days later, Kelam will tear his name into the mud, branding him as an agent of Moscow as Minister of the Savisaar Government. Is Kelam not ashamed? ' Of course he has no shame, we understand that perfectly. Savisaar also writes in his article (I will explain later why I quote it): 'Kelam says that Savisaar is pursuing a policy that contrasts with the interests of Estonia. I say, 'Does the Central Party's policy, which calls for the creation of jobs with a European salary that allows us to live in Estonia, contrast to the interests of Estonia? Do the free school lunches that were introduced at the initiative of the Centre Party contrast with the interests of Estonia? Does free public transport, which alleviates the situation of families during difficult times, especially those with many children, contrast with the interests of Estonia? Is municipal building, which is now being developed at government level, contrary to the interests of Estonia? What are we talking about? '" I've been quoting Edgar here for a long time because he wrote an article too. Why am I talking about censorship? Feel Kelam may say any wrong, but no objections will be expressed. Edgar Savisaar wrote an article in which every word is factually correct, sent it to Postimees, but Postimees was unable to publish this writing in response to Kelam. Guys, this is gonna be far from funny. The novel of two Swedish writers, Per Wahlöö, and Maj Sjöwall, '31. The ruin of the floor. They used to make a movie about it, and if I remember correctly, Lembit Ulfsak played the main hero there. Of course, I cannot recount what it is about here, but practically the story now is that maybe the Riigikogu and some media sources are the only way to speak the truth and argue against it. Without will, the question arises as to what people are asking me now all over Estonia, and they are not asking it in Russian, but are asking it in Estonian: did we want such a country? And finally, another sentence that remained in the sound of one of my phone conversations last week: even during the Russian era, propaganda and brainwashing were not as huge as it is now in the Estonian media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-12_U31	Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-12_U32	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Good friends! On Thursday of last week, the amendment to the VAT Act was happily adopted here, the same one that the President rejected. It was accepted on Thursday. It's not like there's anything to talk about for a long time, it's all been said. But yes, for some reason it was thought that a small number of entrepreneurs were fraudsters, and it was decided to punish everyone. But let them write declarations about their 1000-euro bills, make them every month. Punished everyone and it's like the train's gone. But in the meantime, I got a call from several accountants who were furious and didn't ask, but they actually insisted that I go to the remote and talk about it. It is not as simple as it seemed to us on Thursday. We have a lot of small companies where the accountant doesn't have anything to do every month. Once a year, an annual report is being made, that is all. But if there are still ten invoices in a company like this during the year, which are at least 1000 euros by chance, then the accountant must be paid monthly wages. Small businesses must acquire an accounting programme that costs a lot of money. These are pretty big expenses. The expected tax revenue it will generate is perhaps 30 million, but the costs for both the public and private sectors will be considerably higher. Moreover, there is such a nuance, which accountants know very well that a large number of entrepreneurs work using the consignation: they give the goods to the consignation store. This means that the invoice will be issued on 15 May and the VAT liability will also arise on the same day, but the person to whom the goods are transferred for a month or for two or three months to stay in the consignation warehouse will not be liable for VAT until two or three months. Now these VAT returns will be submitted, compared. It's a bunch of data, I'm sure it's covered by some smart computer program. And this computer program brands both the accountant and the consignee of the goods both as VAT fraudsters. There's gonna be some kind of flying squad to the IRS that's gonna be dealing with a penalty operation. They must travel all over Estonia and compare and recalculate these data manually. So there's a lot of confusion. They say they don't hit a rustler, but they're gonna hit that miserable little businessman. But two more legislative changes were initiated last week on Thursday. One will end the payment of EUR 64 transport subsidies, which was very helpful to many small businesses, and the other will result in a 50% deduction of VAT from the use of the official car. At the same time, a professional car may be the only way to get a job if you live in a rural area and work in a city or another rural area. So it's a pretty hard hit on small businesses. It is always said that it is a small enterprise that is maintaining and feeding Estonia that it is the foundation of our economy. And now that kind of blow on him! All this has been done in cooperation with the Reform Party and the Socialist Coalition. I understand the sexes they have read their classics and remember the sentence that proletariat is the grave digger of capitalism. But how the reformers did it, I can't imagine. They're capable people, they either have their own company, or they have it in the name of a friend, and there are definitely accountants with whom they communicate. In any case, the accountants told me that, like their doctor, it is not worth pissing off their accountants. If a politician may have hoped that in an election some pens or leaflets could be included in the company's expenses, now that they intend to offer their accountant something like this, the accountant will say that no-no, your political action has not been in my interest and go with this account wherever you want. So ugly it was done. But the accountants have spoken through me and there are many accountants, they are quite a significant proportion of all employees, the Estonian population, including voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-12_U33	Thank you. Please, Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-12_U34	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I stand before you because of the obligation to do so. I have led the Moldovan delegation in the European Parliament in 2004-2009. I have been in contact with representatives of the eastern border countries very many times. The crisis in Ukraine means a great deal of responsibility for Estonia. We are the ones who are familiar with the situation in Moldova, Georgia, Belarus, Armenia and Azerbaijan, not to mention Ukraine. We know this once better than our Western colleagues. Personally, I have been to Transnistria three times apart from Moldova and heard a demagogic talk about the will of the people, while 2000 Russian peacekeepers continue to nest in Transnistria, even though they had to leave at the beginning of the millennium. By the way, in the city centre of Tiraspol there is a huge Lenin and the currency of the ruble. In Transnistria, it is not the Moldovans or the Russians that live the most, but the Ukrainians. But here's the thing. Yesterday, the news in our media was extremely alarming: 'Rogozin: Prayers from the Transnistrian people reached Moscow'. According to the Russian Deputy Prime Minister, Dmitri Rogozini, he was able to remove from Transnistria the petitions in which its residents ask Russia to recognise the separatist region of Moldova. Rogozin participated in the Victory Day celebration in Transnistria on 9 May. According to him, the Moldovan authorities at Chisinau Airport could not find the boxes containing the petition and signatures while searching the Russian government delegation plane. Moldova announced Saturday night that "confiscated the materials to review them." Chisinau's authorities deplored Rogozin's unproductive activities and provocative statements, which 'does not help to make progress in the Transnistrian conflict'. Rogozin, in turn, accused Moldova's ability of 'provoking, with serious consequences for our bilateral relations'. Hey, gentlemen and ladies, what if it's not a threat? The events in Crimea have given rise to doubts that Moscow may next target Transnistria, which has a population of half a million. On 16 April, the Supreme Council of Transnistria asked the President of Russia, the State Duma, the Federation Council, the UN and the OSCE to recognise the independence of the region. Let me remind you that Transnistria is a self-proclaimed formation that has not been recognised by any country in the world, including Russia. What is important is: this is a so-called frozen conflict. Knowing and knowing the Kremlin's handwriting, you must be especially alert to the step that follows these petitions. I am quite sure that this is a foreplay for something with which Russia wishes to demonstrate who is under Moldova's influence. For years, I have always underlined throughout Europe: in the European Union, Moldova is taken up in its territorial integrity, i.e. with Transnistria. Moldova was, is and will remain a European country. Moldova is a country bordering the European Union. Four million Moldovans mean that the European Union, with 500 million inhabitants, will be able to join the Republic of Moldova in a simple way if Moldova is ready. However, this issue of Moldova's accession to the European Union has never been an easy one in the Brussels corridors. Every time I went to Moldova for five years to pursue the European Union's foreign policy, my colleagues always had to understand the phenomena that we, unfortunately, know from birth. This same experience is also needed now, and perhaps especially now, to explain to our Western colleagues how and why it is necessary to ensure access to the European Union for the Eastern Partners. The West must take our former fate mates seriously and must not leave them in the grey zone. I am convinced that we can conduct Estonia's foreign policy in such a way that Moldova does not have to worry about its fate. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, dear TV viewers, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-12_U35	Thank you very much. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-12_U36	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, For some reason, to this day, I thought that the free microphone of the Riigikogu on Mondays was still the preserve of the Riigikogu and that both opposition and coalition ambassadors could speak in the free microphone of the Riigikogu. Sometimes the question has been raised as to why members of the Riigikogu use so little free microphone. In other parts of the world, it is a very common practice that there are many things being said, including those that do not fit into the agenda. Today I learned that Riigikogu Question Time is part of Tallinn TV. I respect very much that Tallinn TV is making transfers from this hall, but so to speak, anyone who speaks in a free microphone is not allowed to pose openly for Tallinn TV. I also did not believe today that the crucial political statement of the Minister for Social Affairs would confuse the agenda and the thinking of opposition politicians. In fact, it was a very strong and very important statement from the Minister for Social Affairs. I would like to emphasise here what is still changing. The Reform Party and the Social Democrats agreed, by forming a coalition, that child support for the first and second children would increase to 45 euros per month and from the third child to 100 euros per month. The need-based family allowance is also increasing: in 2014, the need-based family allowance for one child is 9.59 euros, while at the beginning of 2015 it is 45 euros. The need-based family allowance for families with two or more children will increase from €19.18 to €90. It is estimated that the cost of needs-based family support will increase by 4,8 to 7,3 million euros and that the total cost of need-based family support will amount to 8.4 to 12.8 million euros in 2015. We heard here today a free microphone in the round, how incompetent the current Interim Government is. But believe me, this interim government is starting with small but very important steps. That is exactly what the Minister of Social Affairs did, and this caused the opposition to throng. Three children have been raised in my family. They've been good kids, they've grown up good people who've gone their own way. I hope I know the feelings of all our mothers and understand how they rejoice in the heart over what the Minister of Social Affairs said here today. It's a small leap, but it's a very important leap in our social environment. Mrs. Marika said very little is given to families. I think that very many mothers today will be happy and agree that a significant step will be taken to support families. Yesterday was Mother's Day, and today maybe it's inappropriate to say, "Happy Mother's Day." Last night, however, the Minister of Social Affairs and many of us congratulated many mothers. We shook their hands and sent them cards and messages. I think moms are smiling at home today. And they also smile because children's benefits increase, so many families get a little bit of joy. I wish all mothers a beautiful spring today. And believe me, little ones, but the important steps of the current government will continue for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-12_U37	Thank you. No more requests, today's trial is over. Thank you very much to all present. Have a nice day! Closure of the sitting at 4.03 p.m.
