ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Question Time begins with a check-in. Please, let's do the presence check! Currently 45 members of the Riigikogu are present, 56 are missing. Today, Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, Minister of Defence Sven Mikser and Minister of Health and Labour Urmas Kruuse participate in Question Time. Yesterday, seven members of the Riigikogu expressed their wish to ask questions in Question Time, and the President gives the opportunity to ask two more specific questions in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U2	The first questioner is Tarmo Tamm and the question is for Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U3	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! After the kidnapping of the Eston Suitcase, you and Minister of the Interior, Pevkur, claimed that our border with Russia had no reason to worry. Yesterday, you personally visited the border. Are you still saying that the eastern borders of the European Union, NATO and Schengen countries are all right and we do not have to be ashamed?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U4	Thank you. There is no reason to doubt that the Estonian border is well guarded. But there are many things we can do better. By investing in the proper marking of the eastern border, the proper construction of the border and the provision of state-of-the-art technology, we can make the work of more than 600 people who watch the eastern border of Estonia every day easier but more effective. We do not have to worry about the fact that the Estonian border is not well protected. Yes, it is. But we can protect it even better, and we're doing it this year. Also in next year's state budget, which I will soon have a good opportunity to introduce to you, we are going to have significant investments in order to further strengthen the Estonian border.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U5	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U6	Thank you, manager. Good Prime Minister! Estonia has received a total of 89 million euros for border management from foreign countries and it has now become apparent that only 11 kilometres have been constructed from the 130 km border line and the border guard has to clean the border line with his own tractor. Where has this money been spent, and why is the control line between Estonia and Russia not properly built?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U7	Thank you. I can tell you that we're building the control line properly. I can also say that apart from the check line, the Estonian border has been made earlier and very important investments will be made next year. If you look at what's most expensive, they're definitely border stations. The Narva border crossing, which is currently being built alone, represents an investment of approximately EUR 9 million. Very large investments have also been made in cordons. Next year, for example, we intend to rebuild completely capitulately, to build the Piusa cordon, which will take EUR 5.3 million. There is actually much more to border investment than the amount you mentioned, because border investment is also the establishment of the Koidula railway border station, which already paid about as much as you called the whole investment. Quite a lot has been invested in technology, of course. Next year, talking more about the future than about the past, we are essentially planning to replace all patrol vehicles. This investment amounts to EUR 15 million. So, looking into the future, we can say that the Estonian border is much better protected than it is today, and we are working very intensively on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U8	Tarmo Tamm, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U9	Thank you, manager. Good Prime Minister! It is a matter of priorities. In 23 years, we have not been able to build a state border, which is a temporary reference line, if directly legally formulated. In the state budget for next year, only EUR 990000 has been allocated for the construction of the border, and at this rate it would take about 20 years to build the border. Two political parties, the Reform Party and the IRL have long ruled and thinned our country. Which party's face is staring back at the border?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U10	Thank you. First of all, what will be planned next year as investments. You mentioned 900000, which is one small part of the amount invested in the border next year. Overall, there will be more border-related investments next year. 900000 is specifically intended for technological innovation, that is one line. With the decisions made this year alone, we have already put more than a million in place, both for personal protection and for the replacement of weapons, and for marking the border line in the most important places, and I assure you that the money will not be behind these decisions next year. The most important contribution to the construction of the border is or the most extensive work that needs to be done before we can start building the garden and installing more surveillance cameras, the State Forest Management Centre will do. We are planning to order the State Forest Management Centre to create a clean area at least 10 metres wide at the government meeting tomorrow. Its price is set at EUR 5 to 6 million in the various tables. I believe it is possible to start this work this year and, at the beginning of next year, I am not 100% sure whether to complete it, but I hope to complete it in order to be able to proceed with the following investments. As I said, large sums are also going to be used to improve various domestic conditions and to acquire technology. So together we are talking about the tens of millions that will go next year to strengthen the eastern border.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U11	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U12	Thank you, Prime Minister. Your attitude is very, very optimistic. After all, in the last few days, we have read and heard that there is no way to protect this border. Former railway manager Andres Kraas has written that he and his friends spent the whole day at the border, but did not meet any border guards. I understand that technology does a lot of things, but basically, the border is unprotected. At the same time, we know that the borders of Latvia and Lithuania, for example, are decent; the Finnish border is quite well constructed in the vast majority. We are dealing with the European Union's border. Why have we failed to do this? We have heard from high officials that things are really very bad.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U13	I don't know where you read my mind. I would not say that I am optimistic about this, on the contrary, I am very realistic and I see that the eastern border of Estonia needs additional investments. I do not know why the former Home Affairs Ministers have not taken this issue so seriously. I can see that the current Minister for the Interior has put it on the table as a very priority, and we are not looking for the guilty, we are not looking for a way to pin things on someone, but for real solutions to increase capacity as quickly as possible. Your assessment that no one is watching the Estonian border is, in my opinion, inappropriate. The eastern border of Estonia is guarded by over 600 people, a very large number of cameras and very many technical solutions, many of which know nothing. And it's better if you don't, because if the whole public knew that, then those who want to cross the border would know that. The Estonian border has been invested very much at different times, but the fact that the control line is not properly marked is a fact. We will take the matter in hand, do it and ensure that the eastern border of Estonia is the same as one of the proper external borders of the Estonian state, the external borders of the European Union must be.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U14	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U15	Thank you. Prime Minister! I'll fix you up a little bit. Your rhetoric in the Riigikogu Hall is not optimistic but artificially optimistic. You always want to show the situation better than it really is. And if we're talking about the border right now, we don't have any experience. I haven't been to the border, especially at Narva's, but I've been to Southeast Estonia. I see Russian border guards there all the time across the border in the boots of Saatse. Even your mainstream media has been exceptionally negative when assessing the border. I recall from the press examples of the Russians coming across the border to ask for smoke on the farmyard, the Vietnamese had knocked on the door in the morning and woken the hostess to the moon, give her hot water. These are examples of newspapers in recent days. I don't want you to start blaming anyone, but I think you should still look back in history and ask who's responsible for this situation. Even the apo operation at the border failed, and it failed brutally. There should be someone in charge here now...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U16	Now the question is asked, the time is up.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U17	I'm asking who's responsible.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U18	Thanks, time's up! We have one minute to ask you a question. Now the Prime Minister responds.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U19	Thank you. Like I said, I'm not looking for the culprits. I am dealing with how to invest the border in such a way that the eastern border of Estonia is correctly marked off and equipped with the most up-to-date technology and that the work of more than 600 people is easier and, at the same time, more efficient. The name of the Eston Suitcase is already mentioned several times in the context of border surveillance. I think you do realize that these are two different things. I believe you will understand that, in this case, specifically this paragraph knowingly, I cannot say that it was not guarded, because it would not be accurate, but we know that all this took place in the knowledge of the border guard. To say that it has something to do with holding or not keeping the Estonian border is completely inappropriate. Now these other examples. The pressure from smugglers is very high and somewhat lower, but also completely considerable pressure from illegal immigrants. I dare say that very many of these cases are discovered very quickly and those involved are quickly caught. But in order for this border to be 100% or very close to 100%, investment must be made. If you're saying that I'm artificially optimistic, I think your judgment compass is pointing in the wrong direction. I am realistic about this, I see the need for investment and I am working to make these investments.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U20	Honourable Riigikogu! When we started, on the organisational side, it was said that two additional questions could be asked from the floor. These are now presented. So I apologize to Marko Mihkelson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U21	The next question will be asked by Kaia Iva, Minister of Health and Labour, Urmas Kruus. Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U22	Thank you. Dear Minister, There are nearly 200000 people in Estonia whose salary is less than 500 euros, but who still pay income tax to the state. I believe you agree that it is quite difficult to cope with this kind of pay, especially if there are children in the family. The IRL has developed a tax reform whereby all earners under EUR 500 would be exempt from income tax and then the income tax share would slowly decrease to EUR 846. This means that anyone whose salary is below it would win income tax. What do you think as Minister of Labour? I believe that you consider this reform to be very important. But what do you think this reform should be further improved in which direction, or what other measures should be taken?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U23	Thank you, Honourable Asker. As Minister for Health and Labour, I consider it necessary to deal with measures that help create jobs and increase people's incomes in the labour market. The debate on this subject, which has been highlighted by a particular party, will certainly remain during the next Riigikogu elections. If we are looking at the actions of the current government, there are clearly two directions. One direction relates to how labour taxes can be reduced, and the other side is how to increase social protection and security in addition to the national defence that has been discussed earlier. I am therefore convinced that it is certainly reasonable to grant incentives to certain risk groups at times of crisis, but if we approach the issue in a general philosophy, we need to find solutions to how the income of Estonians and other Estonians would increase. This also means completely new challenges in the labour market. This means, figuratively speaking, how to match employers' needs with the skills of our workforce.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U24	Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U25	I believe you agree with me that the measures that we have proposed in this reform will improve the management of families on the one hand and prevent people on low incomes from having to look for work outside Estonia on the other. Thirdly, it is very important that those who work in paid employment have also made the decision that they want to live not from grants but rather from work to earn a living for the family. After all, such a tax relief gives a very clear signal that there is no need to rely on subsidies as far as tax policy is concerned. As Minister for Labour, what other measures could be taken to keep people at work rather than to give preference to subsidies?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U26	Thank you. Speaking as Minister for Health and Labour on the labour market, I can clearly see the measures relating to increased activity in finding work and, where necessary, more flexible exchanges or upgrading of professional skills. If we look at the role of the unemployment fund and compare it with its role in times of crisis, we will see that people's trust in the activities of the unemployment fund has clearly increased. Considering that we are also channelling some EUR 180 million from the European Union to the unemployment fund for various services, all of this is the basis for us to be able to increase our incomes. And if we look at how income depends on the level of education, we will continue to see that increasing incomes play a very important role in teaching and education. The possible momentary tax relief may not help at all here. But in order to prove that your idea is correct, you can always create a variety of working groups where you can discuss it and find solutions to show society that this idea is specifically the right one.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U27	The second point, Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U28	Thank you. After all, the tax reform proposed by the IRL, which leaves more money in the hands of people with low wages, clearly supports more people living farther away from Harjumaa. We know that wages are lower outside Tallinn, outside Harjumaa. And since it can be assumed that these people are channelling the additional euro into consumption relatively quickly, this reform will directly support entrepreneurship in the regions and maybe, as a result, also create new jobs, it will boost the economy there. Do you see any other measures that, through taxation or your field of work, could promote precisely those regions that are beyond Harjumaa?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U29	Thank you, good questioner! In fact, both my plans and those of the current government are clearly aimed at reducing overall labour taxes and not at taxing investment. This means that if we look at the ability of capital to create jobs, the less it has been taxed on creating new jobs, the clearer it is that new jobs will be created. When we talk about labour taxes more broadly, employers and other social players have jointly agreed that the unemployment insurance rate will fall, and this will also fall because it is one of the very important components of labour taxes. So these potentially very diverse tax changes certainly do not keep the country on a more strategic and adequate course. But it is clear that the labour market must become more flexible. In general, looking also at trends and trends elsewhere in Europe, we can say that the workforce is moving more towards where the jobs are. This means that the state also needs to take a great deal of care to ensure that people are guaranteed logistical and infrastructure capacities to move. If we are still talking about the labour capacity reform discussed in the Riigikogu and the draft law amending the Labour Market Services and Support Act, they can actually increase people's incomes as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U30	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U31	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear Minister for Health and Labour, There are two areas in which Estonia is among the first in Europe in a negative sense: one is the health of Estonian men and the other is the pay of Estonian women. With both of them, Estonia is in the role of a red lamp in Europe. Currently, 32% of Estonian women receive the lowest salary, i.e. they earn less than three euros per hour. And the real situation is that a woman's lower salary leads to poorer economic security and thus to a greater dependence on her partner, whose healthy life is shorter than that of men in other countries of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U32	Question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U33	Do you think that the proposed reform of the low-paid tax exemption will support the improvement of the wages of Estonian women and the better livelihood of Estonian families?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U34	Thank you, Reverend Asker! If we look at the developments in Estonia over a period of time, i.e. we also look at the period that has passed, we must be positive and admit that certain attitudes in society have changed and the situation is certainly not as bad as it was years ago. If we take into account all the components and areas of the labour market that are not actually reflected in all the statistics of pan-European research, we will see that the situation is not so bad. But I admit that, by looking also at the action programme of the current government and the objectives that we want to achieve in this area, it is clear that certain roles and attitudes need to be changed in society. At times, it seems to us to be quite simple and normal. However, when we look at how decisions are sometimes made on the labour market, the rocky or stereotyped perceptions that this is the work of men and that it is the work of women are still rooted in some sectors. That is why I very much hope that, alongside other social developments, this pay gap will certainly be reduced in nature. And if we look at the pay gap as a whole, the pay gap is actually between 13% and 30% and depends on the nuances I mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U35	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U36	Thank you. Good minister! Clearly, coping and coping are quite important issues; unfortunately, we can still talk about the backwards in this regard. Two thirds of people have difficulties in coping, a €90 income support that was raised is still so low that it does not even cover the shopping cart. We have an awkwardly low pension, I just looked yesterday, 76% of people have a pension coefficient below 1. The European Union proposes that in the near future all Member States should have an income of more than EUR 400. With the Central Party Group, we have proposed that the minimum wage should be EUR 500 or more. How do you see what we can do?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U37	Thank you, Reverend Asker! Of course, as a minister, I would be very happy if people's incomes were severalty percent higher than tomorrow. At the same time, we can see a positive trend, and we can also say that the average income of people has increased. If we also look at how much income support was received in 2013, for example, the number of families receiving this support was slightly over 19000. And one important thing we notice about recipients of income support is that at least one family member is also unemployed at the same time. This means, in fact, that the best social policy to help increase people's incomes is linked to real changes in the labour market and that we are going to engage in more value-added production. Any artificial, simply emotional increase in money numbers is certainly not sustainable. This may provide short-term relief, but it cannot help the country, society as a whole, to the next qualitative level.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U38	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U39	The next questioner is Lembit Kaljuvee and the question is Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U40	Mr. Chairman! Good Prime Minister! Despite the decision made by the Riigikogu last week, I am convinced that the best place for the Estonian Academy of Defence would be in Ida-Virumaa. Moreover, I am convinced that the next government will also make a decision on this. In this debate, I was unclear why the Reform Party did not support the draft. I'd like to hear it from you as Prime Minister and President of the Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U41	Thank you. If we were to start rebuilding the National Defence Academy from scratch, there would indeed be very serious arguments as to why it would be built in Ida-Virumaa. At the same time, we know that we are not building the National Defence Academy from scratch. The Academy already has very decent buildings and facilities in Muraste, for example, which I believe would be irresponsible to dismantle, all the more so as the European Union's money has been used to build them. Stopping using them would probably mean that we should pay back that money. We also know that there are buildings on Kase Street in Tallinn. True, they are not as good as they might be, but they also carry out teaching activities. And we know that we also have a desire to take home protection education more to Ida-Virumaa. What are the odds? It has been drawn out of the option to start from scratch, all current buildings figuratively demolished or left empty by the National Defence Academy and build a completely new house. Having been chairman of the Supervisory Board of State Real Estate AS for six and a half years, I have been more or less acquainted with all the projects that have been put on the table. Their costs have reached up to EUR 66.5 million, which is a very, very, very large amount. I do not remember that even the same amount of money has recently been invested in building a school in Estonian history. At the same time, it would be feasible for us and would provide a very quick solution if we took Ida-Virumaa to the internship base of the Academy of Internal Defence, with a budget of about 4.2 million. That's what I think we should do.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U42	Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U43	Thank you. We have been talking for a long time about Estonia taking more country to Ida-Virumaa, and as one of the important measures we have indeed proposed here to take the Academy of Home Affairs to Ida-Virumaa. The government has based its negative positions on the analysis of the National Audit Office, which was based on two starting points. One is whether teaching there could be more economical benefits than elsewhere or whether it would result in better quality. I believe that, in the current situation, it has become clear to all of us that, in this analysis, it is far more important whether the transfer could be necessary for the security of the country. From this point of view, would it not be wise to look at the subject again?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U44	Thank you. As a real security-enhancing step, it would be possible to bring an internship base to Ida-Virumaa. This would mean that there would be hundreds of cadets on the ground at all times. The internship base means that this is not a room study that does not directly increase someone's sense of security, but is a real place where you can learn to be a policeman, for example, and more people can be seen on the streets in uniform. I am certainly not opposed to taking the entire Interior Defence Academy to Ida-Viru County. But if we look at the analyses that have been carried out at a time when both the Minister of Education and Science and the Minister of the Interior were part of a good questioner's party, we will look at the budget allocations that these ministers had planned for their part, and I assure you that the previous Minister of the Interior very strongly pushed the government to allocate EUR 15 million to the Academy of Home Affairs, then this EUR 15 million, which was finally allocated and which remains booked by the Government for the Academy of Home Affairs, is unfortunately not enough to take all the teaching activities to Ida-Virumaa. However, it is 15 million, if you add 4.2 million more, enough to clean up the existing study rooms and put internships, including in practice hundreds of people in Ida-Viru County. So I believe that, as a compromise, it is quite sustainable.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U45	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good Prime Minister! There has been a great deal of talk about a possible drop in the academic quality of the Academy, as officers and other lecturers do not go to work in Ida-Virumaa. For me, as an Estonian citizen and a former Soviet reserve officer, it is completely irrational how it can be that an officer simply does not go. Are our officers prepared to perform their duty only in Tallinn?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U47	Thank you. That's a pretty humorous question. I believe you will even admit that it is not possible to send the teaching staff of the National Defence Academy anywhere by order. Today, however, it is an employment relationship where both sides have a free choice, and your parallel, which comes from another regime, was perhaps not the most accurate one. But I'd like to think together about what our real chances are. After all, we can draw plans here and tell miracle stories that a schoolhouse worth EUR 66.5 million is fit for us. If such drafts were to be initiated by the same party that had on this issue, one could say, the perfection of power, both the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Education and Science, was from this party, then I believe that if they wanted to do so, they would have been able to begin the construction of the building of the Academy of Home Affairs during that time. For some reason, even when there was a responsibility to bear it, it was not done. It must have been realized that at this point in time, 66.5 million are beyond our reach. Let's think together about what we can do. In my opinion, the internship base, which takes 4.2 million, could be done right away. This would be the first step that would actually bring people in. What else? In fact, on several occasions, even during the current government, we have discussed which public authorities could be moved to other regions, including Ida-Viru County. This has been a registry centre. There's this problem that takes a long time to find a skilled workforce in this area, but it's not impossible. We have also discussed that in Ida-Virumaa, where there is quite a decent, I would say, even a very good level of teaching in science, there could be much more opportunities for obtaining IT higher education. This is not an option at this time. This is a specific subject that Katri Raig and I discussed last time in Narva. You could do that, why not? So there is definitely room to improve the situation in Ida-Virumaa, but we are still within the limits of reality, then the debate is much more constructive.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U48	Lembit Kaljuvee, another point to be specified, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good Prime Minister! Listening to these answers deepens my feeling that the Reform Party did not support the transfer of the academy because the bill brought on the table the wrong party for the current government, the IRL. That's a spiteful question, but isn't it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U50	No, it's not. As you know, the IRL has been in the government for a long time, and the IRL has been in the position of Minister of the Interior and Minister of Education and Science for a long time. I might not have expected the opposition to stay in order to draft it. It would have been possible to take action earlier if there had been a firm conviction. While in government, we have not only good ideas but also a responsibility to bear. And this burden of responsibility says it would be irresponsible to leave Muraste's very decent buildings and look somewhere, I don't know, at the expense of families, pensioners or the health sector, that EUR 66 million. Then you tell me what it's for. I do not see this EUR 66 million now, and I remember that neither the previous Minister for the Interior nor the Minister for Education and Science saw this amount in their administration at that moment either. In order to actually get on with this, we need to find the concrete things that are being done, and then we will support East Viru County much more. We can discuss here for ten more years that it might be nice to take the entire National Defence Academy there, to hold a debate, but the debate itself will not improve the situation in Ida-Virumaa. However, the state of Ida-Virumaa would be improved if we could actually do something, and one particular thing I believe is to take the same internship base to Ida-Virumaa. Nothing precludes that the internship base may later expand so that more and more specific disciplines can be taught there. So the direction must be taken and the real steps taken. But billing and issuing orders, without having a source of cover, you can even understand that it is very difficult for a responsible politician to take this seriously.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U51	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U52	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! As an ambassador of Pärnumaa, I represent a region, and if I supported the transfer of the National Defence Academy to Ida-Virumaa, this decision may have damaged the Pärnu County Paikus Police School, a very favorable educational institution. But I think the Estonian state is just as strong as its regions. There are good schools in all regions, there are good people, and it is very disturbing to hear that one or the other public institution cannot be taken to the centre of a region, as there is probably no qualified frame. As for Pärnu, the graduates of Pärnu schools are among the best in Estonia. Just as in Ida-Virumaa there are a lot of industries where energetics and engineers have been found. But no faculty will be found at the National Defence Academy. Was there a firm promise in your previous election platform to take the Interior Defence Academy to Ida-Virumaa?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U53	Thank you. I have not used this argument that in Ida-Virumaa it is not possible to find employees for the National Defence Academy. I'm sure it is, but let's just say it's gonna take some time. If we move to any large educational institution in the Estonian county where specific knowledge is needed, specific know-how is needed, then of course no lecturers will be found overnight. This is self-evident, because it is still such a big institution. I would also very much like the Interior Defence Academy to be able to take to Ida-Virumaa, even in part. And actually, we're doing everything we can to take a considerable part of the National Defence Academy to Ida-Viru County. It's a real step, not a slogan, not a bill, it's a real thing that can be done. If you say that 66.5 million euros can also be paid to the Estonian state, say the source of cover. If you say that, from the point of view of the Estonian state, the responsible Muraste school is completely empty, knowing that millions of euros have been invested in it, both the Estonian taxpayer and the European Union's money, I cannot agree with that until the end. Once again, it is possible to move to Ida-Virumaa a considerable part of the Academy of Internal Defence. In Ida-Virumaa, I believe that there should also be much more opportunities to obtain IT-higher education because, contrary to what you said, I have just recognised the quality of education given in Ida-Virumaa, namely secondary education, teaching sciences. There is also quite a lot of structural unemployment, which could not be the case if there were a proper IT education. We know that there is a shortage of labour in Estonia in the field of information technology. This could be a very clear step to take.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U54	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U55	The next questioner is Marika Tuus-Laul and the question is the Minister of Health and Labour, Urmas Kruus. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U56	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister! Health issues are, of course, very important to people, and right now people are certainly concerned about the breakdown of their teeth. The government is looking at these processes, you could say, on a relatively cold note, because if we look at today's state budget too, the EUR 19 support that was withdrawn in 2009 has not been put back there. The faction of the Centre Party issued a bill in the spring, the content of which was that the elderly could also be treated with dental prosthetic money, which a person would not take advantage of in three years. The principle is to keep the teeth that are still intact. The government said no to this proposal, and now I am asking why you did not support this draft. I'll make sure the Prime Minister has written the answer, but please respond!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U57	Honourable questioner! I do not quite agree that the government is not interested in this matter at all. As Chairman of the Health Insurance Board, I must say the opposite, because the Health Insurance Fund Board has instructed the board to deal with it and to analyse alternative options for human dental health. Oral hygiene, along with dental health care, will certainly have a major impact on public health. I am therefore convinced that this area must be analysed and sustainable things must be done. However, as we agreed in the Health Insurance Board, the Board of the Health Insurance Fund will meet with the representatives of the specialists to bring the final decision-making options that could be considered as proposals before the Health Insurance Fund Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U58	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U59	Thank you. Mr. Minister! We have a description of the problem ourselves, but we need solutions. We did also have a debate on the future of dental care, but Mr Ross, the head of the health insurance fund, made it very clear that there was no money at all, he said that repeatedly for next year. He thought there would be no money even for the next year. I understand that it is as if we are talking about it and looking for solutions. The teeth aren't treated for beauty, the teeth affect the whole body. I ask you why we do not want to support at least these underprivileged people, the unemployed, single mothers, the poor. I mean, you could give them a dental prophylactic check-up money. There's not enough of that money to cure them. Why don't we just go ahead with this a little bit? But if we look at the new budget, there's nothing there.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U60	Thank you, Reverend Asker! When we recall the time when this compensation was in force, we saw that for some reason not all people used it. We expect that if we create something that is so important to public health, the entire population could be a part of it. When we look at the problems of free dental care for children, we also see that not all children, regardless of the fact that it is guaranteed by the health insurance fund, do not take this opportunity. That is why, by analysis, I did not quite mean that we came together and decided simply, but that all these important aspects should be put on the table for analysis. Secondly, I would like to point out that if we look at the whole budget of the Health Insurance Fund, we are looking at an increase of just under EUR 50 million next year, we must consider that the introduction of any new benefits requires sustainable financing. That, too, must be taken into account. This means that we need to find the most sensible means. But we have to admit that current prevention does not work exactly as we have imagined in the ideal picture.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U61	The second point, Marika Tuus-Sing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U62	Thank you. It is clear that we have not received an answer now, and we know that there will be no money for the next year or for the next year. Too bad you could've put that old money back. My next question is about access to healthcare in general care homes. We know that there are old and sick people who are often bedridden, they have been brought there perhaps after a heart attack or a stroke, and the problems are very serious. But the nurse and the doctor aren't there for these sick people. By the way, we know that the ambulance doesn't want to go there either, and the family doctor doesn't go because of the distance. That is a very difficult question. Why not make sure that a doctor or at least a nurse visits the nursing home once a week? Why don't we help these people a little more on the night of their lives and treat them a little better? That is an extremely sharp question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U63	Thank you, Reverend Asker! Certainly, the dignified ageing and the services we need in old age are extremely important to us. When we look at the current family medical system, each person has chosen, if possible, the most appropriate family doctor to deal with his or her health in the first stage. If we look at different institutions, there are solutions to how possible medical care is guaranteed. When we are talking about emergency assistance, this assistance is guaranteed to every citizen of the Republic of Estonia on the basis of his or her state of health or a specific case. It is certain that, over the next few years, we will want to invest more in primary healthcare, both through staff and through services.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U64	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U65	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! It's no secret that everyone knows that specialized doctors' queues are very, very long. You have solved this situation, of course, very brilliantly: it has been determined which order may be available to a doctor in one field or another, the queues will be kept, everything will be in order, everything will be in order, everything will be okay. In fact, people are still not satisfied with this situation. And if it turns out that some people haven't gone to the doctor and the place is vacant, then it's not for hooliganic motives, it's just that in the past few months, the person has either recovered or died. In any case, these queues are and will be filled, but people are still not satisfied because the needs are quite different. What are you going to do to reduce the number of specialist doctors?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U66	Thank you, Reverend Askers! If we look at purely statistics and the volume of specialist medical care services in the first quarter of 2014, it was 135.4 million, which is 19 million euros larger than last year. This means that universal access to the insured has improved. If you are referring to queues, you have to admit that there are shorter or longer queues than prescribed, and this is different from region to region. If you ask what we can do, there are a number of future measures. You also mentioned in your question that some people are not coming to the doctor, I think, for reasons like yours, that they are either dead or already healed. There may be about 10% of these people. One of the things that will help to remedy this situation in the future is the national pre-registration office, the digital registration office. This will, on the one hand, facilitate registration and help patients to choose the most suitable appointment time for themselves, but, on the other hand, it will provide a more flexible way of communicating information at a time when one patient is giving up his or her medical appointment. The second part of the reduction in treatment queues is certainly linked to improving the efficiency of primary health care.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U67	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U68	Thank you. My second question, Minister, is this. At the moment, we have such an ambulance order that, if there are competitions for ambulance areas, there is a rip-off because of the sweeter areas, but to those that somehow dislike service providers, nobody makes an offer. After a long time there'll be lawsuit. A message just came in that the ambulance was now working in one area. Shouldn't the ambulance be arranged differently, because the ambulance is still a strategically important service? Does it have to be in the hands of private companies that compete with each other? However, could there not be a nationally managed structure that is clear and rational? Wouldn't it be better to give up this private matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U69	Thank you, Reverend Asker! The ambulance service is certainly a strategically important health service in Estonia. As a minister, I am delighted that there will also be nearly 2.2 million euros in next year's budget to complete the ambulance reform, with seven new sister brigades in different areas of Estonia, such as Tartu and Häädemeeste. As far as current competition conditions are concerned, all participants in the competition must meet conditions and requirements that are primarily based on human health and health. This means that no matter which institution provides the service, it is important that the service is provided in a quality manner. If you refer to a recent case in Ida-Virumaa, the winner of the competition must ensure a quality service 24 hours a day. I visited the site myself, and I can say that all the conditions for ensuring a high-quality service have been set up, and those ambulance workers who previously worked in another foundation have mostly started working for the winner of the competition. So in this respect, I have no doubt about the quality of health professionals.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U70	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U71	The next questioner is Jaak Aaviksoo and the question is Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U72	Prime Minister! As is well known, the government has adopted an educational strategy aimed at bringing teachers' pay to an average level of 120% of the national average wage level for graduate workers. At what pace and on what decisions does the current government want to reach this goal? I will not find such plans in the 2015 budget or in the country's budgetary strategy until 2019.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U73	Thank you. This objective remains very topical for us and, of course, we want teachers' pay to grow faster than the average of the Republic. This is the only way to achieve this goal. More specifically, it is possible to read about the rise in teachers' pay in today's paper, where the Minister of Education and Research describes how the minimum wage is to be raised. Based on this same statement from the Minister for Education and Research, it can be said that the increase from EUR 800 to EUR 880 is significant. This is expected to be significantly higher than the average wage increase. Also, according to my information, the increase in the teachers' payroll is on average faster. How, within this newly assembled budget, distributions can be made, and what structural adjustments are expected of each municipality, the Minister of Education and Research can tell you exactly. I can say so much about the budget that the education support granted to municipalities is increasing from 205.8 million to 223.6 million. The lion's share of this, as you know, is the wage subsidy granted to municipal schools for teachers and the total increase is 9.2%. Adding here the knowledge that the increase in the pay of teachers is a priority for the government, it can be certain that these internal divisions will also come in such a way that this money actually reaches the teachers.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U74	Jaak Aaviksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U75	I also ask this a little because, in previous years, the increase in teachers' salaries was a clear priority and almost all the resources in the education sector were directed there. This led to an increase of 25% in two years and an average teacher's salary of more than EUR 1000 by the end of this year. But now more and more is being heard that the government is preparing decisions that allow teachers' salaries to be used for purposes other than the pay paid to teachers, which will certainly not contribute to the wage increase. Do such schemes exist and do you personally support the use of teachers' salaries for other purposes?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U76	Thank you. Decibells and content must always be consistent. It is true that, if there is not much to be said about some issues, it cannot yet be said that this is not a priority. I am absolutely sure that, as in today's papers, it is possible to read that the rise in teachers' salaries will continue to be a priority for the government next year, and this will be heard in public. I consider it very appropriate for the Minister for Education and Research to behave in such a way that he said the percentage and the amount when he had confidence that the budget had money for it. At different times, the budget negotiations have been held in very different ways, and this is also the way that I do not refer to anyone in concrete terms and do not want to blame anyone for the fact that, first, the amount has gone public and, after that, at the negotiating table. At the moment, the Minister for Education and Science has, in my opinion, behaved very correctly; he has first obtained the assurance that this amount is foreseen in the budget. And as you can see from what has been said in today's paper, there is no reason for anyone to be ashamed to say these sums straight. I assure you that your concern about your former field, which is completely understandable in itself, is in vain in the sense that, even now, teachers are also being made sure that salaries increase.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U77	Jaak Aaviksoo, a second point for clarification, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U78	I'm a little uncomfortable, but I'm still repeating my question, because the answer was interesting, but unfortunately it didn't concern my question. I'll ask you again. Salaries have been allocated to local authorities in recent years as salaries for teachers, including primary schools and upper secondary schools separately. As far as I am aware, the government has prepared materials that will in future allow it to move around more freely with this money and use it for other costs, not only for teachers' salaries at the appropriate level of school. My question is this: are such stories true and do you personally support the use of teachers' payroll for other purposes?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U79	Thank you. After all, it is difficult to comment on rumors. I think you're about to get a chance to ask the Minister for Education and Science from here on the remote, whether or not there are plans in his house for a matter, and then you can clearly draw a line on these rumors. It is clear, though, that money, which is intended to pay teachers' salaries, must also be spent on teachers' salaries. Here, in my opinion, there can be no doubt or dual understanding.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U80	The Question Time of the Riigikogu is closed. The Riigikogu thanks the members of the government for answering questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U81	Honourable Riigikogu! The session of the third working week of the VIIIth plenary session will open on Wednesday. Now is a great opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U82	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Indrek Sirk, a well-known attorney at law, has said very well that selling alcohol at gas stations is the same as selling firearms in bank offices. We believe that gas stations should not be involved in the sale of alcoholic beverages, but in the sale of fuel. The sale of alcohol at petrol stations is certainly not in line with the Green Paper on alcohol policy adopted by the government. It made sense to impose a limit on the sale of alcohol at night across Estonia a few years ago, following the example of Tallinn. I'm sure it's been of benefit to us. But the government's recent steps in alcohol policy have all been taken back, not further. As a result, I will, together with my colleagues from the Centre Party Group, address four questions to Minister for Justice, Andres Anvelt, and we will ask the Minister to respond to them in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U83	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U84	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! At the request of the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu, I hand over one draft. The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu initiates a draft law amending the Law on termination and sterilization of pregnancy by the Chancellor of Justice, no. 27, which removes restrictions on the termination of pregnancy of a minor person, which is contrary to the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U85	Representative of the Government of the Republic Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U86	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching six draft laws today. First, the draft law on state fees. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Secondly, the draft law amending the State Death Allowance Act. Thirdly, the draft law amending the State Family Benefits Act. The Minister of Social Protection Helmen Kütt represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of these two draft laws in the Riigikogu. Fourthly, the draft law amending the law on student grants and student loans and related amendments to other laws. Fifthly, the draft law amending the Social Tax Act and the Health Insurance Act. Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Education and Science, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia when dealing with these draft laws in the Riigikogu. Sixth, the 2015 State Budget Act. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U87	A total of seven drafts and one inquiry have been adopted. The Management Board shall deliver them in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U88	Honourable Riigikogu! Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas has expressed his wish to make a political statement. In agreement with the management board of the Riigikogu, this statement is valid for up to 20 minutes. We have also agreed that no questions will be asked to the Prime Minister after this statement, but the representatives of the political groups have the right to participate in the negotiations. Please, Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U89	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! The government has just handed you the draft State Budget Act 2015. When drawing up the budget, we were based on the fact that our goal is to increase the security of the Estonian people. This means greater prosperity for Estonians. It means knowing that the finances are in order. It means guaranteed security. Good Riigikogu! The government gave you a budget of confidence. This year has sent a dark shadow to what is happening in Ukraine. Ukraine has a neighbour who does not respect borders and conducts aggression against an independent European country. This neighbour is, of course, common to Ukraine. As it also affects our confidence, it is inevitable, but the aggression of our eastern neighbour is not news to us. We have acted wisely and have been able to defend ourselves well. Estonia is a member of the world's largest and strongest military-political alliance, and there is no doubt about the functioning of collective defence. We've done everything we can to make sure we're never alone again. The NATO summit at the beginning of September once again confirmed this. NATO treats an attack on one of its members as an attack on everyone. The President of the United States, Barack Obama, who visited Estonia three weeks ago, told us directly: 'With the help of NATO, Estonia will never lose its independence. ' 'But it is the loyalty of the Estonians to their values and the support of our friends to the Estonian tantrum that allows us to count on their help in the same way today and tomorrow, but more effectively than in the past,' said President Lennart Meri from this very speaker in 2001. I agree with him fully now, 13 years later. Above all, however, our security is firmly protected because we ourselves are ready to act to sustain our country so that we can make the choices we consider necessary. That is why we will be spending an amount corresponding to 2% of GDP on defence in the coming year, and we will also cover the costs of accepting allies. This amounts to EUR 412 million. We pay the necessary price for protecting our country because our freedom is priceless. As Prime Minister, I assure you that Estonia is firmly protected. As important as military protection is national security. National defence is not just the task of the Defence Forces; it is the responsibility of all public authorities, in fact the whole society. In the 2015 budget, we have planned investments in rescue, border guards and police buildings and equipment. These investments will improve working conditions and make protecting the safety of our people even more effective and effective. We will make investments of fundamental importance next year on the eastern border of Estonia. We start by clearing the border line, establishing a proper fence and investing even more in modern surveillance equipment. Those who say that the Estonian border is currently poorly guarded are wrong. But it will be much better, and with investment, we will make the work of hundreds of men and women working at the eastern border much more efficient. Confidence is also important to us in the economy. In spring and summer, it was considered quite possible that the Estonian economy had reached another recession. Now we know that was not the case. However, we also know that economic problems in Europe and in our neighbouring countries make it more difficult for us to grow. The economy is forecast to grow by 2.5% next year, but the risks are high and things can go differently. That means our plans have to be made with a spare. The state budget has, of course, been prepared conservatively. Our objective is a structural budget surplus of 0.8% of GDP, which is considerably more than the 0.2% planned in the spring. We are also ready if real life doesn't care about predictions. The revenue for the 2015 budget is EUR 8.4 billion and costs EUR 8.5 billion, which is about half a billion more than in 2014. Such an increase is also partly possible due to better tax collection, which has been made possible by the creation of a work register and by changes in the collection of VAT. Efforts to collect taxes more fairly will continue in the coming year. At the same time, I stress that the tax burden will not increase, and this is a conscious decision by the government. When borrowing, the state is balanced and thinks of future generations. If you don't need to borrow, you don't need to. The 2015 budget has been drawn up in view of the fact that the share of employees receiving public remuneration must not increase; the state must act effectively and effectively. The planned reforms will do just to make sure that the costs will be lower in the future, but that the results will be better than they are today. I mention just a few of the reforms that are being planned: the reform of working capacity, the reform of the school network, the ambulance reform, the improvement of police procedures, speeding up judicial procedures. In the coming year, the wage fund for staff paid from the state budget will increase by at least 3%, with the salaries of teachers and social, cultural and internal security workers rising much more than this. Internal restructuring is an opportunity to increase wages even more than the growth of the payroll fund. Many European Structural Funds funds will actually be available next year, the first calls for proposals of which will be opened within the next few months or two. We use European money to make changes that will produce long-term positive effects, whether productivity and added value increase, new knowledge and skills, growing welfare of Estonian residents or reform. The state can intervene directly in the economy as rarely as possible and only where it is necessary. One of the country's most important contributions to the promotion of the economy is the financing of infrastructure projects. In this way, a number of major road construction works and the development of the rail network continue. The new acceleration of development will be e-state. The 2015 budget includes a reduction in labour taxes, a reduction in income tax rates and unemployment insurance contributions, as well as an increase in tax-free income. The reduction in labour taxes supports employment and increases the income of families. It is right to recall the competitiveness index of OECD tax systems published a few weeks ago. The most competitive tax system is in Estonia. This shows that we have been on the right track. However, in order to remain on top, we must move forward, reduce the tax burden on labour and keep the tax system from being overly complex and bureaucratic. Success must not put us to sleep; we must tirelessly seek innovative solutions to stay on top. One of the most difficult tasks that the Estonian state will have to deal with for years and decades to come is population decline and ageing. There are no simple and quick solutions here, but we have far from taken advantage of all the possibilities to solve this problem. There are many among us who wish to participate in working life but have so far been excluded. This has been unfair not only to these people but to society as a whole. Helping people with partial working capacity to work makes Estonia healthier in many ways. No one must be left out in Estonia and it is important to continue to prepare for the work capacity reform. Increasing unemployment and increasing labour shortages only confirm that the time for reform is ripe. In a good learning environment, if there are no economic concerns, knowledge will also become smoother. The government will continue to organise the school network, increase the salaries of teachers and a number of grants for students, including doctoral students. It is important that Estonian families are able to cope as best as possible. The most secure guarantee of subsistence is, of course, a worthwhile job. Although unemployment is falling in Estonia and wages are rising, there are also those who need support from the state. The budget that will be transferred to you will cover a number of weighty decisions that will improve families' livelihoods and give them confidence tomorrow. Children's benefits will increase significantly from 2015 and the limits for families with children will increase. Most of all, totalling EUR 90, children's benefits will increase for families most in need of public support. Families' incomes are also increased by the above-mentioned fall in income tax and the increase in tax exemptions. The most dignified members of society also need security. I would like to emphasise that pensions will increase on average by 5.9% in the spring, and we will also make sure that the average old-age pension, which will rise to EUR 374 per month, is exempt from income tax. Some confidence is based on the knowledge that our living environment will remain viable in the future. In addition to protecting rarity and preserving the nature of Estonia, we make investments to clean up contaminated areas and water bodies and to ensure clean drinking water. In the budget for the coming year, we will also make significant investments for Estonian culture. I will mention only two: we will begin the establishment of the Arvo Pärt Centre, and the last of the great theatres will be capitalised Ugala. Good listeners! When the government took office in spring, the government coalition was criticised for being overly ambitious. I am pleased to see that we are fulfilling our goals. The 2015 budget is based on the objectives and principles agreed in the spring, and also takes into account the external environment, which has not set us up to face particularly pleasant problems. The budget for next year will provide certainty for all people living in Estonia. He gives the assurance that it is safer to live in Estonia. He gives assurance that families will have a better life and that future generations will not be burdened with debt. He gives us confidence that we will be able to cope even if things in the world go worse than we hoped. In the end, I hope he will build our confidence in the sense of self-confidence. I'll use the words of ten contestants Mikk Pahailli: 'You have to know what you're doing. Still confident, not sluggish. Confidence is the foundation. ' Honourable Riigikogu! The draft 2015 State Budget Act passed on to you has been drafted responsibly, providing certainty for the Estonian population for both short and longer periods of time, both in direct and indirect terms. This is the best budget that can be made under the current circumstances. That is not enough. I therefore call on you to support the budget proposed by the government and I wish you a constructive debate. Thank you! Good luck!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U90	I'm opening negotiations. Kadri Simson, on behalf of the Centre Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U91	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen, A moment ago, we were given the draft state budget for the coming year. We've heard a lot of good things about this in the last few weeks. To quote the Prime Minister, the emergence of a new self-confident chancellor has almost given the impression that there is no less revenue than expenditure in this budget. But we are in the same situation as the funeral, where the deceased is spoken only of good. I am sure that the three substantial months ahead of the Riigikogu will also highlight the other side of the budget. According to the Prime Minister, the priorities of next year's state budget are the security of the Estonian people, the security, the growth in well-being and the management of families. I believe that all the political groups of the Riigikogu will sign it. We want the streets to have the courage to walk on the dark autumn nights. We want firefighters to reach every place in Estonia at the right time when the red rooster is operating. We want the people of Estonia to be better off living here and the country would favour large families and raising children. Unfortunately, it must not remain merely a slogan, and the Centre Party will not allow it to remain a slogan. Why am I referring to a slogan? For where is the confidence when the budget for internal security or the administration of the Ministry of the Interior is almost frozen in this budget? In the state budget next year, there are at least three things for which the Centre Party has been standing for for years: free school meals reaching upper secondary school level, increased universal child support and full payout of pensions in the index. If there is always a dispute over the tax-free minimum, whether anyone else has stood by the Minister for Finance to increase it, this issue should certainly not arise in the case of school food support. According to the amendments to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, a free school lunch was introduced at 1/4. it was extended to the whole comprehensive school as well as to the vocational school in 2002 and then, in 2006. Both times our colleague, Mailis Reps, was the Minister of Education. Since then, the Centre Party has tried to establish a free school lunch for upper secondary school students as well. In this Riigikogu, we have initiated a draft on this subject twice: on 5 April 2011 and on 10 April 2014. Now reading the government bill on the table, we can see that it is also based on the explanatory memorandum to the Centre Party draft. It doesn't matter to us whose signed bill guarantees free meals for upper secondary school students, but unfortunately the government here has done only half as Toots did. The rapid rise in food prices has made it very difficult for school caterers to offer a healthy warm school lunch for 78 cents. Food prices have increased by 23.1% compared to 2010, but at the same time, school lunch support has increased by only 4%. Our aim is still to increase the school lunch grant to at least one euro, which is a real cost. The state budget for next year will eventually be eliminated by one big disgrace, the fact that child support has not been increased for 10 years. During this decade, food prices have risen by 61.6% and housing costs more than twice. We believe that this should not be a one-off increase; child support should not be frozen again for 10 years. The minimum that can be offered to families with children is that universal child support is indexed in the same way as pensions, and it goes along with increasing cost of living. In addition to internal security, the major problems of next year will certainly be financing local roads and agricultural subsidies. While the Road Act so far stipulated that 75% of the fuel excise duty would be directed to road maintenance, the amendment adopted by the new coalition with the votes of the new coalition no longer ensures this. Of course, this does not automatically mean the loss of local road savings, but experience shows that this has happened when the obligation imposed by law has disappeared. An Estonian farmer, as we know, sees less sun than his southern colleagues, but at the same time his benefits are smaller than in southern Europe. Here the European Union has come to the aid and allows the Estonian state to pay more subsidies, which are currently not visible in the Estonian budget. Rather, the share of the budget for farmers is shrinking. The Centre Party will allow a very constructive debate in the next three months. We will definitely propose our amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U92	Does Kadri Simson want more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U93	Yeah. I will use the extra time at first, second and third readings of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U94	Thank you. There are still requests to speak. On behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, Urmas Reinsalu, please! Three minutes to Urmas Reinsalu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U95	Mr. Prime Minister! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! This budget is an interim budget before the next 2015 elections. I congratulate the government that the government managed to make the budget and was able to present it to the Riigikogu in time. There are certainly a number of things in this budget that had to be done, which Parliament has decided to do, and it makes every sense to do so. Speaking of central, greater weight and impact in this budget, I think it is important to emphasise that expenditure in this budget exceeds revenue. In the past, Estonia's monetary policy objective was to balance the budget nominally by 2015, but it is clear from the current draft budget that this objective will not be met. We are reaching a situation where our debts are EUR 320 million larger than our reserves. In his speech, the Prime Minister said that we must be conservative, because the future of our economic prospects can be indeterminate. The IRL has drawn attention to this and will continue to draw attention to it. It is particularly important to monitor what is happening to real money, i.e. loans and reserves. It is a fact that the state's assets with this budget will ultimately decrease and we will live at the expense of the reserves collected. The question is whether we have a crisis that should be alleviated or a growing season if reserves are to be collected. Thus, Estonia's net assets will decrease, the central government will spend nearly 150 million euros in 2015 on reserves, which is significantly more than the 51 million euros needed to restore the pension pillar, which has been identified as the main reason for budget imbalances. Thus, reserves are not used for paying debts or significant investments, but rather for running costs. The questions remain as to why reserves are used to cover current expenditure. What are we going to do if the economy is actually shrinking under the risk scenario and how much of our ever smaller reserves will be sufficient to survive this long and deep crisis? These issues are central to the responsible, or monetary, side of the budget. Secondly, the Prime Minister spoke here about giving families confidence. One of the most central things that a country can offer confidence with its demographic measures is that we do not give an insecurity, an insecurity-inspiring signal that it breaks its word. I regret that this summer, a legislative amendment with the coalition's votes, that the maternity pension will be abolished from the beginning of 2015, which is also included in this budget, means that we have signaled that the parents who have raised their children are not offering the state confidence, but are creating uncertainty. Third, people's economic livelihood. The ten-euro rise in the tax-free minimum, which leaves two euros in the right direction for people, for all those who receive income, but does not really solve the problem of people having difficulty coping financially. The Fatherland and Res Publica Association sent a draft law on low-paid tax reform with an explanatory memorandum to coordination yesterday. Our thinking is simple: it is not appropriate to tax people on income tax, on the one hand, and to give social benefits to people who could be helped by a tax credit, in particular, through public taxes. Our proposal is simple and clear: to introduce a tax exemption for low-wage earners in Estonia. It is a real measure that creates more jobs, boosts the economy and solves the problems faced by a very large group of society. Firstly, it helps to reduce poverty. Secondly, it helps to ensure that the person who is employed is able to live out of his or her salary without the need for social benefits. Thirdly, it improves people's motivation to work and contributes to reducing unemployment. This, too, is a real issue that is to be resolved in advance of the 2015 elections in the debate of all political parties. This budget is an interim budget, it is a budget for preparing for the elections of the government coalition. In the run-up to the 2015 elections, political parties are looking for answers to real questions and the choices that Estonia is facing with long-term impact. The central questions are as follows: First of all, dealing with people. Secondly, the outlook for the economy and how it is possible for the state to bring the Estonian economy up with its political steps and economic policy. Thirdly, this budget has been drawn up on the basis of routine. Also on the basis of this routine, which concerns the organisation and maintenance costs of the Estonian state. The Prime Minister pointed out as a virtue of the budget that it is exactly the same as it was before. But my question is whether the country or the state apparatus we have now has is whether we can sustain it in the longer term. This, too, is a real question to which the Estonian political parties must provide an answer in one way or another and which will certainly be discussed both in Parliament during the budgetary procedure and in the run-up to the Riigikogu elections. In his speech, the Prime Minister touched on national defence. This is a cross-party issue. The Fatherland and Res Publica Union have proposed to conclude a national defence agreement between political parties in order to strengthen our independent defence capabilities, so that national defence issues are not a day-toy or marketing activity in this style, that I will come up with an idea when there is a debate in society, then I will take it back and come up with another idea. This must be long-term and permanent work and must be the joint work of all political forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U96	On behalf of the Reform Party Group, Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U97	Honourable Chairman! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, The drafting of the state budget is a difficult task for every government union. The images that opposition politicians painted in the spring on the dark prospects of the state budget have not come true. Revenue has been even better than planned and economic prospects remain moderately optimistic. The government budget plan was usually prepared tensely and emotionally in the government, but as an observer, I can say that, according to my impression, it took place even more constructively and smoothly than in previous years. Revenues have also been better than expected this year and more than 6% more revenue will be expected next year than this year. The summer economic forecast prepared by the Ministry of Finance, which is the basis for the budget, will allow 2.5% growth next year. This coincides with the updated growth forecast published by Eesti Pank yesterday. The fact that tax revenues are coming at a faster rate than the economy is growing in real terms is due to the fact that nominal GDP growth and changes in the structure of the economy are also affected by the real growth of the economy, as well as the real growth of the economy. At current prices, the economy is growing by 6% and tax revenues are mainly affected by the nominal growth rate. The good collection of tax revenues is also affected by faster growth in private consumption and wages, as well as by state measures to better collect taxes. Rapid wage growth and the persistence of employment rates increase social tax revenues. Therefore, the claim that the sources of budget revenue growth are unknown cannot be criticised. Yes, we do. Next year, the European Union's new financial period will also open up. They can be directed towards road construction, school network development, culture, environmental projects and other areas, as well as promoting productivity and e-state. The resources of the new period will also increase non-tax revenues. The opposition has pointed out for some reason that this is the election year's budget. In the election year, too, the state budget is being made and, if the security situation requires contributions to external and internal security, defence and internal security must also be strengthened in the election year budget. Coping with people and improving their confidence are also areas that must be contributed as much as possible. The state budget situation makes it possible to increase the income of families with children as well as pensions and the wages of civil servants. In order for the state to be prepared to cope with internal and external threats, the state budget next year will improve its defence capacity and contribute to internal security. The budget for defence costs will increase by EUR 28 million compared to this year, while the internal security budget will increase by EUR 21 million. Additional funds will be allocated to improve border security this year and additional funds will be provided for next year's budget. In addition to investment technology, the salaries of border guards increase more than the overall wage increase planned for the state budget. There is also a marked increase in the budget for social protection costs: pensions cost more than EUR 100 million more than this year, family allowances budget increases by EUR 78 million. Improving the confidence of families with children and the elderly is a clear priority of the budgetary plan. In order for the economic environment to stimulate growth, it is important to keep the tax system competitive in comparison with countries and to move forward towards lowering labour taxes. Reduction of income tax and unemployment insurance contributions and increase of the tax-free minimum... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U98	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U99	... are real steps to reduce labour taxes. The overall tax burden will remain at this year's level. The budgetary plan follows the fiscal framework agreed at national level, both within the European Union and within our borders, and is designed to support growth. Following the proposal of the Fiscal Council at Eesti Pank, the structural balance is planned to be 0.2 percentage point higher than in the spring budget strategy. Conservative attitudes are needed because the economic situation continues to be affected by the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, and our main export markets are heavily affected. Growth in the euro area has unexpectedly slowed down and the current recovery in the euro area economies is losing momentum. For this reason, the conservative stance of the budgetary plan is well-founded. The 2015 Draft Budgetary Plan follows this approach and ensures a framework that provides better external and internal security, improves the livelihood of all people and supports economic growth. I want an effective and conservative approach to the budgetary procedure. Let me remind you that we now have the opportunity to process the budget on the basis of the new budget law that we have adopted and approved. Have a successful budget procedure! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U100	On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, Rannar Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U101	Thank you. First of all, Mr President, I would like to ask for an extra three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U102	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U103	Ladies and gentlemen, Good guests! The Prime Minister, during his presentation on the budget, called it a budget of confidence. In itself, there are many aspects that can be accepted. Indeed, this budget contributes more to security and, above all, to external security than has ever been the case before. In view of the current security situation, given our geopolitical location, which is why we are certainly more vulnerable to threats than any other country, it makes perfect sense, one could even say it was possible. Similarly, there are other nuances that speak of greater confidence in this budget. For example, the budget as such in a wider sense or its balance, in fact, the position of the balance on the positive side in structural terms, i.e. that the budget is in structural balance with 0.8%. Given the relatively uncertain prospects of the economy, this is certainly a sensible approach. This will ensure that if any tax receipts are lower than projected, the budget still remains in line with what has been agreed in the European Union, i.e. structurally balanced or on the upside. In this sense, it can be accepted that this budget bears a nuance of confidence. At the same time, I would not tend to call it a budget of confidence, because in my opinion, confidence refers in its essence to prudence, which rather wants to preserve things rather than change things. The coalition agreement was signed at the beginning of spring, and it seems to me that such a spring breath, freshness and novelty are also very much borne by this budget. Just as the coalition, as has been mentioned here, was at first accused of being an overly ambitious coalition. I agree, it's an ambitious coalition. The situation in which we were in the spring was difficult given these ambitions, but I believe that this budget has been quite successful in fulfilling these ambitions. I therefore think that this budget bears more freshness and novelty than conservativeness. Why am I saying this? Indeed, for years, the Social Democrats have criticised budgets precisely because a number of important changes have not been made in society. Actually, there are quite a few things that are different this autumn. I will start with the most important issue for us, i.e. the rise in child support. When we celebrated last year that there had been no child support for 10 years, namely, the first and second child support, then now it really is eleven years since the first and second child support last rose. But this eleventh year will be the last year in this series because, from 1 January next year, child support will rise to EUR 45, as much as you will come to those who need this money even more than the wider part of society, i.e. children of low-income families, and third child support will rise to EUR 100. However, there are other issues. If you stay with the kids again, I'll tell you about school food. For years, the Social Democrats have proposed that school food, which is currently free of charge for primary school pupils, should also be free of charge for gymnasts according to the same principles. For years, however, reasons have been found for not doing so: it has not been considered reasonable, it has been argued that there is no connection to the period of compulsory schooling, or money has simply not been found. From next year, school meals in upper secondary schools are free of charge. However, for example, additional income support for families with children is also a new principle in the budget for next year, which has not yet been included in the budget. This will certainly ease the situation of families with children receiving income support. In fact, novel moments are not limited to children, although it can indeed be said that children are the main focus of this budget. If we take tax policy, for example, the increase in the tax-free rate has been mentioned for years, but the words remain. The tax-free rate will increase next year. In itself, this increase of EUR 10 is certainly not something that could be limited, but the beginning is done. I believe that the next budgets will further increase the tax-free rate. The same applies to unemployment insurance. We have criticised this for balancing the budget, but from next year we have provided the means for unemployment insurance to fall. If the representative of the Centre Party from this remote point of view referred to a funeral mood, there is no way to agree with that. But on this subject, it is certainly worth mentioning that the funeral allowance will recover from next year, for those with low incomes to alleviate the problems caused by the cost of burying the deceased. But I don't want to end up in a morbid tone. Looking into the face of a newborn person, different names tend to come to mind. The same is true this time. I think that the name given to the budget is not of the utmost importance in itself, but it seems to me that this budget speaks more of me as a budget of novelty or progress, rather than as a budget of confidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U104	The negotiations have been concluded and the subject has been dealt with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U105	We're gonna do a presence check. 82 members of the Riigikogu are present, 19 is missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U106	The next item is the first reading of the draft Act 710 on the ratification of the Treaty on the prevention of double taxation and prevention of tax evasion between the Republic of Estonia and the Kingdom of Morocco initiated by the Government of the Republic. The initiating waitress is Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U107	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The purpose of double taxation agreements is to encourage investment between contractual partners, prevent discriminatory taxation and prevent tax evasion. Estonia's tax treaties are based on the OECD Standard Agreement. The agreement between Estonia and Morocco was signed in New York on 25 September 2013. The differences between the Agreement between Estonia and Morocco from the OECD Standard Agreement are as follows: If the recipient of the dividend holds a holding of at least 25% in the company, the highest rate of retention on the dividend shall be 6% of the gross amount and, in other cases, 10%. In the standard contract, the withholding tax rate is 5% for holdings of at least 25% and 15% in other cases. The State of the source of income may respect 10% of the gross amount of the licence fee, and the standard agreement shall only confer the right to tax on the State of residence of the recipient of the licence fee. An undertaking shall have a permanent establishment in another country if it has been providing services there for more than three months. The Treaty between Estonia and Morocco adds that income from teaching or research in educational establishments in another country may not be taxed during the first two years. The agreement does not provide additional tax opportunities for countries, but limits the tax rights already established in existing national law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U108	Questions for the waitress. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U109	President-in-Office of the Council. Good waitress! Is there a hunch or an overview of the extent to which residents or companies of the Kingdom of Morocco have so far invested in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U110	Thank you. It is.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U111	No further questions for the originator's waitress. The rapporteur for the Commission is Peeter Laurson, member of the Monetary Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U112	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee discussed draft law 710 at its meeting on 15 September. Tiina Hansson, Chief Specialist of the Tax Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, presented the draft as the initiator's representative. The purpose of the Double Taxation Agreement is to facilitate investment between the Contracting Parties and the free movement of capital, technology and people. The obligation to exchange mutual information set out in the Agreement creates additional opportunities to prevent tax fraud. The issues discussed by the Commission were as follows: They asked which countries the agreement had already been concluded with. It turns out that so far such an agreement has been concluded with 56 countries, a list of these countries is available on the website of the Ministry of Finance. It also asked why there were no agreements with Japan, Austria or Chile. It turns out that the other party to the agreement has so far not been interested in this, as economic relations are not so close at present. The following consensual decisions were taken by the Commission: to put the draft on the agenda for today, Wednesday, 24 September, to close the first reading and to set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 4 p.m. on 3 October. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U113	No questions for the waitress. Thank you, Peter Laurson! The Commission has proposed to close the first reading, with no other proposals. I'll prescribe a draft of 710... Excuse me, do you have a wish to participate in the negotiations? You see, I predicted correctly, there's no wish. The Commission has proposed to close the first reading of draft 710. I will set the deadline of 3 October at 16 a.m. for the submission of draft 710 amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U114	The next item is the first reading of the draft Act amending § 42 of the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The initiator's waitress is Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Education and Science. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U115	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will introduce you to the draft Act amending § 42 of the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, which is very short and clear. It foresees that from 1 January next year, upper secondary school students will also receive a school lunch supported by the state. In order for a little over 22000 upper secondary school students to get free school lunch in cooperation with local authorities next year, the state will allocate more than three million euros. The majority of upper secondary school students, nearly 20000, study in municipal schools and the largest part of this additional funding is also allocated to local governments. They also receive support from private school holders, while in private schools they study a little over 1000 upper secondary school students. Free school lunches will also receive a little more than 1,500 upper secondary schools. In summary, this means that if up to now EUR 136,5 per pupil per year has been allocated at primary school level, then in the future this amount will also be allocated for the catering of upper secondary school students. This is an important change, which will certainly have a positive impact on families' livelihoods and improve the well-being of upper secondary school students while they are studying at school. The internship is currently that more than half of upper secondary school students do not eat school lunch for various reasons. Some do not want to eat it, but the material situation of their parents will certainly have a significant effect. Of course, the further away from the big cities we go, the greater the positive impact of this change on the social livelihood of families. This is certainly an important measure to ensure the functioning of the principle of the School of Unity in Estonia, so that education is free and equally good in all corners of Estonia. I'd be happy to answer your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U116	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Liisa-Ly Pakosta!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U117	Thank you, good waitress. First of all, I congratulate you, this is a very good initiative and a very good draft. I would also like to thank the Riigikogu for its open discussion in the Committee on Culture, where it turned out that this so-called free upper secondary school lunch may also mean that a considerable part of the cost of lunch must be paid by the municipality or the parent will continue to pay for lunch. Will you be so kind as to explain what these options are so that a school lunch can cover 30 to 35% of the daily food needs of a growing gymnast?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U118	Thank you. As noted in the Committee on Culture, the principle of national school lunch grant from the outset has been that it covers not all the costs related to the provision of school lunch, but only food. It is clear that, as food prices rise, it is certainly appropriate to consider whether public support should not be higher. At the same time, it has been clear and from the outset that free school lunches are guaranteed in cooperation between the state and local authorities in all municipalities. The expansion of the range of school lunches also means that we expect continued solidarity from local authorities. We have discussed this issue with the local governments. At the same time, it can be pointed out that in several municipalities of Estonia the local government has already provided free school lunch at upper secondary school level. In these municipalities, the state will contribute to this funding in the future, i.e. it will even have a positive impact on their budget. This is certainly a specific issue that I referred to in the Committee on Culture. This is related to how local authorities and schools have organised the provision of free school lunches. This practice is quite different and the final price has also been significantly different in local governments, which makes sense since in some smaller municipalities the costs are lower than in some large cities. However, municipalities have applied very different models and consequently the final price has become different. Unfortunately, as of now, we do not have a comprehensive picture of how this has been done in different places.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U119	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. In your opinion, would it not be more logical and practical to decouple school nutrition from education policy and link it to the activities of the Ministry of Social Affairs? In that case, the picture would be clearer. It would then be like the type of social benefits and would not specifically spread away from educational issues on such extraneous, support-structural issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U120	It is already in the Estonian state that the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, where these points concerning school food are laid down, is under the administration of the Ministry of Education and Research and we are responsible for complying with this law. I don't think we're gonna get away with this. The Ministry of Education also has to deal with many other support structural issues, which, in their content, are indeed somewhere on the border between the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Education and Research. In general, we are trying to keep this cooperation as good as possible. I certainly do not agree with the questioner's claim that the preparation and processing of this bill would somehow have significantly diverted our energy from the content of education. In my opinion, this particular money does not matter in principle in what line of ministry it has.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U121	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U122	Thank you, manager. Dear Minister of Education, Of course it is a good bill, but unfortunately it has been delayed for so long. But in fact, the additional cost of the state is not 2.7 million, because the number of comprehensive school pupils has fallen a lot and therefore the country has money left. Didn't you ever think about increasing this funding to one euro, which would be more solid?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U123	I hope that I am not very wrong when I say by heart that next year there will be 2000 more children in Estonian general education than there were last year. Growth comes from middle school. Younger students come, but children will continue to be reduced in upper secondary schools. The amount of state support is certainly one issue that has also been discussed repeatedly in this Chamber. The Ministry of Education would not object if this support were higher, but it is linked to the state's financial resources. At the moment, as a first step, we have foreseen that school lunch allowance will also be paid to upper secondary school students. The next step is whether this support should not be higher. Personally, I'm sure I don't mind.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U124	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U125	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! I am pleased that the atmosphere in this Chamber has become more positive, because if I am not mistaken, this is the fourth time that this issue is being discussed here. The previous initiatives initiated by the Centre Party were unfortunately not supported. But I'm asking for EUR 0.78. Can you tell me if it's calculated how much a school lunch could cost? Is it 1 euro, 1 euro and 20 cents, 2 euros? I'm not arguing about that at 0.78 right now. I'm just asking if the school lunch price has been calculated.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U126	First of all, I probably shouldn't have made such statements based on empirical experience in this Chamber. I was just saying this on the basis of my experience, because I've heard about half of high school students don't eat in school when I'm in school. However, it is certainly very different from school to region. So I take my argument back. But when it comes to your particular question, we must once again take this same logic of aid distribution into account. The state pays school lunch grants to local governments for all gymnastics, and local governments and schools decide how to organise this service. If financial resources are spared, if this service is consumed less than expected for some reason, then the school will be able to offer free lunch to a much larger number or to offer something more. This is already the decision of the school and local government. However, it is likely that if the school lunch in the upper secondary school is publicly supported, demand for it will also increase. When it comes to those who have an economic need for this type of support, we have about one fifth of upper secondary school students living in poverty. This is certainly a very clear target group. Those who are over a fewty percent of the poverty line are not in an excessively good economic situation either.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U127	Thank you. Please, Peter Laurson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U128	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. When you calculated the school food allowance, you certainly had to face the actual cost of school food. How much, i.e. how many per cent of the current cost of school food is this EUR 0.78?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U129	Thank you. I don't know if you heard my earlier answers. In essence, I have already answered this question: I cannot say this because, in different municipalities and schools, the school lunch offer has been organised in very different ways and, consequently, it will pay differently. It is certainly a rather difficult task to offer a school lunch for 78 cents, so, to a large extent, either the local government or, in some cases, the parents still have to pay for it. But it is not possible to say how many percent of the cost of a school lunch is because the actual cost varies greatly from school to school.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U130	Thank you. Please, Siret Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U131	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. You said you didn't have a complete picture of the actual cost of school food. Today, the government handed over the state budget. Why didn't you figure it out earlier so you could have signed it up for the state budget? After all, it would be right for the state to ensure that its obligation is fulfilled and that school food is free of charge, not that it remains the responsibility of the local government or the parent.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U132	Thank you. I have to repeat myself again. The state pays the school lunch allowance, just as it pays the teacher's salary allowance. The way the local schoolmaster uses this allowance or how the school specifically organises a school lunch offer is the decision of the local government and the school. As far as the cost of school lunch is concerned, I cannot tell you how it would be possible to find out if there is no single sum, because in schools and municipalities this arrangement is different and consequently the actual cost of school lunch will also be different.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U133	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U134	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I'll come back to the last question. I will also say my opinion: this is a pretty good bill, there is nothing to talk about. But the state is giving big money to local governments. I have a question for you whether the state is in any way controlling the use of this money. I understand there's no place to place it anywhere else, but is there, let's say, people who go and check what kind of lunch it is, what quality it is, or is it all local government?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U135	In general, it is the schoolkeeper who is responsible for what is happening at a particular school. However, since the provision of education, including health protection and other requirements related to school food, is a matter of national importance, there are clear national supervision options at national level, both in the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act and in several regulations. When complaints about some quality of service have been received from some local government, some parent, the people involved in the supervision of the Ministry of Education have always responded to them, visited the situation and either made precepts or otherwise made efforts to ensure that the education service is, say, compliant with national standards and all requirements.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U136	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U137	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. I'm sure there's a lot of people here today, following the round of our questions and answers, the impression that the country really doesn't have any idea how much school food could cost, and 78 cents is, let's say, such a hard average. In fact, for about ten years, both the Cities Association and the Association of Rural Governments have always expressed their opinion on the basis of their members' calculations, and on this basis they have proposed. This cost was about EUR, now it has already risen to almost EUR 1.5. They have pointed out that it costs so much in these and these regions. Why has the Ministry, at least in its claims, not relied on local authorities' calculations?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U138	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! Minister, thank you very much. The Committee on Culture discussed the draft Act amending § 42 of the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act 689 at its meeting on 15 September. Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Education and Science, gave a fairly similar overview of the objectives of the draft as was the case today. In the Commission, like here today, there were the most questions about the cost of school lunch. Everyone supported the content and purpose of the draft in a consensual way. However, there was concern about how local authorities, the state and private structures should be fed by school children with 78 cents. The members of the Committee on Culture also had concerns that the draft, which allocates 78 cents in support, is not in line with the regulation of the Minister for Social Affairs, which quite strictly prescribes what school food should be and what percentage of nutrients should be included in the daily norm. After an hour and a half of discussion, the Committee on Culture unanimously decided that the first reading should be concluded. We have decided to propose that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 8 October. This too was a consensual decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U139	Any questions for the waitress? It's all clear, there are no questions. Thank you, Mailis Reps! I'm opening negotiations. Please, Lauri Luik, on behalf of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U140	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Compensating school lunch costs for upper secondary school students will certainly have a positive impact on the health of our young people. Proper nutrition is part of a healthy lifestyle alongside active physical activity and rest. At least once a day, you should eat hot food to stay healthy. Unfortunately, we have families where school lunch can be the only warm food a young person has in a day. School food may help and guide young people whose menu mainly consists of energy drinks and potato chips. It is also, of course, an additional financial support for those in need, being a positive message to the most economically sensitive families in particular. It is true, however, that in the long term any additional payments could be guided by a need-based approach. This means that priority should be given to those who actually need support. In this way, we can help those in need even more. We have expanded our school lunch support step by step. In 2002, we introduced a school lunch allowance of 1/4. until grade 1, 2006, until grade 9 and also in upper secondary vocational education. From next year it will be paid until the end of upper secondary school. This draft concerns about 22500 young people from around 20,000 households and 94 municipalities. The extension of the school lunch grant represents an additional EUR 3 million for state support. In addition, this is a positive message for local authorities who have so far supported 100% of their school lunch in upper secondary school. The cost of these municipalities will hopefully be reduced. When I conclude, compensating for the school lunch costs of upper secondary school students will certainly have a positive impact on young people's health, their eating habits, as well as supporting economically more sensitive families as well as local authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U141	Thank you very much. Please, Inara Luigas, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U142	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The President of the Republic of Estonia invited the Estonian people to make Estonia a hundredth anniversary order in the speech of Independence Day last year. Many were enthusiastic about this appeal, and of course they accepted it. But before we fix the country, we need to know and see where the country is actually stranded. In the light of recent events, we can see that the Estonian state has no proper border, so much needs to be done to clean up the state border. The national border is the one that we see, but many things that need to be repaired do not see. We can't see the empty belly of children because it just doesn't look like it. The Social Democrats have initiated many good legislative proposals in this Chamber of the Riigikogu and, together with coalition partners and often with the opposition, have adopted very important laws. They significantly improve children's living conditions and the situation. For example, under the leadership of social democrats, child benefits will rise to EUR 45 next year. If the draft we are debating today is adopted as a law, the situation of all children studying at upper secondary school will be significantly improved. We all know that upper secondary school is a beautiful period of youth, both girls and boys have just grown out of middle school kidhood. One and the other wants to be more fashionable than the other, trying to find their style and determining not only the hairstyle, but also the match of sneakers with the sweatshirt, a beautiful mobile phone, etc. They just want to be pretty. However, when opportunities are scarce and money is not available, it is often taken at the expense of food. When the hair looks pretty, you don't look hungry. In many families, there is no money for hairstyles or food. It is quite natural that in order to organise the country, the state must also help those who are struggling to cope. The state must secure warm food for those who cannot buy it themselves. A young and evolving organism needs a warm meal, and a school lunch supported by the state is the only warm food a day for many children. A number of studies have been carried out in Estonia and in many other European countries on the importance and necessity of school food. The objectives depend on the standard of living of the country. In countries with low standard of living, school meals are the main objective of reducing the hunger and malnutrition of low-nourished pupils, while in countries with higher standards of living, school lunch is an educational objective, as school lunch is an example of a healthy diet. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U143	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U144	Thank you. Please, on behalf of the Central Party Group of Mailis Reps. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U145	School food not only fills the stomach but is important for shaping children's social and educational beliefs from first to secondary school. We all know that people's eating habits are laid in their childhood. Thus, inadequate or wrong eating in childhood has an effect on health for the rest of your life. School food guarantees children's ability to learn, but even more importantly, good and healthy food guarantees the ability to cope with stress factors. Good food provides good memory and is closely associated with behavior and self-control. Good food ensures resistance to disease and gives good looks. All European countries recognise the important role of school food in children's health, development and learning outcomes. A study by the Joint Research Centre of the European Commission identified Member States' food strategies in 2014. The study pointed out that all Member States have guidelines for school food, although they differ from one country to another. However, the common objectives are: to improve the diet of children, to teach healthy diets and to create a healthy diet, to reduce and avoid child obesity. It is good that school food has become an important part of school life. In many schools where chefs have worked hard on the menu, school food has become very popular. There is a lot of talk about cooking, and on a number of occasions the child makes his or her choice of occupation. We hope that by eating a school lunch together and recognising its importance, young people will not grow into sluggish or comfortable citizens. Of course, many questions have been raised by the small amount of school food. But we all know that the rising consumer price index always walks one step ahead of us and reduces it to the amount of food that cooks can get for this amount. If we have decided that upper secondary school students will receive free school meals, then the next step is to argue about the amount of money that should go to compensate students for the cost of school meals. Finally, I wish that high school should include not only fine classes but also enjoyable meal breaks when you can read delicious menus from the canteen wall, and continue with those who enter the school canteens who joyfully cry out: 'Continue! '. Let us, however, have the will and the wisdom to make small but very important decisions and steps in this Parliament, because the Estonian state will gradually be in order when making such decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U146	Thank you. Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U147	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. The state's support for school lunch is 78 cents and many municipalities pay for it. But what will be the situation in state secondary schools? Does the Ministry of Education hope that local authorities will also pay subsidies in state secondary schools? If that is what you hope for, what is the basis of that hope? Is it thought that the upper secondary school will find this money with other resources, or is it directly calling for the missing part to be paid by parents? What kind of solution does the Ministry of Education see here?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U148	That is a very relevant question. This is the subject we are discussing at the Ministry. In the case of state secondary schools, we are not talking about school lunch grant, as they are directly managed by the Ministry of Education and this logic is certainly slightly different. But here it is the same characteristic that I wouldn't call it a problem, that in different state secondary schools there are also differences in the cost of school lunches. We have not yet finally agreed on what this procedure will be like in state secondary schools since January. I hope that within a few weeks, perhaps even when this bill reaches second reading, it will be possible to pass the vision of the Ministry of Education on to the Committee on Culture and then to the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U149	Please, Paul-Eerik Rummo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U150	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, I came back here as a representative of the group and I can now also say my slightly more critical thoughts on this very fine draft. Article 42 of the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act has been repeated both during the working hours of the Riigikogu and during previous Riigikogu formations. An interesting symbol is that the current Riigikogu started its work with bill No 1, which was the basis for the discussion of school meals and kindergarten catering opportunities under the leadership of the Committee on Culture. At the time, the Riigikogu found that the bill is worth all the further work, but it looks forward to these times when the possibilities of the state budget allow it. If we look at this bill now, we can see that it is three million euros, which is still a very small amount, given the other amounts of the state budget, although in essence the change is huge. There are several basic steps in the provision of "free school meals" in upper secondary schools. Almost ten years ago, the state made a promise to all levels of school. This was done by another coalition, but it is not important for school students, it was important that we promised to start catering for upper secondary school students as soon as possible. Why, then, did we choose to go to vocational school? This was an interim phase in order to strengthen support for socially disadvantaged families. The Ministry of Education was quite aware of the figures at the time, as was now. Certainly, today's Minister was quite a moving talk that he did not have information, in fact, but a polite excuse that the coalition did not agree otherwise. In fact, data at that time showed very clearly that there were more students in vocational schools who desperately needed free, warm food. The year-on-year postponement of the school lunch allowance for upper secondary school students was only a matter of formalisation at that time. Other coalitions came with other priorities. I am deeply grateful to all ministers that, despite crocodiles and scissors, free school food has survived. This is certainly mainly because it has justified itself. Ten years ago, we were arguing about whether free school food would benefit everyone. Today, too, Mr Luik raised the question of whether it should be accessible only to those who need it most, or to everyone. Let me confirm once again that free school food is essential for everyone. In this case, it will certainly be possible to offer it for a smaller amount, and school caterers will be able to offer larger portions to those students who need it more when the number of children is higher. After all, it is no secret that in many schools, school meals provide additional meals for many children, such as in the morning or a loaf of bread. The previous speaker referred to a change in school culture when the canteen is open to everyone, not just to those who need it. This may be the biggest change. For the last five years, student self-governments have been calling on the Riigikogu every year to introduce free school food also in upper secondary school. Kids have had free school meals in middle school, but when they get to high school, it really doesn't make sense why they can't get it anymore. So, in summarizing it can be said that the aim of this bill to move free school food to upper secondary school is a breaking and very important change and certainly a very big victory for all of us. I now come to the content of this support. 78 cents is a sum based on calculations 10 years ago. We take out the source of the cost of a school lunch, i.e. food costs. The extra cost of €8.5 million, which slightly increased due to the number of children, was calculated with the precision of the local government, included the Ministry of Social Affairs and health experts, and indeed covered expenditure on food at that time. Food prices have now increased by 23% since 2010 alone. 2010 alone! Compared to ten years ago, this increase has been more than a third. It is clear that local authorities or parents must pay for this difference. Unfortunately, even food expenditure is no longer covered by the existing amount. Why is this important? We will look at the experience of vocational schools, which also include young men and beautiful girls and women studying. This amount of calorie or the amount of nutrients these students need is comparable to those needed at the age of the upper secondary school student because they are in the same age group. In vocational schools, it has become clear from experience over a number of years that it cannot be much less than the euro, it is not possible to organise catering. This is possible in vocational schools because they have long periods of internship that we ourselves have provided for in law. Only as a result will it be possible to comply with Regulation No 8 of the Minister of Social Affairs of 2008 entitled "Health Protection Requirements for Catering in Pre-school Children's Institutions and Schools'. Vocational schools usually have arrangements to make it possible to collect points on an electronic card so that sometimes you can eat a little more than you can eat for the euro. We need to agree today on what is similar to the promises we made ten years ago. As Minister Ossinovski said, who, tomorrow or the day after the elections, is the minister, this is shown by the time, but it is important to agree in the Riigikogu that, yes, we extend this possibility and now all students receive free school meals. There are still questions and debates with kindergartens. But 78 cents is too small, it needs to be increased. Is this new amount, at the request of the euro or the EMOVL and the Cities Association, 1.5 euros, as shown by the talks on the next state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U151	Thank you. Firstly, I will now respond to the previous questioner's comment that this draft has been so stretched out. I certainly haven't dragged it down. This bill reached the government about a month after I was appointed and has also been in Riigikogu proceedings since June. With regard to previous proposals on this issue, it is clear that the Social Democrats have also stood up for them on several occasions. When it comes to the cost of school lunch, as I referred to earlier, we do not currently have a full overview of the actual cost of school lunch by schoolkeepers. They are remarkably different. The prices in Tallinn amount to €1.3 to €1.4, in some places outside Tallinn they are much lower. In vocational schools, the system is generally structured in such a way that EUR 0.78 must and will be managed. There's a little bit of specifics about how a school lunch is served. But I'm sure that price is different. This depends on how the local government, the school manager or a specific school have decided to ensure a school lunch: either there is a kitchen with the service provider on the spot or there is a kitchen without the service provider on the spot or all the food is bought in from the outside. The possibilities are diverse. Unfortunately, we do not have a full picture of the average cost.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U152	Thank you. Please, Urbo Vaarmann!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U153	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Have you discussed that this problem actually begins much earlier, perhaps in kindergarten? In the near future, can we get at least one meal free in kindergarten? When can we expect to move in that direction?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U154	Thank you for your question. This requires a slightly more fundamental change. On the basis of the pre-school financing model, the pre-school institution is currently known to be fully funded by the local government. This concerns teachers' salaries, teaching activities, education infrastructure as well as all other costs. If it is ever decided that the state should be more responsible for the functioning of pre-school institutions, this is certainly one of the topics to be discussed. In the case of kindergartens, we must bear in mind that there are mostly more meals there than there are at school, and that means additional costs. At present, the topic of pre-school children's institution is being discussed widely both in the Riigikogu and in the Ministry. If there is ever such a political decision that the state will finance all or part of the pre-school institutions, that is certainly one issue to be discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U155	Thank you. Please, Lauri Laasi! Lauri Laas is not in the hall. Then there's the next questioner, Erki Arrow. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U156	Thank you. Dear Minister, With this bill, the state supports a school lunch of 78 euro cent gymnasts. But if the local government doesn't want to guarantee the high school lunch to the gymnasts, it would be better to say that it can't, because obviously 78 cents is too small for the school lunch, what then? Do these local authorities not comply with the law if they are unable to offer the gymnasts lunch?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U157	Thank you. As with other aspects of financing general education, the system in force in Estonia is also based here. Of course, we can discuss whether this is the most sensible system. The State grants support to the local government and the municipality organises the provision of the service in the manner it considers appropriate. In most places, the local government pays more and the students receive free lunch, but there are also places where they do not pay enough or do not pay at all. Unfortunately, there are still local authorities, where even the lunch of primary school pupils is not free for parents. It is up to the local community to decide what policy decisions are made and where local tax revenues are spent, whether school lunch is one of the priorities or whether priorities are different. The state guarantees the support and the local government decides on the details of the service.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U158	Please, Mikhail Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U159	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I understand from your answers that you believe that 78 euro cents is a very small amount. So when does the Ministry plan to increase that amount? Is this happening in the near future?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U160	Thank you. As I said, it depends in absolute terms on the state's financial resources. This year, we have considered it possible to provide additional support for school children's lunch with three million euros, for which it is possible to provide school lunch support for upper secondary school students as well. Perhaps the Riigikogu will find additional money to increase the allowance for school lunch next year. This issue has certainly been under discussion for a long time. Hopefully, this amount will be adjusted upwards in the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U161	Thank you. Please, Paul-Eerik Rummo, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U162	Thank you. Mr. Minister! You mentioned in your report that about half of the gymnastics do not eat lunch at school, and some of them are not possible for economic reasons, but some do not eat lunch because they do not want it. On what basis has the total public contribution been calculated? Is the total number of gymnasts taken into account? If all upper secondary schools are included, including those who do not want to eat lunch at school, who will decide to use the money, what is left?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U163	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The Commission's proposal is that the first reading of draft 689 should be completed. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of 689 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 8 October. Today's agenda is exhausted. I wish everyone a nice day. I'll see you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 15.54 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U164	It is true that this issue has been on the table every year during the negotiations on the terms and amounts of the Local Government Support Fund, and so has this year. However, I must say that the minutes of these negotiations, as set out in the annex to the national budget that has been handed over to you today, say on this particular issue that no agreement was reached with the local authorities on this matter. I referred to the fact that I do not in any way question the competence of local authorities to say how much a school lunch costs in a particular municipality, but the arrangements for ensuring school lunch vary from place to place, some of them being, say, more cost-effective, others are better quality. I think that making a choice between different options to ensure that a school lunch is offered at a particular school should be the responsibility of the local government. This is where the local community can decide in what way and to what extent the local government or anyone else will pay for it and how it will be organised in concrete terms. I certainly have not contested that there should be an increase in school lunch support in the future, but I have to admit that despite efforts, a significant increase in school lunch support over the next year, according to the government, is beyond our means. This does not mean that this issue cannot be brought back next year. Hopefully, then we can find a solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U165	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U166	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Another thing remained a little unclear to some in the round of questions and answers. You stressed on several occasions that, despite your faith in a school of convergence, everything is up to the local government. In fact, it is a dedicated allocation and, according to financial logic, it can only be used for school food. Let this simply be said as a remark. We could look in history for a second. A few years ago, when free school food, like Finland, was finally applied in Estonia, it was preceded by lengthy disputes as to whether it should be free food for all, or whether it should be based on necessity. There was quite a change in organisation in school canteens after the introduction of free food. Does the Ministry of Education have any idea what the provision of free food in upper secondary school might mean and how much restructuring is needed in school canteens?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U167	Thank you. Firstly, I fully agree with your first remark and I apologise if I somehow had the impression that school lunch grant could be spent on anything else. No, you can't. You asked a very good question. I have spoken to several schools and I know that neither the school management nor the local authorities have seen this issue as problematic, especially because gymnastics, whose school days largely last until 3 or 4 in the afternoon, can eat lunch at a slightly later time than the rest of the students who start eating lunch from 10:00 in the morning. Thus, it is unlikely to pose a major problem in most schools. At the moment, we still need some organizational work to be done in state secondary schools, because when they were established, this support was not planned in this way. The state secondary schools usually have cafeteria-based catering establishments where there is no large dining hall. But I believe that we will be able to resolve this problem in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U168	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U169	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, what is your position? Six months pass and a draft budget for 2016 is already needed. Either way, this line will also be discussed. One option is to rely on the amount that the Ministry of Finance will give you, and to distribute that amount, there is nothing more to be done. Or you could figure out what the price of lunch is in six months, and then you could come up with a new amount from that? What's your position?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U170	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Riigikogu elections will take place on 1 March 2015. When the new composition of the Riigikogu begins its work, the budget strategy of the state will also be established for the following years, where such an amount as the significant increase in the allowance rate for school lunch should be reflected. If, for example, you are a member of the next government, it would certainly be appropriate for you already in the spring to strive for this amount to be included in the country's budget strategy. If anyone else is in the government, he could think the same way.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U171	Thank you. Please, Peep Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U172	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! Have such estimates been made in the Ministry, how much more must be paid in state secondary schools to the daily rates set by this draft and how much additional money must be used to improve the facilities of canteens so that everyone can eat school lunch? Are such figures known?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U173	Thank you. In reply to Mr Allik's question, I answered that by preventing your question. But I'd be happy to answer again. We have not agreed on a precise scheme in the Ministry because state secondary schools, which currently have about 1,500 upper secondary schools, are directly under the Ministry of Education, so we do not grant them school lunch grants, but cover their school lunch costs. How exactly to organise this is being actively analysed by the Ministry and, hopefully, within a few weeks, we will have a clear picture. Then I will certainly present this information to the Committee on Culture, through which, I hope, Mr Peep Aru will also find out.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-24_U174	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much, Minister Jevgeni Ossinovski. I would like to ask for a co-report from Mailis Reps, Member of the Cultural Committee of the Chair!
