ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Question Time. Requesting presence check! 41 members of the Riigikogu registered to participate in Question Time. The members of the government who participate in Question Time are the Minister of Defence, Sven Mikser, the Prime Minister, Anne Sulling, Minister of Foreign Trade and Entrepreneurship, and Hanno Pevkur, Minister of the Interior. Yesterday, nine members of the Riigikogu expressed their wish to ask the question; the Bureau decided unanimously to give two additional questions. So we're gonna be really busy.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U2	The first questioner is Urmas Reinsalu and the question is the Prime Minister's role for Defence Minister Sven Mikser. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U3	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of Defense! The IRL has a clear plan to implement the tax reform of low-paid people to improve the livelihood of those who work hard every day for low incomes. There are over 200,000 people in Estonia who receive a salary of 500 euros or less. Our aim is for the income of low-paid people below EUR 500 to be tax-free. This will improve people's actual livelihoods, including those of workers, pensioners and small businesses. In the previous Question Time, Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, as chairman of the Reform Party, said that this is not worth doing, because a measure that improves people's livelihoods and leaves people with more money is too difficult. What is the position of the Social Democratic Party on tax reform of low-paid people?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U4	Thank you. To start from the beginning, I would like to say right away that the social democrats' solution to the problem of coping with low-paid people is based on the principle that their income should be increased and, therefore, it makes sense to move forward faster than before by raising the minimum wage. As far as taxation of income is concerned, the Social Democrats, of course, as well as the IRL, support progressive taxation of individual income. However, I am afraid that a specific solution is not the best one. I do not think, like the Prime Minister, that this is too complicated. What you are proposing is actually a very simple system where income ranges are taxed at different rates. Income from zero to EUR 500 would be taxed at zero, then income from EUR 500 to EUR 846 would be taxed at a rate of 40% and income from a range of over EUR 846 at a rate of 20%. Such a scheme, where the so-called low income range is at the lowest rate, then there is one income range that has been taxed at a much higher rate and then the tax rate falls again, is unconventional. The idea of social democrats is basically based on the same noble goal of reducing the tax burden on people who earn less. But we believe that income ranges, i.e. tax rates, should move progressively upwards. Our proposal is to tax this proportion of income at a rate higher than 20%, which exceeds EUR 1600 per month.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U5	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U6	Thank you. That is the big difference between the Socialists and the IRL proposal. We do not support higher taxation of higher incomes. Our clear view is that the country has an effective, feasible and immediately implemented very clearly targeted measure to improve people's livelihoods. For people on low incomes who work from morning to night, we have a real solution to implement. The IRL tax exemption for low-wage earners would leave a net monthly income of EUR 70 to a person earning EUR 500. The government has provided for a general increase of EUR 10 in the country's budget strategy for the following year in the tax-free minimum. I have a specific question for you. Is the government's plan to raise the tax-free minimum by EUR 10 per year not an insufficient package of measures to actually improve the livelihood of low-wage earners?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U7	Thank you. When the government put together the draft state budget for next year, of course our aim was to alleviate the situation of the most difficult people to cope with. We looked at the picture responsibly. After all, we know that the previous government, which also included IRL, decided already in 2011, to reduce the overall income tax rate from 1 January next year, which will take about 70 million euros off the revenue side of the state budget. If we could also count on this money in the revenue of the state budget, it would certainly make it possible to further improve the situation of people and families with less well-insured, poorer livelihoods. As regards further measures, i.e. beyond 2016, we certainly agree that taxation must take into account people's ability to pay taxes. The state needs not only to look at how much someone is taxed, but also to take serious account of how much people will have to pay after they have paid their taxes. So the objective of reducing the tax burden on the less-serving, low-paid people is very noble. At the same time, it has been estimated that the measure you have proposed would cost the state €120 to €140 million because of lower revenues. The Ministry of Finance has offered a significantly higher number, which I think is a little overrated. However, when we make promises during the election campaign, we also need to think about their feasibility and show very clearly the sources of cover, we can analyse in much more detail how much and which groups of income tax can actually be reduced. But in the sense of this principle that people with lower incomes should pay lower taxes to the state budget, lower taxes, I agree with you. This is what is called progressive taxation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U8	Urmas Reinsalu, please have another supplementary question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U9	The Prime Minister had this view last week that the tax reform of the low-paid cannot be carried out, because it is difficult for officials to get a new computer program; officials must start writing papers. Your assessment is that we should move in this direction, but after the elections, in the future, we need to start analysing what to do and how to do it. My message is that the IRL has prepared these things. Together with Estonia's most capable tax experts, we have done analysis, planned a measure and even prepared a draft law. It is affordable for the state, it has sources of cover, it is possible to do so and it will benefit 330000 Estonian people who are currently paid less than 850 euros per month, including 70,000 working pensioners and nearly 30000 self-employed persons. I have a specific question: do you consider that the idea of tax reform for people with low pay is excluded for the Social Democratic Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U10	The establishment of a progressive model of taxation of individual income in Estonia is, of course, acceptable to social democrats. Now, as far as the sources of cover are concerned, the sources of cover you have proposed have not been concrete enough or convincing enough. I'm sure the government needs to take a critical look at these things. If you are talking about what can be done now and what needs further analysis, for example, in order to improve the livelihood of families with children, this government, despite a relatively short period of work, was able to take concrete steps, while the government that worked with you for more than three years took a long time, but could not do much. When we are talking, for example, about ferry connections between the continent and the islands, the swift and effective decisions of the current government were preceded by a long preparatory work by the previous government, which unfortunately did not result in equally clear unambiguous decisions and their execution. So I believe that the voter knows who he needs to be competent and able to make decisions and carry them out.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U11	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U12	Thank you. Honourable performer! We have talked a lot about tax reform and tax redistribution, wasted terrible energy on it, but still not much change has been made. Doesn't it seem to you, Mr Secretary of Defense in his duties as Prime Minister, that perhaps we should spend this energy on a much more important question of how to increase the revenue side of our budget? The current income of the state is not very high for Estonia, and I think we would have earned much higher incomes. We're now distributing this little money that no one really wins from redistribution. The Estonian state should think about how to bring more money in the way the government teaches families to earn more so that the family can live better.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U13	Thank you. Certainly, when planning state resources and planning state activities, we need to look at both the cost side and the revenue side. There are many unfortunate examples, unfortunately also from Europe, which prove to us that it is relatively easy to spend ourselves poor in a short time. However, it would, of course, be completely wrong to conclude that the country can save itself rich in a short time. It seems to me that this logical misconstruction has also spread among Estonian thinkers and politicians at times. I agree that the state must certainly focus its actions on maximising future revenues. And I am absolutely convinced that the most important input in any economic activity that produces this much-spoken GDP, the national product, is human resources, man. I have said that investments and jobs will certainly not come where people have already left. Therefore, good regional policy is an essential part of economic policy and growth. Equally important, perhaps even more important, is a good education policy, including all that concerning refresher and retraining. People working in sectors of the economy, whose future prospects are not particularly good, should not wait for notice of redundancy, but also receive a new qualification with the support of the state and improve their qualifications before becoming unemployed. This is certainly of the utmost importance also in order to have revenue in the budget at the expense of making the necessary investments and expenditure.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U14	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U15	Thank you, Mr President. Good Secretary of Defense Sven Mikser in the role of Prime Minister! In recent days, news has come about the increased activity of Russian military aircraft over the Baltic Sea, and news of airline violations has also come fresh. How safe are we? What is Estonia going to do?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U16	Thank you. I would like to begin by thanking Mr Reinsalu, who has generously formulated his question on 'Politicals', which allows us to ask about taxes, their growth, the revenue side of the budget and indeed defence policy issues. Indeed, the activity of the armed forces of the Russian Federation, including the air force, has been significant in the Baltic Sea region in recent weeks. We have, among other things, fixed flights for strategic bombing aircraft, which are certainly not normal or everyday in our region. I think that such manoeuvres are aggressive and unnecessary, they are provocative and, of course, Estonia behaves in this regard. Once we have detected a breach of the airline, we will also present a regular note to the Russian Federation. In the case of flights within the international corridor, we shall, if necessary, identify these means of flight visually. It is true that NATO's allies in the framework of Baltic air security as well as other countries in the region have made significant numbers of detection flights in recent weeks to identify such flights. When I answer the other side of the question, I say that the security situation in our region and in Europe at large over the last year has really become much more tense. At the same time, our own investments in the protection of our country, as well as very good and effective cooperation with our NATO allies and regional partners, have made Estonia's security much more secure. So despite the tightening of the international situation, I believe that the people of Estonia can, can and should feel safe now.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U17	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U18	The next questioner is Priit Toobal and the question is for the Minister of the Interior, Hanno Pevkur. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Yesterday was World Anti-Corruption Day, and the Deputy Director General and Minister of Justice expressed their views on this issue. I also read your comments. In the case of officials, one measure to prevent corruption is a declaration of interest, a declaration of economic interest with an earlier name. How do you assess whether compliance with such declarations will help to avoid the risk of corruption and what if the officials who have this responsibility do not write everything down the way it is to be done? In that case, it's like there's no point in filling out a declaration.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U20	Thank you. This question should be asked first and foremost by the Minister of Justice. But I'm happy to talk about my thoughts. There are two objectives to declare interests. The first objective, of course, is for the person who has an obligation to declare interests to do so, so that his or her interests are reflected and possible decisions are transparent and clear. The second objective is to achieve a preventive objective, just as a person declares something, he or she commits himself or herself that his or her declaration is correct. If, in the course of a later inspection or for any other reason, it appears that false statements have been made or that nothing has been indicated, the person must explain why he has done so. Of course, this means that there has been a mistake in the anti-corruption law against the obligation to declare its interests. The obligation is clearly enshrined in the law. So there is nothing else to say but the fact that it is to be declared and the declaration of interests has two objectives.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U21	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! I fully agree with you, and I will continue with my question of compliance with the declaration of interest and the commitments that have been made there. The law clearly states that all assets, including loans, must be recorded. This is the case in the current law, and this was also the case in 2009, for example. Do you consider that the obligation to record all assets also applies to cash debts, or does it only concern transactions made through a bank?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U23	Thank you. This also applies to commitments in cash. Regardless of the form in which the obligation has been taken, I assume that it is also fixed in writing in order to protect the interests of the creditor or creditors. Of course, if one person who is obliged to declare his or her interests is committed to other persons, they must all be declared, irrespective of whether it is cash or some other asset liability. This is very clear from both the anti-corruption law and the form of the declaration of interests. And if that is not enough for anyone, the law's explanatory statement and comments can also be made.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U24	Priit Toobal, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U25	Thank you. I'll take it from here. As you rightly pointed out, there is an obligation in the law that all property obligations should be recorded, including cash commitments. But what happens if it is deliberately or maliciously not done, and also in the course of later checks, if it is remembered or it has been recalled that it has not been repaired? What is the penalty for missing an important asset liability in the declaration, including, for example, cash credit? What is the penalty now and what, for example, for the unsubscribed commitment in 2009?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U26	Thank you. We should together undertake an anti-corruption law with the Penal Code. But right now, given that there's two minutes to answer, I don't think I can do that. The non-compliance with the obligation to declare interests was in 2009 and is currently sanctioned, so the penalty is. You just have to check what the penalty is. I believe that after Question Time is over, we can review together, no problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U27	Erki Arrow!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! You mentioned declaring interests as a preventive measure, which is largely correct. Has it been discussed that the Tax and Customs Board and border guards could or should comply with declarations of financial interests? Since some people are exposed to money because of their work, it is reasonable, in a preventive way, that they too will do so. Although, of course, as the Director General of the Tax and Customs Board has said, they have their own internal control. But, in the light of your words, I ask whether such a debate has been held.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U29	Thank you. This was the debate when a new anti-corruption law was being prepared, as was the preparation for the transition to a new electronic form. The question was who are the officials who have the obligation to make a declaration of financial interests. It was clear that the law introduced a relatively narrow circle and, moreover, gave the directors of the administration the right to define who would have to submit a declaration of economic interests with the old name, i.e. the current declaration of interests. So, in my opinion, it is quite reasonable and appropriate for Estonia that a circle of certain persons is announced at the level of the law, and that the rest of them are given discretion to the leaders of the authorities, and they decide who must or does not have to submit a declaration. This does not mean, however, that there could not yet be additional internal acts to control the interests of the administration. They do not necessarily have to be in the form of a declaration of interest, but may also be in the form of a declaration of interest. There may also be some other method, or more specifically, to say that, for example, wages do not need to be declared, but their property obligations must be recorded and sufficient. It makes perfect sense to give flexibility, but the law must say who has an obligation and what must be fulfilled in a compulsory form.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U30	Thomas Tõniste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U31	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! The declaration of interest shall include loans as well as mortgages secured by the loan. There are often situations where the loan is no longer available, but the mortgage is deliberately left behind, because if it is ever necessary to take out the loan, it can be used so that it does not have to pay state fees, etc. But journalists often do not understand that a mortgage is not a loan and reflect the credit obligations of a member of the Riigikogu or someone else, adding up a loan and a mortgage. Such a method, of course, gives a totally incorrect amount, which may be in some cases two or three times higher than the actual loan obligation. Has there been any plan to clarify this? Then some people should not always explain that they do not actually have such a high level of debt.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U32	Thank you. That question remains to be answered by the Minister of Justice. They are carrying an anti-corruption strategy, as well as a declaration of interests. According to my senses, I can only say so much that if someone does not understand what is written and what is written, it does not make what is required meaningless. If there is a desire to fix and find out mortgages when declaring interests, then it makes sense because the balance of the loan is also recorded in the declaration. The fact that no one understands the difference between a loan balance and a mortgage certainly does not make it unreasonable for control bodies to also look at the existence of mortgages.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U33	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U34	The next questioner is Aivar Kokk and the question is for Anne Sulling, Minister of Foreign Trade and Entrepreneurship. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U35	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! The dairy industry in the Baltic States and Finland has been in a very difficult situation since August. Indirect impacts have also gone further in Europe and the search for new markets is being carried out by most European countries. As a result, prices are also falling in most markets and it is not easy to find markets for dairy products. We know that there is no free trade agreement between Europe and America; New Zealand and Australia are themselves exporters; North Africa has very high tariffs. However, you have been actively selling dairy products outside Estonia for the last four months. How have you been?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U36	Indeed, we have been actively engaged in the search for new markets in cooperation with the Milk Union. We believe that at this stage we are in a situation where each producer has different products. Thus, there is also a different distribution channel for each product, as the users of the products are different. For example, cheese blocks are purchased by a different industry than the one that wants milk powder. We have now developed a very good cooperation with a large Asian conglomerate that operates on several Asian markets. The producers of our milk union produce all products that will be preserved for a long time. For example, AS Maag does only short-term products that cannot, unfortunately, be taken to distant markets. All those who produce products with a long shelf life negotiate details to market their products in Asia, so work is under way. At the moment, I think, there is the greatest potential for cheeses produced, for example, by the Saaremaa Dairy Industry and E-Pim. They are currently negotiating the packaging details.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U37	Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U38	Thank you. Given that we have arrived somewhere in the markets and are still discussing some of them, the question arises. When the Minister of Agriculture shouted with joy that it might be possible to open the door to Russian markets through Belarus too, you were very pessimistic and thought that this should not be done. For four months now, farmers have sold less than cost of milk. Wouldn't it be right to grab each straw and, at the same time, look for more distant markets?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U39	Unfortunately, Belarus is not a very good example and it is a good parallel to point out precisely in the sense that it is a straw that easily breaks. A few weeks ago, just about the same visit, there was news that Russia had realised that several European Union countries were transferring their goods to Russia through Belarus. On this basis, exports from Belarus to Russia were closed. Thus, such a tempting opportunity may be in the grey zone, i.e. it may seem attractive at first glance, but in the long run, it may be painful to retaliate. I'm not suggesting that. I have also spoken to our Minister for Agriculture, whose visit to Belarus was primarily due to talking about wider cooperation relations with this country, not to opening doors to dairy workers on the market there.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U40	Aivar Chef, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U41	Thank you. At present, there is a situation where pig farmers have been in a difficult situation for almost a year, dairy farmers over the last six months. But when I look at the state budget, I do not see very clear state support for agriculture until they reach a new market. At the same time, it is clear that entering the new market is very difficult and difficult, because not only in Estonia, but throughout Europe and also in the United States, there are producers who produce over and who do not have a market. Do you think that the country should not, however, provide support to farmers so that they can survive this difficult time before they find a new market?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U42	First of all, we need to look at the situation that, in fact, our dairy farmers, dairy producers, have all the contracts preserved, just the price has fallen. For example, when we compare prices to 40 euro cents of milk, and now so much has fallen that according to the latest data, milk is purchased with 23-24 cents. That's a pretty good price in the middle of a year. However, I see the possibility of going to new markets. Products can be realised and our industrialists have managed to move to new markets. Although prices are low, their European exports have been expanded, for example to the Netherlands, Italy and Germany. Of course, there is always a desire for higher prices, but this is the market situation at the moment. That is why we are working towards Asia, that there are slightly higher prices and can get a better price for our products.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U43	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U44	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. You have not taken any positive steps now, and the farmer has not yet felt the help of the government. I'm asking about Belarus. It is a public secret that our businessmen have been exporting their products through Belarus for a long time. But after our Minister of Agriculture went to Belarus and signed an agreement with Belarus with the media, Russia also stopped buying Belarusian produce. Was it wise to go there and make a deal?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U45	Thank you. As I have already mentioned, I understood that our Minister for Agriculture was there to negotiate wider agricultural cooperation, not just to take dairy workers there. Yes, as I said, it is unwise to pursue such a gray economy. It can be very painful to retaliate if we go back to the Russian market through the back door.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U46	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U47	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, good afternoon. About a few months ago, we talked to you in briefing on this subject and you promised that good news would arrive by November, and then we know which markets our companies will offer their products to. For some reason, however, during this month, only bad news was heard that China cannot be sold and can not be sold to Morocco for various reasons. I haven't heard any more positive news. Can you comment on that and what happened to the November deadline?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U48	I mentioned November for the reason that we had visits from this particular Asian market to potential buyers. They have already visited Estonia twice and have met our industrialists to make sure that we meet all the standards. Such processes do not work so quickly, as in a particular market the buyer is responsible for ensuring that food products are of high quality. They have to come and see for themselves. It all takes time. I can say that all the companies that are part of the dairy union know what the market is. They are all optimistic and work hard to reach final agreements.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U49	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U50	The next questioner is Eldar Efendiev and the question is for the Minister of the Interior, Hanno Pevkur. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U51	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, It is sad to ask about the future of Alexander's church during the Advent and Christmas season. But what to do, life brings us such gifts. The Committee on Culture has already discussed this situation in two sessions. There have also been several discussions with the Minister of Culture to understand exactly what the situation is. Last week, you also had good news from the government of the Republic plans to deal with the situation so as not to let Alexander's church building be sold. You said you were looking for solutions, too. Have you found any options and options?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U52	Thank you for your question. First of all, as an introduction, it is extremely regrettable that the financial and financial situation of the Narva Alexander Congregation has reached the stage where bankruptcy proceedings are already being discussed and bankruptcy proceedings have been filed. This is certainly not the best solution for the future of the congregation. If they are already fully involved in bankruptcy proceedings, it is clear that additional financial obligations will arise for the congregation and creditors' claims may be further damaged. As for the future fate of the Narva Alexander Congregation and the Grand Church, I hope and see that the Church Government of the EELC takes a very clear position and speaks face to face with creditors. As far as I know, yesterday was their first meeting. On Monday, we sat with representatives of the support group of Ida-Viru, the church government, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of the Interior and discussed the situation, as did the Committee on Culture. At this meeting there was Mr Mati Maana, a church government, and a representative of creditors. I hope that this meeting started in the search for final solutions. Yesterday, as I said, there was a first debate, and I believe that there will be another meeting and a solution will be found. Surely there is no solution if the church's assets are put to auction and only receive some money to satisfy creditors' claims.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U53	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U54	Thank you. Dear Minister, I also have a question about two cemeteries on the church's parish property list. What do you think the fate of these cemeteries is?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U55	Thank you. As far as I know, there have not been any bankruptcies of the congregation in Estonia. If the congregation encounters financial difficulties, especially if the congregation's property includes cemeteries or sacred houses, the combined effect of several different laws must be taken into account. First, of course, there is the law on churches and congregations, second, the Cemetery Act and third, the law on bankruptcy. If enforcement proceedings are reached, then the law on enforcement proceedings also comes into play. Thus, the number of legal acts to be taken into account in the bankruptcy of one congregation is very high. I would therefore prefer bankruptcy proceedings to stop and creditors and the congregation to find a solution instead, so that the congregation can continue to work and the church and cemeteries remain open. There is also a special provision for cemeteries. According to memory, under the Cemetery Act, the cemetery can be owned either by the state or by the municipality, and there are no other options. But as I said, there is also the law of bankruptcy and the law of enforcement. There will be a complicated procedure, but I very much hope that, in order to rule out a purely long legal dispute during the bankruptcy process, the congregation and creditors will find an agreement in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U56	Eldar Efendiev, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U57	Thank you. Dear Minister, In our time, along with the former Minister of Culture Signe Kivi, we formed Alexander's Church Foundation to restore Alexander's church building with the participation of the state. It is now clear that the decision at the time was correct and that the monument is more or less in good shape. Do you think it would be necessary to give other functions to the Foundation in the light of current events, thus helping to remedy or resolve the situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U58	Thank you. The creation of a separate foundation has certainly contributed to the renovation of the church, even if through the foundation the state has guaranteed annual repayments of the loan. We can take different opinions about the condition of the church. I'm sure it's canned, the tower section's in pretty good shape, open to people, and nice. Most of the church's internal work remains to be done. It is certainly a very large investment for the church to get the fashion and appearance we expect. As far as the further administration of the church is concerned, and if this could be done by a foundation ......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... But these are all initial speculations. I still hope that the congregation and the creditors will agree. If it is necessary for the state to sit a little bit at the so-called centre, both the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of the Interior are prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U59	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! I'm glad you took part in our team's work on Monday. I am even better pleased about what you said earlier that the creditors and the church government actually met at a table. You guys left early. We wanted to ask you if you might have any good tips or advice for us, the ambassadors in this area, to help us not to have this church in the possession of unwanted persons.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U61	Thank you. Good advice is actually very simple. As I said, as far as I know yesterday, the church government and the creditors discussed this subject. Of course, one meeting has not yet been resolved. But the suggestion can be this: positive pressure must be maintained so that creditors and debtors can find an agreement between them. No member of the Riigikogu, nor any member of the government, I believe that the residents of Narva city will also win if bankruptcy proceedings continue and this leads to the stage that the assets will be realised. In any case, it is more reasonable to find solutions without having to discuss whether the church building should be sold to cover debts during bankruptcy proceedings.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U62	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U63	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. There is real reason to talk about the future of the Narva Church, not everything is clear. Let us start by saying that there is no consensus among the members of the government, one minister says that the state could buy, but another, the Minister of Culture, says that this cannot be done. What do you think would be the right step for the future of this church?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U64	Thank you. I see as the right step that the Estonian Evangelical Lutheran Church takes clear responsibility here, the church government intervenes very clearly and helps one of its family members in this dispute. The church government itself has a role to play in the formation of these debts. He has given his consent to the administration of church property, such as the conclusion of a treaty on building rights between the congregation of Narva Aleksandr and the Treasury of the Church. So there are more than enough reasons why the church government should intervene in resolving this dispute. I see no reason that, at this stage, the Government of the Republic should become one of the direct parties to this dispute. Also at a meeting here in the Riigikogu building on Monday, the representative of the EELK church government gave an overview or a clear signal that the congregation has the money to take out the debt, and there is definitely a starting point for a compromise. From there, you can look at how an agreement with creditors can be reached, either the remaining debt will be deferred or some other solution will be found. In any case, I can see that the church government is holding a leading position in this matter. But, as I said, I am certainly prepared to participate in the settlement of the dispute in order to keep the church in public use.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U65	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U66	The next questioner is Peter Laurson, the question is for Home Secretary Hanno Pevkur. Please, Peter Laurson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U67	Thank you. Minister of the Interior! One of the objectives of the police reform was to increase the efficiency of the organisation and, above all, to increase the salaries of low-paid police officers, especially those who work on patrol and work hard outside. The police dissatisfaction has now increased rather because of the failure to achieve efficiency, the workload in many places has increased to a level that exceeds the human capacity and the number of crimes to be solved has increased. In this light, what has been the pay of a so - called grassroots policeman? Please state the specific figures compared to a year ago.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U68	Thank you. I'm sure your assessments are emotional. True, from 1 October, the membership of the Police and Border Guard Board was somewhat reduced, but this was one of the objectives of achieving the wage increase of the 'grassroots police officers', which you have used. The aim was, in particular, to achieve wage increases for the first time in police service. I can say one number right now. Today or tomorrow, I will send the new Police and Border Guard Board salary regulation to the Ministry of Finance for coordination, and I hope that we will receive feedback from the Ministry as soon as possible on the calculations that the Police and Border Guard Board has proposed. Then we can also publicly say the salaries of all the steps that the police will have in the future. At the moment, I can say that, if the current salary for a police officer coming to work is EUR 725, i.e. grade three pay, but the young policemen coming to the third stage who are graduating from the academy, it will be EUR 950 from 1 January 2015. Basically, the minimum wage for police officers working in police services is EUR 950.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U69	Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U70	Thank you. How many employees in the police system who, not considering overtime, receive a low salary of less than EUR 800?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U71	That is such a specific question that you could have put it in writing. As I said, I am now focusing on what the pay of police officers will be in the future and the pay of the police officer coming to work will rise from 725 to 950, or 225 euros. It's without overtime. Let's just admit it's a pretty good slope. To this end, the Police and Border Guard Board itself has made a great deal of effort. If the state can allocate extra money from the budget that you approve today to about 4.3 million and a little bit more, then the Police and Border Guard Board has found about the same amount of money as a result of their changes. So the Police and Border Guard Board has at its disposal an additional salary of EUR 9 million over the next year, which will be possible because the minimum wage will rise the most and then the higher levels will be slightly less. More specifically, we can say hopefully next week or the week after we have received coordination from the Ministry of Finance on the amounts of wages that we propose.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U72	Peter Laurson, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U73	It still seems that the reform has only led to an increase in the workload of police officers. If that is not the case, please tell me what else the efficiency of the police system has increased.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U74	Thank you. The efficiency of the police system is growing all the time. Marko Pomerants, Ken-Marti Vaher and all previous ministers together with the Police and Border Guard Board (early Police Department) have worked all the time to find new opportunities and solutions. The Riigikogu also contributes to this. There has been a change in the treatment of misdemeanours, video recording has been added, and I could still read the various changes that have been made to the legislation. The other side is, of course, what the Police and Border Guard Board has changed in its own organisation. For example, in order to reduce red tape and give faster decision-making powers to the departments, it has been granted more rights to station managers since 1 October. At the county level, decisions are made with greater weight, which makes the whole police system a little more flexible once again. Similarly, it is certainly that we are purchasing new vehicles and have provided the police with new equipment. Everything has been done to develop Estonian police so that people working in police and border guards can work with the best equipment and their work is sufficiently valued.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U75	Marko Pomerants, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U76	Thanks! I ask you not because my name was named, but because the election fight has begun. I happen to have already participated in a debate on peripheral security. At least two political parties have proposed to increase the number of municipal constables or the presence of the police. How could you say, specialist, just like you've gone into every area, price a promise like this in a situation where people are actually moving in the opposite direction, i.e. people are being pulled together to pay any wages to the existing ones? How real do you think that in the small municipalities of Estonia there will be a constable for every municipality in the next four years?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U77	Thank you. All kinds of decisions can always be made. In that sense, it is a question of choices. This road, which the police have chosen to serve people, is rather a functional road. This means that, in the past, while the constable's duties were much wider, the district police officer now focuses primarily on community work and prevention. If we want to have our constables in every jurisdiction, then this can be done as a political decision. But it also means that something is being taken away from somewhere else. Today, the Estonian state is served by 5,000 police officers and I do not see very many opportunities for us to increase this number exponentially. There are several reasons for this. First of all, it is certainly how many cadets we have at the National Defence Academy will end and how much retirement, which is the balance. And secondly, as you can see, in the last ten years, the police have suffered a natural decline. To stop it, the first and most important step was that, now that 280 people no longer work for the police, you can raise the salaries of the first and other stages. If we can value people's work, we have the hope that the number of police officers will not decrease. If the policeman stops working for the security company and doesn't become a builder, we'll be able to ensure service. It's all a matter of choice. Politically, all kinds of things can be allowed, but when people get into that house and act, the reality is a little different.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U78	Erki Arrow!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U79	Thank you. Good minister! You mentioned the increase in the salaries of first-level police officers, police officers and border guards. Of course, if there's a rise of about 200 euros in the first step, it's very high in percentage terms. Once again, the highest - ranking police officer raises his salary by a few or five percent, the sum of the increases is likely to be much higher. But that's not my question. You said that the minimum wage for police and border guards would be EUR 950 from 1 January next year. Let me ask you a very simple question. We have a Piusa cordon in Southeast Estonia. What are the salaries of the new year's border guards there?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U80	Thank you for your question. I'll take ten seconds to answer one last question. Since Priit Toobal has returned to the hall, I will also settle the old, so-called standing debt. The current Anti-Corruption Act provides for a maximum of 100 fine units for the intentionally incorrect submission of data, and the amount of one fine unit is currently EUR 4. So you can calculate from there. Coming to the question of the Piusa Kordoni, I say that the cadet's salary of a young graduate from the Border Guard College, who goes to the Police and Border Guard Board and goes to work in the cordon, is at least EUR 950. Of course, if there has been a longer period of service, there will be other grades of service and, as I said, we will confirm them next week or the next week. Then we will inform each border guard and district police officer of his current salary from 1 January, which he will receive at the beginning of February.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U81	Three minutes to the end of Question Time. Mikhail Korb can ask one question and Minister Sulling can also answer that question. Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U82	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I will continue on the same subject that we have had some time to talk to you about today. The first thing I want to remind you is that when we talked about the deadline for November, it was not about the exchange of information by then, but you said clearly that then we know where the production is going. The other part of the question is that listening to your answers gives you the feeling that the markets themselves are regulating the matter. It sounds like the usual liberal party representation talk just outside representatives are working, everything works. That raises the question of what your role is in this process. How do you see your role in increasing our sales abroad?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U83	I've been using my network to find potential buyers for our industrialists and help them get in touch. I have also assisted in the negotiations. It's been my role.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U84	That was the answer. Question Time is over. Thank you to the ministers.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U85	Honourable Riigikogu! Let's start the Wednesday hearing. Is there a desire to hand over drafts or even inquiries? There's a wish. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U86	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, There's an inquiry to hand over. Members of the Centre Party Group will submit an inquiry to Urve Palo, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, entitled 'The Threat of the Huvide Conflict'. On 3 October of this year, the Minister signed the documents for the establishment of the Rail Baltic Estonian holding company and the management board of this holding company was also formed. Unfortunately, no public competition was announced for the formation of the board. One of the tasks of the holding company is to prepare and carry out requests for financing, design, construction and other procurements, and its responsibilities include drawing up a business plan, so that all the funds of the European Union intended for the construction of a railway line will be transferred from this holding company. It is therefore crucial that its activities are transparent and verifiable from the start of the business. At present, however, the management of the company is rather subjective and opaque. This situation is made even more complicated by the fact that one of the major supporters of Minister Palo's party has expressed a wish to participate in the construction of his company Skinest Rail via Rail Baltic. Members of the Centre Party Group are very concerned about this situation, because all of this could have a negative impact on the entire Rail Baltic project. We therefore ask the Minister three questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U87	Thank you. No further inquiries or drafts are recommended. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have accepted an inquiry. If it complies with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu shall forward it to the addressee without delay. Ladies and gentlemen, please let's do a presence check. 85 members are registered and 16 members of the Riigikogu are missing. The agenda is to say that today's sixth item, the draft Act amending the Environmental Charges Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, will be presented on behalf of the initiators by the Minister of the Interior, Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U88	Now we will discuss the items on today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of draft law 718 on the amendment of the Code of Civil Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. Any requests? No calls, no negotiations. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote. We are preparing for the final vote. Since the draft requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu to be adopted, we will do the verification of presence again. 90 members of the Riigikogu were registered as present and 11 members of the Riigikogu are missing. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 718. Please take a stand and vote. 87 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The draft has therefore been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U89	The next item is the third reading of Bill 730 of the 2015 State Budget Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask for a presentation of the Chair's Chair, Rannar Vassilyev, Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U90	Ladies and gentlemen, I'll give you a brief overview of what's...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U91	Dear waitress, I'm sorry. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U92	I will give a brief overview of what has happened with the draft state budget law between second and third readings. The Commission prepared the third reading on 2, 4, 8 and 9 December. By the deadline for submitting amendments, 27 November, the political groups of the Riigikogu tabled 16 amendments to the draft text. Most of them coincide with the amendments tabled for second reading. The Committee on Finance drafted one amendment, which consists mainly of several technical changes and clarifications of the paragraphs made within the areas of government of the ministries. The amendment proposed by the Committee on Finance will also increase regional investment on the basis of proposals from the political groups and support various projects in the third sector and civil society. The consolidated list of these proposals is available on the website of the draft law. The amendments made by the Monetary Commission raise the minimum wage for teachers to EUR 900 per month and allocate additional resources to raise the salaries of health professionals and to national broadcasting for the creation of a Russian-language channel. Now I am talking about the Commission's procedural decisions. The proposal of the Committee on Finance is to put the draft to a final vote at third reading. It was supported by 6 and against 4 members of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U93	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. Every member of the Riigikogu can ask two oral questions. Please, Kalev Kallemets!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U94	Thank you. Dear waitress, I am asking about the sources of coverage for raising the teachers' minimum wage. Can you find this amendment? Do you consider the three sources of cover that are provided here to be one-off or continuous?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U95	Thank you. This was asked in the Commission by a representative of the Ministry of Education and Research, who had been invited to the meeting. In response, we received that all these changes were included in the cost base. Consequently, it was concluded that this is not a one-off expenditure, since where the money is taken is taken into account when determining the cost of the Ministry of Education in the country's budget strategy.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U96	Thank you. Please, Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U97	Thank you very much. Honourable waitress! You gave us an overview of what took place when the amendments were being dealt with in committee. We have all dealt with this in the committees for a long time. What is the difference between the bill that was at the beginning and what is likely to be adopted as a law today? Has the bill changed and, if so, in which direction, more social, progressive or regressive?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U98	Thank you. I guess adjectives come up with all sorts of words, but when you speak numbers, there's a difference of two million euros. It's not that big. Substantial changes were made, but I think that in the general principles the current draft still corresponds to what came to the Riigikogu, and I believe that the draft has improved somewhat.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U99	Thank you. Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U100	Thank you. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! I have to admit, I'm a little confused. The press is talking one way or the other about the penthouse money that's been shared, you come to the remote and say a few sentences about it. Talk about what this roofing money is and whether it is somehow included in the budget. How was the allocation of this money processed? Otherwise, there is a very big contradiction between your laconic performance and what I read in the press and social media. Question two. Five political parties submitted a letter of formal notice to the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which requested that the EUR 5.4 million allocated from the state to the political parties be used as a source of cover. What conclusions did you draw from this letter? What were the views of the political parties represented in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and, at all, in Parliament as political groups?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U101	Thank you. To answer the first question, as I mentioned, the Committee on Monetary Affairs has made changes on the basis of proposals from the political groups. What's the name in the media, I don't know how to judge or comment about it from this remote control, or rather, I won't. I cannot take responsibility for these names in any way, and it is also not up to me to influence the extent to which these activities are reflected anywhere. All these amendments are set out in detail on draft 730 and are available to everyone on the website. Everyone has the right to handle this information the way they feel best or best. To answer the second question, an amendment was tabled on the state budget, which dealt with the same issue. All members of the Commission had the opportunity to express their views in the context of this discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U102	Thank you. Before I give the floor to ask the question of Tarmo Tammele, I would point out that there is always a moderate buzz in the Chamber and it is clear that some members of the Riigikogu have to pick up their ears to hear the performer. They don't seem to be doing very well. So please, quiet in the hall! Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U103	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President of the Commission. Between the second and third readings, quite a lot of money was moved in the state budget, but one place where the money still doesn't go is the top-up of farmers. How does it feel for the Social Democrats, who also have the seat of the Chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs and the Minister for Agriculture, whether there really would not have been three, four or five million euros in the state budget for the top-up?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U104	Within this framework, as the state budget is currently being dealt with, this money was not found. In the longer term, I addressed this issue in a number of responses to the draft at last reading in this Chamber. It's all in the verbatim. I wouldn't be spending my colleagues' time doing this again.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U105	Thank you. Jürgen Ligi has raised his hand and wishes to ask a procedural question. I hope it's a procedural question, not some sort of settlement of other accounts. [[Laughter.]] Please, a procedural question, Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U106	Thank you. I'm not gonna settle any accounts here, but there was a procedural problem that bothered me already during the last reading. The representative of the Committee on Monetary Affairs is constantly asked what he thinks personally or what his party thinks. Unfortunately, he has not been able to remain neutral and has always tended to respond to it in the same way. Would it be possible for the President to sometimes remind both the questioners and the respondents that the representative of the Commission represents the Commission, not his party, and not himself personally? I think this is a fundamental thing that must be monitored in the Riigikogu at all times.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U107	That's a great point. I'm sure everyone heard Jürgen Ligi's proposal. But, frankly, I do not see the possibility that during these minutes of questions, the President of the sitting will be able to deal with the admonition at length. Currently, the members of the Riigikogu have at least four years of experience. Jürgen Ligi's note received a letter of verbatim and we recommend that members of the Riigikogu read it. Please, Priit Onion!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U108	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good Commission waitress! I am interested in the amount allocated to Estonian National Broadcasting for the Russian-language channel. The Broadcasting Council has presented its proposal and understanding to the government, but the Government has decided to allocate a different amount. I asked the representative of the Ministry of Finance about this in the Commission, and I understood that at that point only a one-off decision could be made. However, the Broadcasting Council has considered it important that, if this channel is to be financed, it should be a long-term and sustainable activity. Did the other meetings of the Commission, where I did not attend, say what it would look like in the future and what the funds would be allocated for this in the future? I think it will also be very important in 2015 whether or not broadcasting can use these instruments.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U109	Thank you. According to my memory, this topic was not so thoroughly resolved in other Commission meetings. However, as the representative of the Ministry of Finance said, it is necessary to provide additional resources for the preparation of the 2016 budget for the continuation of this project. The current EUR 2.5 million is still the money to start this channel. I can't tell you exactly what the annual cost of this channel is when it's already started. That is certainly better known to the Broadcasting Council. But everyone admitted that it could not be a one-off project and that money should be foreseen in the 2016 budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U110	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U111	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, thank you for not going back to the amendments that have been tabled for the second time. What the government thinks about them and how the vote was, we have already heard. I don't think anything's changed there. But I would ask you to focus on Amendment 1. This proposal is about the National Audit Office and this amendment did not exist before. For the sake of the verbatim report, I would ask you to talk about both the content of this proposal and the opinion of the Government of the Republic, and, if you remember, the debate we had in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U112	Thank you. Indeed, by the deadline for submitting amendments, we received a proposal to increase the budgetary resources of the National Audit Office, which were justified by the need for auditing in the field of defence and internal security. The Commission discussed this issue and we asked the Ministry of Finance for a comment and an assessment, which it also made. According to this, in 2014, 162000 euros were allocated to the growth of the National Audit Office's payroll fund and 98000 euros were allocated for the next year. It was mentioned that, in the area of governance, there is a right to channel payroll funds into more critical areas and to find resources through internal structural changes and prioritisation. That was a comment from the Treasury Department. The total planned amount is EUR 22,2 million, including available resources for unforeseen costs of EUR 6.7 million. According to the Ministry, these funds should be sufficient to allow audit in the field of defence and internal security, and the National Audit Office has been given sufficient freedom to allocate more resources to priority areas. That was the comment of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U113	Please, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U114	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague! Eesti Pank's economic forecast was published today. I'm looking at the forecast time series. The Ministry of Finance forecast that it prepared the state budget for the following year was 2.5% for growth, 3.9% for the bank's summer forecast, and now the bank says that growth is 2.1%. In recent years, the handwriting has been such that a better and brighter future has initially been predicted, but then the forecast has been constantly reduced downwards. I want to hope that this will not happen, but there is nothing to rule out that in the coming months we will see even more pessimistic forecasts. In this light, I would like to know from you what moment, as the budget manager in Parliament, you feel that we could brake once and review our spending cuts. Does it come from a percentage, or is it something else?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U115	Thank you. As for today's news, it is important to pay attention to the fact that Eesti Pank has raised the economic forecast this year. In other words, it is not a question of comparing the economic forecast for the next year and this year, but rather of what the total volume of the economy is. If this year's forecast is raised and the next year's forecast is cut, then the sum of this amount may not really change. There is, in itself, no very clear signal at this point that there is a need to cut the cost side of the budget and increase the revenue side. As I have said before, of course, when these signals come and are also analysed how economic changes affect tax receipts, this issue will have to be reviewed regardless of whether the year is 2015, 2016, 2017 or 2018. It's a normal process. At the moment, I have not received any signals that the situation has become so critical that we need to start redeploying the state budget. But with forecasts, there are roughly three options: they become more optimistic, more pessimistic or the same. One of these opportunities will surely come true in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U116	Thank you. Please, Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U117	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! I ask you to clarify your answer to one of the previous questions about the Ministry of Education's payroll and cost base. Maybe you made a mistake. You said that this was discussed in the Commission, and this increase has also been put on the expenditure base of the budget strategy. How can one ministry, in this case the Ministry of Education, unilaterally change the budget strategy? So far, it's been a government matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U118	Thank you. Perhaps this information did not arrive in the form that the supplier of the information meant. According to the Ministry of Education and Research, these restructurings that have been carried out in this area have been incorporated into the cost base in the future. In other words, one expenditure included in the expenditure base is replaced by another, which is perfectly correct in terms of budgetary strategy. The Ministry of Finance also had no objection to this in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U119	Thank you. Please, Andres Herkel, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U120	Thank you. I will continue with my first question. I do not mean that this money is going to go to the wrong place, but I think we are reaching new lines of clientelistic policy with so-called 'roof money'. This sharing mechanism is certainly wrong and has also been criticised by civil society organisations. The self-determination of Parliament with the state budget could have been quite different. In fact, the Minister of Finance has visited the Riigikogu with this budget only once, it took place at first reading, and then the minister was our present colleague Jürgen Ligi. The current Minister of Finance has not defended this budget in front of the Riigikogu. Why? Didn't the Commission raise this question? It could have analysed the changing economic forecasts, even at the same time. I thought that would have been necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U121	Thank you. This was indeed not the case in the Commission. As regards the analysis of economic forecasts, in full respect of the format we currently have, I am not sure that this would be the most effective option for this purpose. If necessary, these tests must be performed. If they are, it is reasonable to involve the Minister of Finance. The former Minister of Finance has been most involved politically in putting this budget together. I think it is entirely correct that the previous Minister for Finance was able to defend this budget here in front of Parliament. So the short answer is no. In the Commission, the issue of the new Minister for Finance coming up to a large hall with this budget was not raised.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U122	Thank you. Please, Rein Lang!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U123	Thank you, manager. Good chairman of the committee! Before the third reading, the political groups of the Riigikogu have presented a pretty good package of amendments to the draft state budget law. As a result, one table has emerged, which is quite a fun reading. In your interview on 'Actual Cameras', I think you said that the Commission did not go any further into the logic of the expenditure to be made. Did I misunderstand your words, or did you confuse something? Please explain, in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu, exactly how this so-called 'roof money' was handled in the Committee on Monetary Affairs under your direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U124	Thank you. I think you did not get the wrong idea, but I did not express that the Committee on Monetary Affairs did not go any further on whether these expenditures were rational or not. The truth is that it is not possible for the Committee on Monetary Affairs to analyse all these items in detail, simply because of the lack of staff. However, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, this table was revised and revised so that the principles that we have set were reflected there. All municipalities and NGOs, which are quite numerous in this table, were not really analysed. That was the point of my comment. The process, however, looked exactly like I've been trying to describe it in several media. The Commission received proposals from the political groups, they were worked out with the Ministry of Finance and an amendment was drawn up on this basis. In short, it looks like an increase in the cost of ministries, but since it probably does not give the reader a good picture, a list of these objects has also been added. If you want to, you can find out where these resources go.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U125	Please, Tarmo Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U126	Thank you, manager. Good chairman of the committee! I was surprised to hear that the Committee on Monetary Affairs confirmed the teachers' minimum wage. Does the Ministry of Education still exist in Estonia, or has it lost its importance when the Committee on Monetary Affairs confirms the teachers' minimum wage? The question is this. As far as I know, in order to comply with the Supreme Court's resolution on the financing of private schools, the budget for the following year should be EUR 16 million. Is that money in the budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U127	Thank you. I reviewed my wording when I was talking about the minimum wage for teachers. I said that with the amendment made by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the minimum rate of pay will rise, i.e. the Committee on Monetary Affairs will allocate funds. The decision that the Committee on Monetary Affairs confirms the minimum wage of teachers has certainly not been taken. However, it does provide a little more than EUR 3.2 million for the minimum wage for teachers to rise from the current EUR 800 to EUR 900. In principle, EUR 1080 per teacher is allocated to the municipality. This difference is so that wages can be differentiated.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U128	Thank you. Please, Erki Arrow!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U129	Thank you. I don't know if Rein Lang was satisfied with your answer. I understood his question better than your answer. But I have such a question for you, as chairman of the committee. One thing is the budget on paper, where everything is beautiful, the figures almost match, but what do you personally think or what is your Commission planning, what is the minus by the end of 2015, bearing in mind that the new year's excise duty is rising? It's in the interest of the planned revenue. If you look at 2013 or, for example, the period from August to October 2014, you can see that excise duties on alcohol and tobacco were significantly lower at that time. What is your personal assessment in the light of this budget, how much is the minus in the end?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U130	Thank you. I'm certainly not going to bring out specific figures and differences. According to current knowledge, the balance of the budget will be what has been presented to us here. If we were to think otherwise, we should start redeploying the budget. Since we have not done so, what we know now is that the structural and nominal balance of the budget is exactly the same as that presented.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U131	Thank you. Please, Sven Sester, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U132	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! On your last answer, I'll say IRL thinks differently. We believe that the structural balance of the budget is no longer in place. We rely on the calculations made by the European Commission to say this. The European Commission has identified countries that have fulfilled the obligations agreed upon. Estonia is not among those that are unfortunate. Hence my question to you: how now? Your story is based only on the statement that you think so. We're like a family in Europe. You, too, being a different party and currently part of the coalition, should accept the rules of the family that we ourselves have wanted to be part of. Why do you say at some point that this rule of the game doesn't make sense to follow it or to act on it? Why is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U133	Thank you. Now I have been given a lot of arguments that I have never said. But I'm trying to do a little bit more generally on this subject. I understood that the question concerned the structural balance. We talked about this for a long time at last reading in this very hall, it can be looked at in the verbatim. From memory, I answered that question two or three times quite thoroughly, I am not going to go over that again. As everyone who has been in this Chamber and in the Committee on Monetary Affairs is aware, the main issue in which the European Commission and several international organisations with Estonia disagree is the assessment of our economic cycle, including the assessment of the so-called GDP gap. This topic is not new, this problem occurred many years ago. The European Commission has not given us any precepts that we should review our budget. The structural balance of our budget has improved compared to previous years, so there has been a movement. The question is, according to one estimate, the structural balance is 0.7 plus, the other by 0.8 minus. This interpretational problem of structural balance will remain in the future. The reasons why these estimates differ are likely to be more objective in some countries and less objective in others. If the Ministry of Finance was the only one of the institutions to interpret it, then I think there would be grounds for discussion. If the European Commission had proposed to us, we should seriously consider this. None of these assumptions are met. Personally, I do not see a major problem at the moment when assessing the structural balance, so that we should begin to correct it in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U134	Thank you. Please, Rein Lang, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U135	Thank you, Mr President. Good chairman of the committee! Although the Estonian Constitution gives you immunity by making statements in Parliament or its bodies, please say, in clear Estonian, can you assure us that the resources for teachers' salary increase are not in the 2014 budget, the 2015 budget or the current expenditure on one-off expenditure provided for in the Ministry of Education's 2016 budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U136	Thank you. You can't say that here. But I can claim that these expenses are included in the expense of the Ministry of Education. In other words, in the future, it will be possible to do exactly the same without exceeding this cost.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U137	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U138	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, I will essentially repeat Mr Tarmo Tamme's question because we did not get an answer to that. According to the Supreme Court ruling, the state is expected to start financing private schools from next year. Its total funding amounts to around EUR 6 million. Where is the amount in the budget that we are going to adopt today? If it's not there, why? However, the Supreme Court's decision should be enforced, especially by the Government.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U139	Thank you. As of now, the budget for next year has been estimated at EUR 7 million. I can't tell if it meets all the needs or not. I know that on Monday there will be a meeting of the Committee on Culture where this issue will once again be thoroughly examined. Seven million euros must be found in cooperation between the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Finance. I know it's been dealt with. I have been assured that finding such an amount in the budget for next year is realistic and has been taken into account. If the necessary amount is higher, for which I and the Committee on Monetary Affairs do not know, then it must be further addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U140	Thank you. Please, Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U141	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! For the third reading of the state budget, IRL had a proposal to cut the economic costs of some ministries by 5% and the Government of the Republic's reserve of 10 or even 12 million euros. We did not support this proposal in the Commission. Maybe you can explain in this hall why we couldn't support such a great thing that we're taking away the money they spend at the end of the year. What, in essence, would such a proposal have meant for ministries and their administrations?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U142	Thank you. Indeed, such an amendment was received. This concerned a wide range of institutions and ministries. It did not specifically mention what would not be done as a result of this amendment. I resist the temptation to comment further on this, because, as I have had some in-depth discussions in this Chamber on the amendment, this issue was quite well reflected in the previous, second reading. In the meantime, there have been no fundamental changes in the context of this amendment or, in fact, there have been no changes at all and my views are all available from the verbatim.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U143	Thank you. Please, Erki Arrow, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U144	Thank you. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! My question is maybe weird, but I'm asking you to understand. If you go to the bank to take out a mortgage, will the bank evaluate your nominal or structural balance sheet? On what balance sheet do you receive a bank loan? What balance sheet, which would also be accepted by financial institutions, shows your financial position?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U145	Thank you. When I went there as a private person, I didn't exactly file a balance sheet like that. You could probably have derived the profit and loss account from my income and expenses in one form or another, but I did not submit this either when I went to the bank to apply for a mortgage. Which parameters the bank specifically takes into account, it would be reasonable to ask some credit institutions. I believe that depending on the person and on what the money is being requested, these parameters will vary. I think that drawing parallels between the personal household and the state budget is sometimes appropriate, sometimes not. At the moment, I find it quite difficult to draw a parallel here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U146	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U147	Thank you. Good colleague! Yesterday, the Minister of Defence signed an agreement to pay EUR 138 million until 2020. There's been a lot of bills going through the press. How much money has been included in the 2015 budget for this contract?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U148	Thank you. We have not dealt directly with this issue in the Commission. In total, defence expenditure is estimated at slightly more than 2% of GDP, namely 2.05%, which is just over 400 million euros. Of this money, all the costs that will be incurred in 2015 will certainly be covered.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U149	Thank you very much. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. I would like to ask Kadri Samson to speak on behalf of the Centre Party Group. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U150	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In time, the Riigikogu will adopt the state budget for the following year. It is precisely because only the members of the coalition will vote in favour of it. It is difficult for the opposition to support the budget when, in essence, all opposition amendments have been rejected, even if the changes they propose and their need are acknowledged. This is how it repeats from year to year. It is said that the state budget is a matter of political choices. But this year we arrived at least so far that one of our coalition partners liked our source of cover. True, it was also acknowledged that the cost of being in a coalition is not to support the right thing. We are patient with our amendments, but I fear that the patience of the Estonian people will soon cease. I am talking about the real Estonian people, the flesh and the bones of people who live here and consider Estonia their home. Unfortunately, lately, it seems that these people are not remembered when putting together the budget. More and more are spoken about e-Estonians, but people who live in the countryside and are struggling to cope daily. If Estonia's future is a complete e-state, do we think that only e-residents who settle with e-money and to whom the state does not have to offer anything except e-services? I am not ashamed to talk abroad about Estonia's concept of e-state and paperless business, but I am sad to talk about how the average Estonian lives in rural areas. There is no cure for this in the next state budget. As we walk the smooth asphalt of Ämari, we quickly forget that the lives of many people are not rosy and the solutions promised in the budget do not make this life easier. Next year the income tax rate will fall from 21% to 20%, largely due to pressure from one party. It costs the state a lot despite promises, but it benefits a few. Next year, the person earning the minimum wage will benefit from a reduction in the income tax rate of 26,6 euros per year, the person earning the average salary, of whom the Reform Party likes to talk, 97.2 euros, the member of the Riigikogu 373 euros and the Prime Minister 583 euros. I will repeat these figures: the person earning the minimum wage will receive EUR 26,6 and the Prime Minister will receive EUR 583. Does that seem fair? The faction of the Centre Party clearly states that this is an unfair measure. We believe that such a net imbalance-enhancing step should not be taken by society. This is a very large gift for those who receive higher than average wages at the expense of all Estonian people. Some people can buy a pair of expensive colored socks with this money that match the color of the tie, but for the recipient of the minimum wage, it is a matter of everyday basic livelihood. For these people, it is crucial that, instead of reducing the income tax rate, there is an increase in the tax-free minimum, for example, because it would benefit as much of all employees, no matter what, you are a hospital carer, a skilled worker, a bank analyst or a prime minister. There are several ways of reducing labour taxes and, unfortunately, the Reform Party has chosen a way of reducing the tax rate. For the last ten years, they've been focusing on this. At the same time, we are hearing that there is not enough money to guarantee essential services for people. That's sad. We are increasingly moving towards the fact that soon the only guaranteed services in Estonia will be e-doctoral queues, e-school, e-Tax Board and online police. These are all nice and comfortable things, but the doctor's order doesn't cure a person, e-school reflects grades and learning, but doesn't provide education for children, e-Tax doesn't reduce tax holes, and the online policeman on the street doesn't catch a bag robber. The Centre Party tabled seven amendments to the third reading of the budget. I will start with the smallest volume, yet a very important proposal, which was intended to allocate EUR 250000 to the National Audit Office. The National Audit Office currently lacks the ability to control how the funds allocated to defence expenditure are used. This amendment was not supported, although the use of 2% of GDP in a transparent manner should be very important both from the state budget point of view and from the general transparency point of view. We received a reply that the National Audit Office should find this money more or less by internal structural changes. But it's not happening! In addition to increasing the salary fund of the National Audit Office and the Police and Border Guard Board, we wanted to increase the school lunch allowance to one euro, pay Estonian farmers additional direct aid in the amount allowed by the European Union, increase the funding for local roads and allow special-purpose diesel fuel to be used for heating next year and thus prevent tax increases, which will bring 38% higher heating bills for many Estonian families next year. We also wanted to guarantee free bus services for Estonian people on the county routes. All of this could have been done if a reduction in the rate of income tax had been avoided. The opposition amendments must always have a cover, we cannot borrow in addition to the state budget, we cannot use reserves. In this budget, it can certainly be commended that free school lunch also reaches upper secondary school. The Centre Party has stood for this for years. But for years, or rather the fifth year, we have also said that the 78 cents allocated are no longer enough to provide students with a healthy and delicious warm school lunch. This 78 cents is also not enough to provide lunch for upper secondary school students. In fact, by allowing free school lunch, another burden will be placed on local authorities, who will have to find extra money to make free school lunch available to students. Unfortunately, the Centre Party Group cannot support the state budget for next year. Yes, we admit that it is a question of choice. But to give away so much money from the state budget and, at the same time, not to choose to ensure that the state carries out its tasks properly, we think it is wrong. We believe that the electorate will make the right choice on 1 March next year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U151	Any more calls? Aivar Sõerd, two minutes from position, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U152	I'd like to make a speech. I pressed the wrong button.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U153	Then press again. Please, Aivar Sõerd on behalf of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U154	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The process of preparing the budget for next year, which began in spring, is coming to an end. It is clear that one year's budget cannot solve all the problems facing the country. Next year's budget will have very clear priorities: increasing people's well-being and confidence and strengthening security and defence capabilities. We can allow this, because economic growth and improved tax revenues allow all of this. Eesti Pank also stated very clearly in its economic forecast published today that the Estonian economy has done quite well, and the growth of 2% is perfectly decent compared to the growth of other European Union countries, our main trading partners. I will also say a few words about budgetary balance. We have a body set up as a national institution to assess the budgetary balance. This is the fiscal council near Eesti Pank. This Council has made a clear recommendation to secure the structural position of the budget in such a way that it is at least 0.6% higher than the spring budget strategy envisaged. This recommendation has been implemented in the budgetary plan submitted to the government. As provided for in the procedure, the Riigikogu cannot change the balance of the budget, so this position is the same in an acceptable budget. In any case, the budgetary plan must be followed and it also follows a conservative approach to date. We have to take into account that growth in Europe has slowed down and that the economic recovery of European countries is losing momentum. The 2015 budget secures a framework that provides better external and internal security, improves people's livelihoods, supports economic growth and follows a conservative trend that has been maintained so far. Now I am talking about the changes discussed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Riigikogu. Greater changes were, of course, regional investments, but there was also a decision on a further increase in teachers' salaries. The opinion of the Committee on Monetary Affairs was that the minimum wage for teachers should be raised to EUR 900. This means that the minimum wage for teachers will rise by 12.5% compared to this year. But wages are also rising in a number of other priority areas, within the remit of several other ministries, such as the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Social Affairs, as well as employees in the field of internal security. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U155	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U156	At the same time, the Committee on Monetary Affairs could not in any way support such a proposal, which I believe would only seem to have improved the budgetary position, i.e. the proposal to cut the reserve of the Government of the Republic to EUR 10 million or more. The reserve simply doesn't have such resources. There are resources to cover extraordinary expenses in the same order of magnitude as has always been. For example, a 5% cut in the road administration's economic costs would have meant cutting road savings by EUR 3.5 million. But, to sum up, there are a lot of happy messages in the budget. Allowances for families with children are increasing, pensions are rising, the income of people who are paid by the state is increasing. There are good messages for earners: the income tax rate is falling and unemployment insurance is falling, the tax-free minimum is increasing, and as consumer prices have decreased, but wage growth is continuing, real wage growth will also exceed the overall growth rate of the economy next year. Of course, it should be taken into account that fiscal policy is not only one year-on-year, its impact goes beyond that. It is therefore important that the tax burden remains at the same level as this year, i.e. 32.7% of GDP. Faster than the overall increase in the budget, public education support will increase. With the support of the state budget and European Union funds, the school network will continue to be organised. I would also like to point out that the structure of tax revenues is undergoing a major change, in particular towards a more growth-friendly tax environment, as the share of labour taxes decreases. In no way could the Committee on Monetary Affairs agree with the proposal to make the amendment to the Income Tax Act adopted in 2011 as a source of cover for some cost-increasing proposals, increasing the rate of income tax by 1%. The amendments that make the economic environment worse, the tax burden in general, and also the burden of labour taxes, could not be supported. I would like to thank all those who contributed to the long process of budgetary processing. Finally, the Reform Party Group will certainly support the adoption of the 2015 budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U157	Thank you. Please, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, Mrs Vassilyev.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U158	Ladies and gentlemen, In the context of this budget, I have been able to express quite a lot of ideas here, and I am now trying to be relatively brief. It often happens that what has been becomes the norm and very much focuses on what has already been changing it. I'm trying to dissect the budget a little bit from this angle, too. The process of processing this budget has been slightly different than in the past, because it is remembered that a new coalition was born in spring, March, and quite a lot of the budget debate was already held at that time. In fact, there were quite fundamental changes compared to the previous one. Perhaps the fact that this issue has been the focus of both the media and certainly of all Members since spring is also the reason why, sometimes in this Chamber, the 'greater changes' in terms of financial terms have attracted less attention, but I dare say also in terms of substance. Quite a lot we have talked about a number of changes of a smaller size, both those that were accepted by the majority and those that did not. However, I dare to mark the topics that I and the Group of the Social Democratic Party believe are the most significant changes compared to the previous ones. There has been a lot of talk in this hall and outside of it about things that have been said that the idea has been good, but there is no way to find a source of cover. There are quite a number of these issues. Quite a number of these problems have been resolved in one form or another in the 2015 budget. In our opinion, the biggest change that will take place next year is certainly an increase in child support. There's been a lot of talk about this in this hall. I remember a little over a year ago, we also held a night hearing on the subject. Hopefully there won't be any more night sessions like this. Now 11 years will come since the support of the first and second children last rose, and it will now be the last of these days. This is certainly, in the opinion of the Socialists, an important change in substance, but it is also a change in a large financial scale. There has also been a long discussion of reducing unemployment insurance contributions and increasing the tax-free minimum. It's always been said that I wanted to do it, but I can't find the source. They found it this time. That's exactly what we've been saying about school food. Gymnastics will now also receive free school lunch. In other words, to do quite a lot of things that have been seen for years as things that I would like to do, but cannot be done, it creates the assumptions and opportunities of the state budget. I want to thank the Coalition Partner Reform Party. What's to deny here, in the spring when we formed the coalition, we said that we were going to enter into a coalition agreement, but the view of the world is not harmonised. It has not been an easy process, but I think it has been constructive and successful in every way. One minute more time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U159	One more minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U160	I think that there have been quite a lot of things that could be useful to the whole of Estonia. Often, when it comes to politics, the idea of politics is used in English, or the whole policy is local. It is attributed to a number of people, I think most of all to Tip O'Neill, the Speaker of the House of Representatives. I think this principle is correct. I hope that there are as many people as possible across Estonia who really feel that something is changing in their lives compared to the 2015 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U161	Thank you. Please, Sven Sester, on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U162	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, When, in September, almost three months ago, this budget was transferred, the Prime Minister said it was a budget of confidence. Please note that this word has not been used at all later on during the budgetary procedure. I've already said when the budget was transferred, why no one is using it anymore. There is talk of a budget of confidence, but we will see what changes will come next year. We see that the starting-up of parental pension is postponed for three years. The coalition says nobody's missing anything. I'm asking you, if someone doesn't miss something, where does the money come from? With this postponement, an additional EUR 23 million will be found on the revenue side, i.e. somebody will miss EUR 23 million. Someone actually misses even EUR 70 million, given that the parental pension is postponed for three years. The same is true of farmers next year. We can see that transitional support has been reduced to around zero. So this is the place of confidence! There's no point in talking about a rise in gas excise duty. It was intended to explain that this excise would not rise very much. Friends, gas excise will rise 100% in the next three years. If this is not very much, then the question arises, which you think is very much. But when you say that it is not very much financially, I say that in the third year it is already EUR 10 million. It comes at the expense of someone, it's a clean redistribution. So much for this budget of confidence, which we are not really talking about anymore. Now a few words about the amendments made by the IRL. I would like to specifically highlight one of the nine amendments that we tabled for the last, third reading. This amendment envisages improving our own budgetary position. We proposed a reduction of 10 million euros in the expenditure of the state budget for the following year, simply taking this money away from the government reserve. In the past, it has not generally been the case that proposals are being made to improve the position, especially from the opposition's point of view. This proposal was not supported. If I look at the European Commission's estimates, we will be structurally negative at 0.8% next year. The fact that we're nominally in the minus, so our everyday life is in the minus, it's all clear, and no one's arguing back. We are down to 100 million euros next year. So far, the argument has been made that we are taking off one-off revenues and expenses, and then we see that we are still moving towards a plus. It's not like that! The European Commission has mentioned five countries for which it has no comments: Germany, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Slovakia and Ireland. These countries comply with the budgetary rules. All others have comments to a lesser or greater extent. Estonia is not one of these five. Honestly, that's a shame. I say here that in 2016, the Estonian Fiscal Council will have a place to decide when it has to review the budget for next year. My gut tells me we'll be hearing comments. I will also talk about the amendments. The IRL proposed to allocate additional resources to build a memorial for the victims of communism. There seems to be a social agreement here, but unfortunately, the money will not be allocated next year. We also proposed a national border for both second and third readings. Part of the resources were found, but I will be honest with you that the case of the Eston Suitcase is not just about the state border. From cross-border smuggling to trafficking in human beings in a literal sense, all of this needs to be prevented. I've been talking about farmers. The IRL proposed to partially re-establish transitional support. We also provided for the need for additional funding for R &amp; D. If we want to be innovative, we want to be a country that develops science, the amount that is now visible there is too small. I will also mention the single parent maintenance fund. We have issued a draft procedure so that the government should draw up a specific draft law to create it. We provided EUR 300000 for the development. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the common denominator of all these amendments? None of them were supported. That's their common thread. Today, Eesti Pank's new economic forecast came. We can see that the 3.9% offered in the summer for next year's economic growth has now turned into 2.1%. We know that the state budget has been calculated that next year's economic growth will be 2.5%. We also know that every next forecast is more pessimistic. I am afraid that when we see the economic forecast at the beginning of next year, although I do not want to think so, it will be even more pessimistic. In this light, the question arises as to whether we should make any cuts in costs. The coalition's answer is no, we do not have to do them, we cannot do them, because next year there will be elections. I don't think that's right. We're losing one year. Yesterday, the Ministry of Finance made a devastating assessment of environmental charges. He said that, in formal terms, environmental charges are not taxes, but in essence they are one of the tax-political instruments in the hands of the state to manage the economic environment. What did the Ministry of Finance say? He said it was a systemless and non-figurative tax policy. I repeat: a systemless and non-bodied tax policy. That's what the Ministry of Finance says to the Ministry of the Environment. Friends, the state budget has exactly the same message, it's systemless and without a big picture. I reiterate that I believe that we are losing one year for Estonia with this budget. It is only the knowledge that this is the pre-election interim budget that the temporary government has brought to our table that gives us the opportunity to debate something at all today in this remote area. After the elections, we can focus on measures that actually improve people's livelihoods, support growth, reduce labour taxes and help create new jobs, we can focus on these measures, starting with the tax reform of the low-wage earners and ending with the measures that boost the economy. Unfortunately, this budget does not allow this. The IRL does not support the adoption of this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U163	Thank you very much. I will close the negotiations and we will examine the amendments. 17 amendments to the draft have been tabled. Amendment 1 is from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the proposal of the commission is not to be taken into account. According to § 120 (5) of the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, proposal No 1 is not to be voted on. Amendment 2 has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 3 is from the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union; the proposal of the commission is not to be taken into account. Proposal No 3 is not to be voted on in accordance with the above paragraph. Every time I say this, I mean the reference to Paragraph 120 (5). Number 4 is from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the proposal of the commission is not to be taken into account. Not to be voted on. Number 5 is from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the proposal of the commission is not to be taken into account. Not to be voted on. Number 6 is from the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union; the proposal of the commission is not to be taken into account. Not to be voted on. Number 7 is from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the proposal of the commission is not to be taken into account. Not to be voted on. Number 8 is from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the proposal of the commission is not to be taken into account. Not to be voted on. Number 9 is from the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union; the proposal of the commission is not to be taken into account. Not to be voted on. Number 10 is from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the proposal of the commission is not to be taken into account. Not to be voted on. Number 11 is from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the proposal of the commission is not to be taken into account. Not to be voted on. Number 12 is from the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union; the proposal of the commission is not to be taken into account. Not to be voted on. Number 13 is from the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union; the proposal of the commission is not to be taken into account. Not to be voted on. Number 14 is from the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union; the proposal of the commission is not to be taken into account. Not to be voted on. Number 15 is from the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union; the proposal of the commission is not to be taken into account. Not to be voted on. Number 16 is from the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union; the proposal of the commission is not to be taken into account. Not to be voted on. Number 17 is from the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union; the proposal of the commission is to be disregarded. No vote shall be taken on the basis of § 120 (5) of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure. All the amendments have been examined and we are going to the final vote on the draft, because that is the proposal of the lead committee. Let's get ready for the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft 2015 State Budget Act 730 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 56 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 35 against and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U164	Let's go to the next item. The third reading of Bill 725 of the State Fees Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I would like to ask for the chair Aivar Riisalu, who has the authority to represent the IRL Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U165	Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, We have another state tax law on the table. The state fees have become an industry in the hands of the Estonian government. The different levels of state fees need to be regularly updated and it is a great pity to admit that in Estonia's understanding, this is an industry that has been entrusted with the task of fulfilling the state budget. The deeper nature of the state fee does not imply that it is a means of implementing the state budget. The state fee is the kind of money that is charged on a cost-based basis to carry out the activities that the State and the subjects associated with it need to do. Unfortunately, we have not been able to come up with a unique and nice system in Estonia that satisfies all parties. Reading that law made me feel strange. The cost-orientation is probably such a complex principle that the state fees law is billed in such a way that I look up for a moment, listen to what Ants says from up there, and I will write it into the law. Let me give you a few examples of what I drew down when I browsed this law on a completely random sample basis. If you register a patent application, you will pay a state fee of EUR 26 for it in the first year, but if you want no one else to be able to imitate, admit or do anything about your patent for a period of time, then in the twentieth year, for example, you will have to pay EUR 630 to keep the patent. Where does that make sense? It doesn't seem to exist, just from somewhere up there, there's a sign that this could be the case in the twentieth year, because there's no need for some inventor's creation to be protected in twenty years' time, but then everyone can freely move and everything is awfully good. It was a random example. The second and more tragic side of the matter, which has also been very much talked about in politics, is the defence of their rights, for example, in judicial proceedings. Let me give you another example. If you want to submit an application for legal proceedings and your claim is, for example, EUR 500, the state fee for the initiation of proceedings is EUR 100, if the claim is EUR 100000, then the state fee is EUR 1200. Let's take a look at the proportions: your problem versus the state fee paid, the difference is tens of times. We understand logically that a person who can have 500 euros of money will never consider it reasonable to even start proceedings in order to remedy fundamental injustice, because, forgive me, for a 100 euros state fee, 500 euros will not even be recovered by me. For the simple reason that it does not have very deep content. Let's talk about the country and the ways in which it behaves, which may not be the most directly affected by this bill, but on the edge. The notaries have raised the question that when Estonia changed its currency system... I'll take three more minutes just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U166	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U167	We went to the euro, but in all registers, for example, mortgages are still written in Estonian kroons. It has made life so much more difficult that every time you make deals and maneuver with mortgages, someone has to convert these mortgages into euros, taken into kroons years, years and years later. I asked the notary if I had to convert the mortgage into euros, what would happen then? He said that it was a notarial transaction and that it would have to be paid in exactly the same way as the state fee under the same law. Perhaps simply the fact that we have developed and our country has taken a big step forward, gone to the euro zone, will cost citizens, as a result of this law, what these people do not seem to have to do. I may have an appeal to the legislators. It is up to us to change the way I say, the injustice of success. If we declare that state fees are not a mechanism for making money to the state, we should, for example, recalculate all mortgages in a valid currency free of charge. But whether we have the courage of a citizen to do so, I am not so sure of that. We discussed the topic of state fees in depth in the group and came to a deep recognition that many places in the state fee law in this form are incomprehensible to us. It seems arbitrary that state fees are constantly rising. Since we cannot accept that the state fee mechanism is a source of money for the state, and we believe that cost orientation should be used here, the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance will not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U168	Thank you. Any more calls? No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote. We are preparing for the final vote. Since this bill requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu, we do a verification of the presence. 81 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 20 missing. We shall proceed to the vote. Good Riigikogu, I vote on the draft law on state fees initiated by the Government of the Republic 725. Please take a stand and vote. 53 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 30 against and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U169	We'll continue the trial. The fourth item is the second reading of the draft Act 748 on the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on Trafficking in Human Beings initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr Jüri Morozov, Member of the Legal Affairs Committee, would you like to present the speech chair?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U170	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee discussed this draft and prepared it for second reading on Tuesday, 2 December. Let me remind you that the Convention has three objectives. Firstly, taking into account the principle of gender equality, to prevent and combat trafficking in human beings. Secondly, to protect the human rights of victims of human trafficking, to establish a general set of rules for the protection and assistance of victims and witnesses, taking into account the principle of gender equality, and to ensure effective investigation and prosecution. Thirdly, to promote international cooperation against trafficking in human beings. An appropriate monitoring system shall be established to ensure the effective implementation of the Convention. The Convention applies to all forms of manifestation of trafficking in human beings within and between States, regardless of their involvement in organised crime. The Contracting Parties shall implement the provisions of the Convention, in particular measures to protect and promote the rights of victims, without any discrimination based on sex, race, colour, language, religion, political or other views, national or social origin, membership of a national minority or property, birth or other status. 43 Member States of the Council of Europe have signed and ratified the Convention. It has not yet been ratified by Estonia and the Czech Republic. There were no discussions in the Commission, no amendments were tabled. It was decided to send the draft to the plenary session by 10 December, i.e. today (this was a consensual decision) and to put it to a final vote (as well as a consensual decision). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U171	Thank you very much. There's a question for you. Please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U172	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Perhaps you will tell everyone in this hall, which is contained in Article 31 (1) (d) and (e), which the Estonian state does not have to apply.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U173	Yes, § 2 'Declaration' of the Bill states that, in accordance with Article 31 (2) of the Convention, the Republic of Estonia declares that it reserves the right not to apply Article 31 (1) (d) and (e) of the Convention. Article 31 "Jurisdiction' states that a Contracting Party shall take legislative or other measures to establish its jurisdiction over the offence referred to in the Convention if it is committed (point (d) by its national or stateless person domiciled in its territory, if the offence is punishable by criminal law at the place where it was committed, or if the offence is committed outside the territorial jurisdiction of any State or (point (e) against the citizen of that Contracting Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U174	Thank you very much. No more questions for the waitress. No amendments to the draft were received. Any requests for negotiation? There's no call. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote on 748. Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote in the final vote on the draft Act on the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on Anti-trafficking in Human Beings initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 61 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no votes against or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U175	Today's fifth item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Penal Code and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. The chair will be presented by Kalle Jents, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U176	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of this draft was held in this large Chamber on 12 November and the deadline for tabling amendments was set at 26 November. No amendments were received, but the Committee on Legal Affairs itself made 19 amendments. The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the draft on 2 December and Heili Sepp, Head of the Department of Penal Law and Procedure of the Ministry of Justice, participated in the debate. This debate resulted in 19 amendments, as I have already mentioned. According to the first amendment, the title of the draft has changed. If before there was a draft law amending the Penal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, there is now a draft law amending the Penal Code and other laws. The amendments to two other laws were added, the Tax Administration Act and the Public Water Supply and Sewerage Act were amended. I'm not going to deal with all the changes one by one. There are no very fundamental changes in course; in essence, this is a correction of errors in the law adopted in spring as a result of the revision of criminal law. Corrections have mainly been made in different configurations of the Penal Code. It should be said that the Commission adopted all the decisions in a consensual manner and proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 10 December, i.e. today, and that the second reading should be completed (really, it was adopted by one of the members of the Commission). Proposals were also made to send the draft to third reading when the second one is closed, by 16 December, and to put it to the final vote (again consensually).
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U177	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? Please, Väino Linde!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U178	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! This is usually done at first reading, but perhaps you will explain quickly the purpose of this draft. What did we do with this audit anyway?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U179	When this bill came to first reading, there were new formations, precisely those involved in illegal border crossing. Certain cases that we had at the border certainly affected the formation of the bill. But these new proposals for improvement, as I have pointed out, are indeed being adjusted as a result of this revision of the Spring Penal Code. This is the result of the second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U180	No further questions. It's all clear. Thank you very much, Kalle Jents. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. Nineteen amendments to the draft have been received and we will examine them very calmly. Amendment 1 has been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs; the proposal of the commission is fully taken into account. Number 2 is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to be fully taken into account. Number 3 is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to be fully taken into account. Number 4 is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to be fully taken into account. Number 5 is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to be fully taken into account. Number 6 is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to be fully taken into account. Number 7 is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to be fully taken into account. Number 8 is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to be fully taken into account. Number 9, this is proposed by the Committee on Legal Affairs, fully accounted for. Number 10 has been taken fully into account by the Committee on Legal Affairs, Amendment 11 is from the Committee on Legal Affairs, fully taken into account, Amendment 12 is from the Committee on Legal Affairs, fully taken into account, Amendment 13 is from the Committee on Legal Affairs, fully taken into account. Amendments 14, 15, 16, 17, 18 and 19 have been taken fully into account by the Committee on Legal Affairs. We have examined the amendments. Second reading of the bill is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U181	The next item is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Environmental Charges Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. For a presentation, please, Minister of the Interior of the Chair Hanno Pevkur!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U182	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! At the request of my colleague and with your permission, allow me to introduce the draft law amending the Environmental Charges Act 778. According to the draft Act amending the Environmental Charges Act, § 9 51 of the Environmental Charges Act is added, which allows for the application of a factor of 0,5 for the calculation of the mineral mining right fee below the groundwater level in the case of sand and gravel mining. The coefficient is necessary to encourage the extraction of sand and gravel even in the case of mountain reserves where sand and gravel are below the groundwater level and are extracted from the water. Mining without lowering the groundwater level or opening a new quarry to extract the same amount of sand or gravel and using the existing ones will have a lower environmental impact. Mining does not create a groundwater reduction funnel, and much more mineral resources are taken out of the same range than would be possible without going in depth. Without underwater extraction, the same amount of mineral resources should be used to create a new career or to expand the existing one, but it would extend the surface area of the affected ecosystems, although the same activity can be achieved without increasing the impact. The lower environmental impact is reflected in the more complete excavation of mineral resources in both horizontal and vertical directions. If new careers were opened, the soil and landscape would be damaged in a larger area, and mining in a larger area would have an additional impact on the natural, social and also economic environment. Thus, the specific objective of the amendment is to excavate the mineral resource as fully as possible without causing any additional damage. The draft was submitted to the Ministry of Coordination and the Cities and Municipalities Associations on 22 September. The deadline for coordination was set at 13 October at the time. The government was able to discuss the draft on 13 November, and now we have reached the large hall with the draft. The draft has been dealt with in the past as a draft amendment to the Environmental Charges Act and the Euro Adoption Act and the Environmental Charges Act. As Paragraph 1 (1) of the above draft is not expected to be repealed before 2015, the Environmental Charges Act needs to be amended. The draft was redrafted on this basis. The proposal is to enforce the bill as a law on 1 January. Paragraph 1 (1) of the Environmental Charges Act adopted on 8 December 2010 and the Amending Act to the introduction of the euro provide for the repeal of Paragraph 9 (5) of the Environmental Charges Act as from 1 January 2015. At that time, the explanatory memorandum of the draft proposal justified the loss of the coefficient as a result of problems with the application of the coefficient. The coefficient should not be applied to mining in the sea and should be mined below the level of groundwater specified in the permit, but the level of groundwater would be actually reduced. In addition, the explanatory memorandum referred to the lack of calculations by companies which would demonstrate a higher cost of extraction below the groundwater level. The Ministry of the Environment also submitted calculations of mining costs to both Kiiu Soon and the Road Administration, which have the right to mine below the groundwater level in 14 mountain reserves. The amendment that has been put before you is estimated to concern 48 mining permits, on the basis of which mining activities took place in 2013. Of these, 14 permits will be used by the Road Administration. The Road Administration has also predicted the increase in the price of the material used in road construction due to the change, both to the increase in the cost of the Road Administration and to the increase in the price of the material sold on the market. An estimated 600000 cubic metres should cost approximately half more for the material without applying the coefficient. The volume of mining last year was estimated at 636000 cubic metres and the fee was paid at EUR 335000. The companies affected by this change are circuma 20. It is clear that the cost ratio could result in less underground extraction and certainly does not encourage the future application of this method. The amendment concerns 21 municipalities, since the fees for extraction of sand and gravel from local deposits are transferred to the budgets of local governments. The fees for mining rights are, at the same time, too volatile sources of income for local authorities to plan cost recovery on the basis of their forecast. If you look at the final objective, the coefficient will certainly have a positive effect on the fuller extraction of sand and gravel marshes, and the same material will be mined with less environmental impact. Promoting environmentally sustainable mining is one of the major objectives of the Environmental Charges Act. As a representative of the government, I certainly support the decision of the Committee on the Environment to conclude the first reading of the draft and to adopt it quickly as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U183	Thank you. Please, Urbo Vaarmann, question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U184	Thank you. Dear waitress, You said that this bill was sent to the coordination circle on 22 September. The representatives of the Cities Association and of the Municipalities Association were present in the Commission, and the question arose as to why it came to them so late and why so little time had been left for planning. This bill was stuck for a very long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U185	Thank you. It is difficult to tell why this draft only reached the coordination round on 22 September. But the fact is that since the coefficient should change from 1 January 2015, it was the time to send it to coordination at all. Of course, this could have been done earlier if possible. I believe that the Minister for the Environment will be able to explain this more clearly in Question Time or in response to an inquiry. Not knowing the exact circumstances, but looking at the logic of the legislative process, I would say that September was the last time the law was to be passed before the end of the year.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U186	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U187	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. It is quite well written in the explanatory memorandum about what the association of rural governments and the union of cities think of this draft. We are talking about more than 40 municipalities, and the amount contested by the Municipalities Association and the Cities Association is more than EUR 300000. For some municipalities, or rural municipalities, this is quite a lot of money. What is the government's message to these local authorities about this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U188	Thank you. I'm sure it's a legitimate concern. Of course, as a result of this change, the municipalities affected by this change will not receive any revenue. The amount of outstanding income is not clear because such a dull calculation has been made, the current fee is simply multiplied by two. If we look at the potential impact on businesses, they may say that they will not be mining again, and this effect may not then be in this amount. So it is not clear whether this effect is EUR 300000 or any other amount. It is extremely difficult to assess in advance. But since September, the municipalities have been able to take this into account. It has been known that the draft was sent to coordination and as a result the Riigikogu may decide that the coefficient will remain the same from 1 January. There are different values at stake here: on the one hand, mining of mineral resources in a certain way and, on the other hand, possible income for it. Now the bill has been put before you in this form. I hope that the Committee on the Environment has done enough groundwork to develop a fair position for a large hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U189	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much, Hanno Pevkur. I would like to ask Tõnis Kõiv, Member of the Environment Committee of the Chair, for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U190	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on the Environment discussed this two-point draft at two meetings: Monday, 1 December and Tuesday, 2 December. Here is a brief overview of the questions that emerged in this debate and the answers given to them. It is also important to note that a representative of the Association of Estonian Cities, a representative of the Association of Estonian Rural Governments, a representative of the Association of Estonian Mining Industries Enterprises and a representative of the Association of Estonian Construction Materials Producers and, of course, representatives of the Ministry of the Environment took part in the discussion on 1 December. Without wishing to repeat the report that the Minister has already given on the draft, I will say a few words. This is a very environmentally friendly draft that changes the coefficient. In the case of sand and gravel mining below the groundwater level, the coefficient for calculating the mineral mining right fee will continue to be 0,5 and will not become 1,0. The coefficient is necessary to encourage the extraction of sand and gravel even in the case of mountain reserves where sand and gravel are below the groundwater level and are extracted from the water inside without lowering the groundwater level. Mining without lowering the level of groundwater or opening a new career to extract the same amount of sand and gravel, making use of existing ones, has a lower environmental impact. The lower environmental impact is reflected in a more complete field of mineral resources in both horizontal and vertical directions. If sand or gravel can be extracted from the water, new careers will not be opened to obtain the same amount of mineral resources, and this will certainly be environmentally sound. The vast majority of soil and landscapes will then remain unspoiled and mining will have no additional impact on the natural, social or economic environment. In the Committee on the Environment, we received a long and comprehensive overview of the subject. A number of issues concerned the financial impact of the draft, in particular the impact on local authorities. Here, too, the question was whether local authorities had found out in time that the coefficient would not rise to 1 or whether there was a plan not to double it, and whether they had been able to take this into account in any way. The following answer was given. First of all, the current system is such that it is possible to predict how much mining is being carried out, but it is not possible to know exactly in advance. The fee shall be calculated on a quarterly basis, i.e. by the 17th of the month of the end of the first quarter, the calculation shall be made and then the amount shall be determined. Thus, the payment of the mining right to the municipality is very volatile, i.e. a volatile source of income, not a guaranteed additional income. That's how you take it. In addition, when it came to the question of whether the municipal associations were aware of the plan not to increase the coefficient in the context of budgetary negotiations with the country, it should be stressed that the negotiations took place earlier and that the draft, according to which the coefficient would not double, came to the coordination circle later. Obviously, it is not possible to negotiate or notify something that does not yet exist as a proposal or a form that can be taken into account. They asked why, years ago, such a regulation was introduced that the coefficient is temporarily 0.5 and then it becomes 1. The reason was that at the time it was not very clear how to take into account groundwater levels, nor was there such good knowledge of the potential environmental impact. This knowledge has now improved, the capacity to assess groundwater levels has increased, and the development of the 2016+ Framework Programme for Environmental Charges has revealed the need for a factor of 0.5 to remain, which should not be abolished. It has taken longer than expected for the framework scheme on environmental charges and the resulting bill to be drawn up. It was therefore necessary to remove this specific two-point part of the framework plan and submit it as a separate draft so that it could, if possible, be processed this year and enter into force on 1 January 2015. The municipal associations submitted their written comments on the draft in October 2014. The Cities Association has complained that they were not informed of this change until the draft had entered the coordination circle. The Association of Estonian Rural Governments has announced that it is not clear to them whether a coefficient of 0.5 or 1.0 has been taken into account in the budget negotiations between the government commission and the local government associations. At its first meeting on Monday, 1 December, the Committee on the Environment came to the understanding that it was necessary to discuss the draft once more and to do so on the next day. On Tuesday, 2 December, another discussion of the Committee on the Environment took place in which, in addition to several officials, Mati Raidma, Minister for the Environment, was also present. There was a brief debate, where the main concern was in fact not related to this bill, but to the draft law on future environmental charges. They discussed when it would come and what would happen to it. The Commission proposed to send a draft of 778 on the agenda for the plenary session by 10 December and to propose to close the first reading of the draft 778. The first was a consensual decision, but the second was voted: 6 members of the Commission were in favour, no one opposed and 2 abstentions. Thirdly, it was decided to propose a deadline of 11 December 2014 at 13:00 for the submission of draft 778 amendments. This decision was also consensual. Fourthly, it was decided to appoint a speaker to act as rapporteur for the draft. The decisions on the draft have been taken with this, and my review has been given. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U191	Thank you. Most of the decisions were consensual, but there is still at least one question. Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U192	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! It must be said from the outset that I was not in your committee at the time of these consensual decisions. I am working in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and because of the work of this committee, I have a question. Did the Committee on the Environment discuss this aspect of the change in the local governments' income base that there may be a small barrage, because the time of notice of the change in the income base was too short? Can we not have a situation where, under the order of the judicial authorities, we must ever return to this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U193	Thank you, good questioner! When the Committee on Constitutional Affairs looks at such matters, it makes its own decision on how these things could be, but the Committee on the Environment is always good at seeking advice on such matters. The Environment Committee has asked for a written opinion from the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu and the final conclusion of the analysis received from this department is that this change does not have a significant impact on the stability of the municipal funding system. The Legal and Analytical Department considers that this is not a change that has a significant impact on the stability of the local government financial system, and therefore it is not a breach of the Constitution either.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U194	Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U195	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Commission. However, I will come back to my previous question. The minister was also invited to speak about the dates when he received the letter. For the sake of the verbatim report, perhaps you will tell us when the Association of Estonian Rural Governments and the Association of Estonian Cities were notified exactly. It wasn't September, it was still much later. Maybe you can say the exact date.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U196	Thank you, good questioner, Member of the Commission. The table of comments and proposals presented in the co-ordination of the draft Act amending the Environmental Charges Act shows that the Association of Estonian Rural Governments responded and submitted its position on 13 October and the Association of Estonian Cities on 14 October. These dates are clearly here. It can be seen that the Estonian Association of Rural Governments received a letter on 19 September, and somewhere here was also a paper from the Estonian Union of Cities. I can't find it right now, but one of them got information on September 19th. These letters are probably sent at the same time, so the other one received the letter at the same time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U197	Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U198	Thank you, Mr President. I can ask you one more time by exercising my right under the Rules of Procedure. Good waitress! I agree that this amendment is necessary. I also agree with the outcome of the analysis by the Legal and Analytical Department that this is obviously not a major change. But this thing also has another aspect, this time factor, when the change is announced. I know that the business community, through its representative organisation, has approached the Riigikogu that there should be a gap between the adoption of the decision and the entry into force of the decision for at least six months. Are the municipalities worse?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U199	Thank you, good questioner! I will first say that I have found the paper of the Estonian Union of Cities. Their letter also dated 19 September 2014. However, if you answer the principled question of a good colleague, you have to say that this was in the debate in the Commission, that obviously the initiator of the draft has also seen here, let us say, a problem. After all, there are quite a few pages in the draft explanatory memorandum devoted to why this draft is coming in such a short period of time, why such a decision is needed, what is the positive environmental impact of this decision, which is not a dispute, and what is the minor, insignificant impact of this decision on the income base of local governments, how a small part of the municipalities and how it is affected. Moreover, it has been stressed here that there is a clear link between mining and the payment of this remuneration. If it's mined, it's paid. The purpose of this fee is to compensate for the impact of mining on the local community or to take any mitigating measures. The logical conclusion is that if no mining is carried out, the fee will not be collected, but there will also be no need for these measures. So here too, the initiator of the draft has seen a certain obviously softening connection to why this time is so short. But time is always short.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U200	Good waitress, questions haven't been exhausted yet. Väino Linde, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U201	Thank you, Mr President. Just a good waitress! In further drilling, I ask whether the committee was also discussing the time by which this bill could have been passed by law in the Riigikogu and, in good case, announced by the Head of State, and at what time this law should be in force. How long could this period be, two days, two weeks, two months, two years?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U202	Thank you, my good colleague, for the question. The Committee on the Environment will not meet until tomorrow at one o'clock to discuss this draft once the first reading is completed today. However, given the deadline for tabling amendments, which is already tomorrow, and assuming what decision might be taken, the Committee on the Environment will probably still have the intention of sending this draft to plenary for the second and third reading next week, so that it will also be adopted next week, in December. The proceedings will then come out of the hands of the Riigikogu. But the aim is for the law to enter into force on 1 January 2015, i.e. before the next financial year begins.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U203	Kalev Kallemets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U204	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear waitress, I have a question on the same subject. There aren't many days left until the end of the year, and next week we'll have the last of this year. Have you had a debate in the Commission to push this deadline for implementation somewhat further, for example, towards the middle of next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U205	Thank you for your question. No, the materials that I have at my disposal do not show such a debate. The originator's goal and desire is to avoid jumping up and down like this, so if the coefficient has been 0.5 years, now he'd jump to 1.0 for some short period, or double, and then we'd lower it to 0.5 again. As I have said once, the 2016+ framework programme for environmental charges provides that this coefficient will continue to be 0.5 instead of 1.0. If it were now 1.0 for a few days, a week or a month, it would be relatively unnecessary to sway within a short period of time, which would certainly not have a positive impact on local authorities or businesses, not to mention perhaps a particular management failure. I don't think it's good for the environment, either.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U206	More questions, please! No, it's not. Thank you very much to the waitress for her presentation and answers. No further questions. Now, good representatives of the political groups, it is possible to negotiate. Please! There's no call. The position of the commission is that the first reading of the draft should be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 778 amendments on 11 December at 13:00. The first reading is closed and the sixth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U207	Let's move on to item seven. The first reading of the draft Act 787 on Support for Entrepreneurship and Amending the National Guarantee of Loans, initiated by the Government of the Republic, begins. I ask Anne Sulling, Minister of Foreign Trade and Entrepreneurship of the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U208	Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased to present to you the draft law amending the Act on Support for Entrepreneurship and State Guarantee for Loans, which was adopted by the Riigikogu on 20 November. This is a draft law whose main objective is to lay down the types of support for entrepreneurship and the principles of state support. The current law identifies direct payments, loans and public guarantees as the type of support for business. The aim of amending the law is to diversify and modernise these instruments. Financial measures, including guarantees and loans, have also been promoted in Estonia, in addition to direct business support, but much less attention has been paid to the equity financing of companies. As a first amendment, the draft further introduces a new type of support for entrepreneurship, i.e. investment in investment funds, which in turn invest in companies' equity capital. The state will not invest directly in companies' equity capital, only through funds. The aim of the amendment is to provide companies with more diverse funding opportunities in the current rather banking-driven financial market. A significant gap in the financing of companies' equity capital compared to neighbouring countries can be observed. Private and venture capital investments in Estonia accounted for 0.1% of GDP in 2012, which was six times lower than Sweden's respective figure and 2.5 times lower than the European average. The state does not compete with private fund managers but develops the whole market in a comprehensive manner. This is the case in most developed countries in the world. In addition to pension funds, the development of the venture and private capital market offers an opportunity to invest in Estonia. Between 2015 and 2020 it is planned to allocate EUR 60 million from the EU structural funds to KredEx for the creation of a fund of funds that invests in early-stage funds, which in turn invest in the equity capital of small and medium-sized enterprises. The draft does not exclude other fund investments in the future, which will contribute to improving financing opportunities. The second amendment increases the maximum national guarantee to 80% of the loan amount. In the current law, the maximum state guarantee is 75% of the loan amount. However, the European Union's state aid rules allow for 80% of the state guarantee, and the change will equal the competitive position of Estonian companies to that of other Member States. A higher level of public guarantee is particularly important for smaller and start-ups, which are more difficult to provide adequate guarantees to the bank. KredEx provides guarantees only if the bank assesses the company's business project as eligible for loan. The amendment does not imply direct costs for the State, as the existing capital of KredEx is currently sufficient to cover losses beyond normal levels. It is possible for KredEx to apply the guarantee limit differently for different services, given the impact of the change on KredEx's risks as well as on the investments of borrowers and the achievement of public policy objectives. The third amendment grants KredEx the right to acquire, in order to protect the interests arising from the lending, a holding in the companies that have received the loan, as well as to dispose of the holding, without applying the provisions of subsection 78 (1) (3) of the State Assets Act, according to which, in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Act, the founder's rights may be decided by the State Foundation to acquire or dispose of a qualifying holding in the company or to participate in the formation of other foundations only under the authority of the Government of the Republic. KredEx acquires a stake to intervene in the management of the company and protect its interests as a lender. The acquisition of holdings for this purpose remains rather exceptional, but a rapid response is needed in the circumstances where it becomes necessary. KredEx will sell the stake back after the loan has been repaid. The amendment therefore provides an additional opportunity to finance certain projects and to protect KredEx's interests as a lender. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U209	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U210	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. There were two thoughts in this hall over the last three-quarters of an hour. Firstly, the Estonian economy did or is doing well. Secondly, the state budget does not grow as fast or as much as it should. If, on the one hand, the Estonian economy is doing well, but the state budget does not grow as quickly as many people would like, what is the fundamental contradiction between these two ideas?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U211	Entrepreneurs are responsible for creating growth. This legislative amendment, which we have planned, is also intended to encourage entrepreneurship financing, so that entrepreneurship has more opportunities to mobilise financial resources and thus support both start-ups and growing enterprises. This will be done precisely for the purpose you mentioned, so that economic growth is greater.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U212	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U213	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. In a sense, KredEx risks the collateral it provides to the undertakings. If the company goes bankrupt or fails, can KredEx itself be the initiator of bankruptcy proceedings?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U214	KredEx naturally takes risks and the state is a guarantee in this respect. If you look at the percentage of loans or guarantees that could get sour, in the case of business loans, this percentage is 4% to 5%, i.e. 1 loan out of 20. The goal of KredEx is still to stay positive, and it has succeeded. If we look at the results that KredEx has had over time, we can see that he has had two years with a negative sign, but now KredEx is a plus of five million euros.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U215	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U216	Thank you. I'm gonna ask you more specific. If these loans go sour on KredEx, wouldn't KredEx be the one who's going to demand them back?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U217	If the loans go bad, KredEx will of course intervene. For example, the same proposal, which is the third point,'mezzanine' financing, is intended to enable KredEx to intervene quickly. He or she will go to a company in which he or she participates in order to take the necessary decisions. It's called a mezzanine loan.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U218	Minister, there are no further questions. Thank you! Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, member of the Economic Commission, Kalev Kallemetsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U219	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft was discussed in the Committee on Economic Affairs in the 10th Sp. This is indeed a very important draft for the Estonian economy, the aim of which is to revive the Estonian capital market and to include the assets of Estonian pension funds in the growth of Estonian companies, continuing the path already started. Estonia's private and venture capital investments accounted for only 0.1% of GDP in 2012, which is six times lower than Sweden's respective figure and 2.5 times lower than the EU average. This is not suitable for Estonia as an e-governance tiger. We already created the Baltic Innovation Fund with Latvia and Lithuania in 2012 through the European Investment Fund, contributing EUR 20 million. This fund will invest in 2013. Over the course of 2008, EUR 100 million for private and venture capital investment funds, to which funds are added from pension funds. This autumn, the investment mandate was distributed to fund managers such as BaltCap, Livonia and Ambient Sound Investments. In addition to EUR 15 million from the Baltic Innovation Fund, one of them has added EUR 55 million from pension funds, and the first specific investment in an enterprise with international development potential is under preparation. So if we are dealing with KredEx's new measure here today, the process of realising it as a real investment and a financial injection into the economy will take two years. However, it is important that we take these steps today. I'll get another parallel. Since 1995, Suomen Teollisuussijoitus Oy operates in the Republic of Finland, through which the State has invested in dozens and dozens of companies. The investment portfolio is EUR 793 million. The investment is also direct, for example a separate mining company programme that has invested EUR 30 million in equity in eight companies. The main investment will be through private funds. There are dozens of funds that leverage private capital and boost the capital market in Finland. That's a good example. The new measure created by the draft is intended for both start-ups and medium-sized companies. In the first cases, the focus is similar to that already initiated by the Development Fund, through which 15 investments in companies amounting to EUR 11 million were made between 2007 and 2013. However, the new measure is to provide fund management to private operators and to a significant extent to involve private capital. If a mandate is given to a fund manager, such as BaltCap, Livonia or ASI, 30 to 40% of the private capital of pension funds or other investors will be mobilised, i.e. State money will be leveraged. However, the fund manager makes the investment decisions itself. Alongside direct grants, loans and guarantees, the state will set up a fund of funds with a new funding facility and will allow to mobilise the quite large funds of pension funds held by Estonian banks and insurance companies. Last year 27.5 million euros of early venture capital investments were made in Estonian companies. But it's very little. Compared to the average volumes in the European Union, the volume of our venture capital investments, as well as private equity, is relatively small. Unlike Finland, Sweden and other countries, we do not have dozens and dozens of private equity funds that can effectively fund these good ideas, whether they come from the 'Adjugate Hunt', Garage48 or other idea generators and university programs. Unfortunately, we do not have such a support structure, and this draft law intends to create it. The Minister mentioned that it was planned to implement up to EUR 60 million of EU structural funds in this fund of funds. We are not spending Structural Funds money, but we are creating a new value that, by realising in the future, already outside specific investments, can be further invested and used and increased. This is, in my opinion, a very important message for all future players who want to be worthy of the excellent Estonians so far. I mean Jaan Tallinn, Toivo Annus, Ahti Heinla, Kristo Käärmann, David Hinrikus and Hardi Meybaum. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the first reading and set a deadline of 29 December for the submission of amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U220	Thank you. There's a question for you. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U221	Thank you. Good colleague! We have heard that using KredEx's money is very difficult, it is difficult to obtain. But maybe that's just a few people's opinions. You tried to talk about pension funds. Only a small part of it is used for investments, only 6%, but in Lithuania this figure is 30%. What's the difference? The distance is 250 to 300 kilometres, but the investment gap is large.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U222	You're absolutely right. If I am not mistaken, only 6% of the volume of Estonian pension funds worth nearly two billion euros has been invested in Estonian bonds or shares. One reason is that our stock exchange and companies' quoted securities are relatively small. This market is small and illiquid even compared to the Vilnius Stock Exchange. Pension fund rules do not allow a higher proportion of the funds to be invested in small Tallinn stock exchange or Tallinn OMX companies. Another reason that we need to consider important is that, as fund managers have tried to explain, it is important, alongside the rules, that the state, with soft measures, with explanations, draws the attention of the pension funds to the same thing you pointed out. But the most important thing is the question of what to do. This measure, which we are currently discussing in concrete terms, would allow for an additional EUR 30 to 40 million of pension funds to be mobilised. 30.40 million of nearly two billion is not a high percentage, but by creating these opportunities we can increase the amount of money that pension funds place on the Estonian market.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U223	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 787 amendments at 12 noon on 29 December. The first reading is closed and the seventh item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U224	Let's move on to item eight. The first reading of the Gambling Act, the Media Services Act and the Amendment Act 747 initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. It is a great honour to ask the Minister of Finance, Maris Lauri, for a speech chair in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U225	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The aim of amending the Gambling Act, the Media Services Act and the Advertising Act is to complement measures aimed at protecting addicted players, reduce the administrative burden on supervisory authorities and organisers and clarify the regulation of the advertising market. First, changes are made which make the protection of players with addictive problems more effective. In 2009, a self-exclusivity list was created to limit the possibilities of playing in casinos. More than 3,000 people have taken advantage of this opportunity. The changes also extend the impact of the self-exclusion list to tots and classic lotteries. Extending the scope of the self-exclusion list to prediction games and lotteries is one of the most effective measures to protect addicts. From now on, when registering, a person must state whether he or she wishes to limit his or her participation in casino games, betting games, lotteries or all these games. The deletion from the self-exclusion list will also change. If previously the person was automatically removed from the list after the end of the limitation period, which could be between six months and three years, then the player must now submit an application to the Estonian Tax and Customs Board to delete him from the list after the limitation period. Deletion shall take place within two working days of the submission of the application. In order to implement the self-exclusivity list, it is necessary to check the identity of the customers on the basis of the image document for the sellers of sports forecasting and lottery tickets from 2016. The procedure is based on the principle of minimality, i.e. the buyer's data is only used to verify the status of the self-exclusion list. Data shall not be stored for any other purpose. The identification requirement does not concern fast lotteries or scrap cards. They can continue to be purchased without checking whether the buyer is on a self-exclusivity list. Secondly, the regulation of gambling advertising is regulated. Like a number of European countries, such as Great Britain, Denmark, Belgium, Finland, Sweden and elsewhere, we also have an addictive gradation. The most limited are the promotions of games of chance or casino, less lotteries and games of skill. A warning text will become a mandatory part of all advertisements. The amendments are necessary to create legal clarity and will end the supervisory disputes created by the possibility of a broad interpretation of the provisions in force. The latter aims to reduce the administrative burden on the supervisory authority and the organisers. The quarterly paper reporting of the organisers will be abolished and the information will be forwarded to the Estonian Tax and Customs Board via the electronic accounting and control system. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U226	You have at least one question. Kalev Kallemets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U227	President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. I believe you will remember that when we worked on this draft in the Committee on Economic Affairs, we noticed that conventional lotteries were also included in the self-exclusion list. This means that in case of purchase of a regular lottery ticket, the person must register this purchase with an ID card. I'm sure you'll remember that raised questions. Have officials given you any further explanations during these days as to why participation in the regular lottery should be included in this self-exclusion list, or are we waiting for a second-reading debate in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U228	First of all, it should be noted that a very large number of people buy lottery tickets online, which means that they register automatically and are controlled. Secondly, it must be taken into account that there are a large number of lottery participants, estimated at 43% of people aged 15 to 74. Studies have indicated that around 3% of them may be pathological players, or those with addiction problems. This means that there are approximately 13,000 of these people. This is a significant number, so 13000 people could be given attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U229	Thomas Tõniste.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U230	Good manager! Good waitress! I'll ask you what's next. Doesn't it seem a little weird that we advertise lotteries and invite everyone to play, maybe create more gambling addicts, but then we offer them the chance to get out of the game? Is money more important than human health in this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U231	As I said, lottery players are quite numerous now, with 43% of the population analysed. Extending advertising opportunities and thus increasing the potential number of players, it can really happen that more addicts emerge. But we can also assume that those who have a tendency to addiction are already playing. This means that potential influxes are not likely to be people with addiction problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U232	Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U233	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The explanatory memorandum states that people are being directed towards so-called soft games. However, each advertisement still has only one function: to get more customers. This certainly also applies to amendments to the Gambling Act and the Advertising Act. So, when we say black and white, do we hope that the people of Estonia will play more gambling, or is it the goal that if they start playing the lottery, they don't go to the casino? What's the basic idea, getting the money or getting the crowd?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U234	Thank you for your question. These amendments do not lighten the current rules. The rules applicable to the most dangerous games, or casino games, remain the same, they do not get any less relaxed. The rules on lottery, or less risky gambling, will be lighter. This means that people may start to notice softer games alongside more risky games, and if they decide to play gambling, they will probably choose the softer option and not fall into the hands of more risky games.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U235	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U236	Thank you. Dear Minister, I have a question about the self-exclusion list. How is the data on that list stored and who does it? Is it possible to use this data for purposes other than the free will of a person to exclude himself from gambling? For example, if a person applies for a job or even applies for permission to access a state secret, his or her background, what he or she does during his or her leisure time, will be examined. Is it possible to learn that one person or another has entered a self - exclusion list?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U237	As I mentioned in my speech, the self-exclusion list is not used for any other purpose. There is no danger that this data will be used in any other way.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U238	Kalev Kallemets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U239	Minister, thank you very much. You said up to 13,000 people could have a lottery addiction problem. I know a lot of things that people can deal with once a week or some other regularity and that can be characterised as a certain addiction. But I'm very interested in how much the problem of addiction to lottery has been studied. Is it already considered an addiction problem when a person regularly buys lottery tickets? Has this problem been studied more deeply in lottery games?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U240	The survey looked at the exposure of Estonian residents to gambling in 2012. It analysed how often people have these contacts and how much they are addicted to these games. They looked at how much they buy lottery tickets, how much they spend on it, and whether they could give up this purchase if they wanted to. If a person buys a lottery ticket every week, that doesn't mean he's addicted. Dependence arises when a person is unable to give up this purchase, when he makes a lot of these purchases for a very large amount of money and gets into financial problems. It was a definition of addiction.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U241	Thomas Tõniste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U242	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Let me get this straight: if, for example, we start advertising beer drinking, we take a positive step towards the fact that wine drinkers stop drinking vodka, and this is how we solve alcoholism problems? This example seems to be passed on to the issue of gambling. Can such a comparison be made?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U243	This comparison is somewhat arbitrary and inaccurate. Alcohol is certainly more addictive and has serious consequences. Gambling addiction has fewer people, but the consequences may in some cases be more severe. For this reason, self-exclusion lists are justified. But it could also be discussed whether to put beer drinkers on the list. I guess we're not all willing to do that. Here it is also a little bit about the principle of proportionality. I don't think alcohol and gambling can be identified.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U244	Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U245	Thank you. I am sorry to hear that you do not see the risk of a draft currently being dealt with in so far as it significantly liberalises the advertising of gambling. I will, however, continue the thinking of Thomas Tõnis. We have a Green Paper on alcohol policy adopted in the country, which is very seriously dealing with the issue of advertising for young people, lifestyle promotions and everything that could show too much alcohol to young people. It's just because when you're used to lean alcohol, you're gonna go over hard. It's the same with gambling. When we practice people with lottery games, we keep flicking them like it's a place to get easy money and a lot of fun, that's what it looks like. Don't you think that's immoral?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U246	I would point out that the advertising of gambling is not much less relaxed. In particular, the limits shall be specified. There have been a lot of disputes about whether we have so-called introductions, brand ads, or whether their actual content is that people start playing these games. Above all, this is a clear line, not a call for people to play. There are very clear restrictions on where and what kind of advertising can be made, so there will certainly not be much more advertising. In this I agree with you that alcohol consumption must be limited at a reasonable rate, but it must not go over the edge either.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U247	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U248	Thank you, George Ratas! Good minister! You described the effects of this law in such a way that thanks to the relaxation of the advertising restrictions on lotteries and lotteries, those gamblers who would otherwise be playing riskier gambling would now play so-called softer games. But how do you explain that you foresee an increase in the amount of gambling tax in the explanatory memorandum to this same bill? How can that be? I mean, you still think that the number of gamblers is increasing as a result of easier advertising.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U249	The increase in gambling does not necessarily mean that the number of addicts is increasing, as I explained earlier. We can assume that those people who have more serious problems are already addicted. That's what self-exclusion lists are for. These lists now extend to other forms of gambling that are not currently covered by them. So people who have addiction problems can be better kept away from these games. If those people who don't have problems and probably don't even get into trouble play any more gambling, I don't see the problem. When problems arise, they can be dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U250	Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U251	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. It is specifically stated here that it is not considered necessary to impose this restriction on express lotteries or so-called scrap cards. Aren't you afraid they're gonna buy more and go the same way as alcohol, that they're gonna buy less alcohol, or they're gonna use another option?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U252	Of course, this cannot be ruled out. However, it is now apparent from the analysis that high-speed lottery is very small amounts and that at least for the time being this dependence has not been observed to a very significant extent.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U253	Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U254	Thank you. Dear Minister, Your answer to my question made me a little surprised. You said that this was not a relaxation of advertising conditions, but merely a clarification of borders. I recall the coalition agreement between the Socialists and the Reform Party and the sources of their promises. It was planned that the increase in the volume of advertising related to Eesti Loto and the relaxation of advertising conditions would generate additional revenue of three million euros per year. Is it really only by clarifying the terms of advertising that an additional EUR 3 million per year can be made available to the Treasury?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U255	If more people start to play, and because of the increase in advertising, it can be assumed that this will happen because advertising is generally effective, then the revenues from gambling tax will probably also increase. However, as I have already said, we can assume that new players do not have addiction problems or do not have addiction problems. Those people who have addiction problems, we avoid playing with prescribed measures.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U256	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U257	Thank you. Minister, you have very exciting views. First of all, you assume that if this bill you are presenting here becomes a law, the number of gambling players will increase. Secondly, you said that you would not see a problem if this figure increased. I ask you, then, what good do you see in this for the people of Estonia? What will be better for the Estonian people if the number of players in Estonia increases? What happiness does that bring to our yard? Why are you here today with this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U258	As I said, this law has three objectives. I'll read them again. First, to complement the measures aimed at protecting addicted players, second, to reduce the administrative burden on the supervisory authority and organisers, thirdly, to clarify the regulation of the advertising market. That is why these amendments have been tabled. If there are more players, it doesn't necessarily mean anything bad. No, it doesn't! This is not uniquely and beneficially linked, all the more so as the amendments complement the measures that specifically apply to addicted players. I don't see anything wrong with a person playing a little lottery. If it doesn't cause addiction problems, why not?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U259	Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U260	Thank you. Dear Minister, I'm glad you don't know any casino addicts. I'm afraid I'm honored to know them. I've seen people ruin their family life and lose their financial sense of security because of their addiction to casino or gambling. Your answers are still a little incomprehensible. We are planning a budget for the budget, the increase in income from gambling tax was adopted. In any case, advertising increases the emergence of gambling addiction. You, on the other hand, have given the opposite answers. How does this clarification of advertising conditions still reduce the number of casino addicts?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U261	I'll explain it again. Advertising will certainly increase the number of players. But at the same time, if the restrictions imposed on people with addiction problems are made more precise and stronger, it can be assumed that the number of gamers with addiction problems will not increase, but the number of gamblers who do not have addiction problems. One factor in the increase in the amount of gambling tax is certainly that people's incomes are increasing and they simply spend a little more on these games. I don't see any contradiction here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U262	Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U263	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Where does addiction begin? You said addicted people can stay away from playing games. But there are new people who are gonna play gambling. When will these people be considered addicts? New people come to the gambling market because of advertising, and they become addicts at one point.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U264	Surely not every player becomes an addict. I think most players don't become addicted, most people can control and monitor themselves and they can't be addicts. Those who become addicts may be able to go to treatment with the help of friends and relatives and put themselves on a self-exclusion list. At present, they can write down a ban on playing in a casino for six months, for example, but after six months they will automatically be off the list. They're gonna go back to the casino and straighten out the money, and in a week, they're gonna be able to put themselves on the list again, and it's like it's okay. But the damage has already been done. According to the new regulations, they put themselves on the list, but they will not be removed from the list until they write a statement to that effect. It's a barrier. Another barrier is that they can't go to make bets, lotteries or anything else. They're not gonna find a replacement.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U265	Peter Laurson, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U266	Thank you. From your answer, I realized that if an alcohol addict is kept away from alcohol, alcohol promotions are still being made, and advertising creates new alcohol users, you think they will never become addicts. I don't think so. What makes you say that? Why can't those who get an ad to gamble never get addicts?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U267	No doubt it cannot be ruled out that people who are not currently gambling can become addicts when they become addicts. But I assume those with addiction problems are already playing. There are far fewer people at risk of addiction among non-players. There won't be that many more. But when such people do, they can put themselves on a self-exclusivity list, which is much more stringent than it is now, and we assume that they can get rid of this problem more quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U268	Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U269	Thank you. Here's a long list of places where advertising is forbidden. It says the front and back of a newspaper and a magazine, unless this ad is published with a sponsoring notice. But now the news often announces that someone won such or such a sum or that they will draw such or different amounts. Now, what about reporting these victories and all this?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U270	I'm sorry, but I can't find an answer to that question quickly. We'll find a place later.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U271	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U272	Thank you. Minister of Finance! I think that if 13,000 people are addicted to casino and gambling, it's a state problem. It's really a disease. For a few years, I have been working on creating conditions that would help families with many tears because a large amount of their family's money is going nowhere. These people need to be treated. There are non-profit organisations and health centres involved in this in Estonia. There aren't many of them, but they need some state support. My question has to do with this. When you discussed next year's budget, did you allocate something to them, or does it all get blown up again?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U273	I'm afraid I can't answer your question right now. I didn't imagine a question like that would come up. I'm trying to look into it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U274	Minister, thank you for your presentation and your answers. No further questions. I would like to ask Kalle Palling, Member of the Economic Commission for the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U275	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, who have stayed in the Chamber! The Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu discussed the draft law amending the Gambling Act, the Media Services Act and the Advertising Act 747 on Monday, 1 December. Mr Maris Lauri, Minister of Finance, Sören Meius, Adviser to the Department of Business and Accounting Policy, and the lawyer of the same department, Taivo Põrk, who gave an overview of the contents and objectives of the draft, answered the questions and provided further explanations. Here is a brief overview of the debate in the Commission. First, it was asked whether the advertising provisions also concerned the online advertising of games of chance. The answer was that everything that concerns self-exclusion lists also concerns the Internet. The general provisions on advertising also apply to online advertising. It also requested clarification as to which advertising is permitted under the law and whether the law distinguishes between advertising and information. In response, it was said that games are treated differently, based on the likelihood of a risk of addiction. The least risky are lotteries and participating games, the most risky are casino games, and sports predictions are at an intermediate risk level. The restrictions on gambling advertising are the toughest. There are more opportunities to promote sports predictions, such as sponsoring notices. Lottery advertising restrictions are the least restrictive, which means that advertising should not be limited to minors and childcare facilities. If it was only possible to advertise the lottery before, during or after broadcasts, it is now prohibited to do so only during children's programmes. As it is difficult to distinguish between advertising and information, information is excluded from the law. Next, there was an interest in asking for an ID card to participate in the games, how the presentation of the ID card affects the purchase of the ticket, and how these data are collected, stored and used. As the Minister mentioned earlier in this speech chair, it is necessary to ask for an ID-card in order to make sure that the buyer is not on a self-exclusivity list. This applies to the classic lottery (Bingo Loto, Viking Lotto, Keno Loto and Eurojackpot) and not to the scraping cards. The database checks the person's name to determine if he or she is on the self-exclusion list. The Estonian Loto can create a customer information system based on data, which is not regulated in any way by law. The state does not collect data about playing. They also asked whether someone else could be included in the self - exclusion list, for example, as an additional punishment. The answer was that this is not possible now, but it could be thought of in the future in order to contain chronic debtors. The question arose as to why to expand advertising opportunities when it promotes play. In this context, the objectives of Estonian Loto were asked. The expanded ability to put yourself on the lottery self-exclusivity list reduces the possibilities for addicts to play, and registration with a document tends to discourage gambling. New players are not likely to be in a situation where they need to be included in the self-exclusivity list. The aims of the Estonian Loto are not changed by this law. The aim is to attract people to play softer games and collect money for the Gambling Tax Council. The extension of advertising opportunities was important to draw a clearer limit on which advertising is allowed and which is not allowed to reduce disputes between the Consumer Protection Board and game organisers. The last one was asked to comment on the Estonian Loto's proposal to criminalise the settlement games. The Ministry's answer was that the settlement games have not yet been criminalized, but this should be done, and such a proposal has been made to the Ministry of Justice. The following is a question of procedural proposals. First of all, it was proposed that this draft be placed on the plenary agenda for today. We also propose that the first reading be completed and that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 10 working days, i.e. 29 December at 12 noon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U276	Thank you. There's a question for you. Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U277	Thank you, good manager. Good colleague! You also mentioned Estonian Loto several times in your presentation. Was there any discussion in the Commission that the profits made by Estonian Loto could be redirected back to society, for example, to some percentage of it for the development of Estonian sport?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U278	I have realised that much of this money goes as a gambling tax to promote Estonian sport, which is already being dealt with. However, the distribution of profits between sport and other activities within the Commission was not mentioned. I don't have an exact picture of where and between whom this profit is exactly shared.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U279	More questions, please, good members of the Riigikogu! No, it's not. I thank the waitress! I see they want to negotiate. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Toomas Tõniste, representative of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, to the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U280	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, If you look at this bill, there's quite a lot of need and use here. However, as it turned out in today's discussion, very many people do not understand why it is necessary to promote what we do not really want to do. We don't want people to start gambling, more addicts, etc. But we create more gambling addicts, and then we offer them the chance to rule themselves out from among the gamblers. Indeed, we do not understand why we are doing this, whether the Estonian Loto leaders will receive a performance fee or whether the state is in so much need of money that it will look at where to scrape the money without choosing the funds. The main reason has been that we are trying to direct individuals towards so-called softer games. The softer nature of the lottery is mainly due to the longer interval between the contribution made and the finding out of the result. Another reason for winning is the share of re-routing stakes which are less than 60% on lotteries, while in other forms of gambling the usual rate is more than 90%. Lotteries are therefore distinguished from other forms of gambling by bringing more income to the state budget for each euro contributed. Once again, we come out to the main reason: to get the money. We collect money to treat it to addiction to gambling. Studies have shown that lottery players have about three times less addictive problems than other gambling players. Sounds nice. However, given the high popularity of lotteries, 3% of players who are likely to be pathological also make up a significant number, i.e. 13000 persons potentially in need of protection. There will be a parallel, which we all deplore, so that we can begin to promote the drinking of soft alcoholic beverages, such as beer, because the alcohol problem will be reduced if people no longer drink table wine. I don't think it's that simple, it's more trouble when we practice young people to play gambling or drink. It seemed that the state did not consider the problem if the number of gambling players increased. There was also a good reason that a self-exclusion list would solve all the problems. Finally, I would like to say that not everything can be measured in money. I really hope that after the first reading, the Ministry will be able to propose amendments. Perhaps the criticism that has sounded in this Chamber today will be carefully considered and the answers will be examined as to whether they were exhaustive. So maybe we don't have to be in this awkward situation at second reading where we kind of want people to play more gambling, for the simple reason that we get so much more money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U281	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 747 amendments at 12 noon on 29 December. The first reading is closed and the eighth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U282	Let's move on to item nine. The first reading of the draft Act amending the VAT Act and the VAT Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I would like to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister of Finance Maris Lauri!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U283	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The draft amending Act amending the VAT Act and the VAT Act excludes from the VAT Act the regulation of the reverse charge of precious stones. On 21 May 2014, the Riigikogu adopted an amendment to the VAT Act, which sought to extend the scope of reverse taxation in order to avoid tax fraud from 1 January 2015. EU law does not provide for the possibility of reverse charge of precious stones, but the Council of the European Union has the right, on a proposal from the European Commission, to grant derogations to the requesting Member State. Estonia submitted a request to the European Commission, but it was rejected. In the Commission's view, the implementation of the reverse charge on precious stones is not justified as the volume of fraud is small and conventional control measures should be sufficient to prevent them. The European Commission rejected Estonia's request for an exemption and, according to the VAT Directive of the European Union, Estonia has no right to introduce a reverse charge on precious stones as of 1 January 2015. Therefore, some editorial changes must be made to the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U284	Minister, there are questions for you. Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U285	Thank you. It's been a pretty big problem. What are the countermeasures now to prevent these frauds from happening?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U286	The Tax and Customs Board will need to carry out more checks and more careful analyses to detect fraudsters.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U287	Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U288	Thank you. The same reverse VAT rate is, if I'm not mistaken, for metal. Did the European Union not prohibit this?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U289	That's where it's allowed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U290	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Please present the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Finance Committee, Rannar Vassilyev.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U291	Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! The draft law amending the VAT Act and the VAT Act was discussed by the Committee on Finance on 2 December. Marek Uusküla, Head of the Department of Customs and Excise Policy of the Ministry of Finance, presented the draft as the initiator's representative. The purpose of the draft was just introduced here, so I will not dwell on it. Let me briefly outline the issues that were discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The first and most interesting topic was why it has taken a relatively long time for the draft to be submitted to the Riigikogu. The representative of the Ministry justified this with a long-standing round of coordination, but accepted the criticisms made by the Commission. Information or assumption on what would happen if this law did not enter into force on 1 January 2015 was also requested. In this case, anyone who sells and buys precious stones should take into account the new VAT regime, i.e. reverse charge. This would increase the administrative burden and, in any case, this law should be amended later, which would mean that invoices should be reversed. Information was requested on the number of companies operating in the precious stones sector. In response, the Committee on Monetary Affairs received a few dozen of them, most of them dealing with precious metals, and the stones are more of an additional area. The areas where the reverse charge procedure is used were specified. Under the Directive, it is foreseen for the provision of construction services, metal waste and CO2 quotas, as well as for precious metals and, for example, wood, derogations have been requested. The Commission decided to put the draft on the agenda by Wednesday 10 December, to propose that the first reading be closed (both decisions were consensual) and to propose that the deadline for the submission of amendments be set at 3 p.m. on 12 December (by 6 votes to 2 with 1 abstention). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U292	Thank you very much for this presentation. You have at least one question. Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U293	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I understand that it was necessary to request permission from the Council of the European Union to enforce this law adopted on 21 May. Can you specify why this authorisation was not requested earlier? So we shouldn't be changing the law here again.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U294	Thank you. That's a good question. At that time, it was assumed that the Commission could grant this authorisation, and consequently this law was adopted. After all, the aim is to combat tax fraud in a noble way. Unfortunately, it turned out that the hopes that the Ministry of Finance had at the time were not fulfilled and that permission did not come. In October, the Commission received information that reverse charge would not be accepted as such by the Commission. The Commission's own procedure also took a long time. As far as I know, this application was filed even before the law was passed in the Riigikogu. So this process has been quite lengthy.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U295	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U296	I have another question. Are precious metals and gemstones, then, a single pan-European register to which they are all entered? Does the Estonian register differ in any way from that of other countries of the European Union, or are they all exactly the same?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U297	I cannot say this because this was not discussed in the committee and I do not have such detailed information myself. I have not, frankly, studied either the Estonian register or the European register.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U298	Mr President of the Commission, thank you. No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? I don't see any requests. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 793 amendments on 12 December at 15. The first reading is closed and the ninth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U299	Let's move on to the tenth item on the agenda. First reading of Bill 794 of the Tax Exchange Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Minister of Finance Maris Lauri, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U300	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Tax Exchange Act aims to bring national law into line with the Tax Exchange Agreement with the United States, ratified in June, and to create prerequisites for the implementation of the new EU and OECD tax exchange standards. The purpose of the exchange of information is to reduce the possibilities for taxable persons in the United States of America to hide income and to evade taxes. This concerns us because if the financial institution does not provide the requested information to the United States, 30% of the payments to that financial institution will be withheld in the United States (it is a penalty). Like other European Union countries, Estonia entered into an agreement with the United States of America, the so-called FATCA agreement, to meet the requirements of FATCA. Estonia undertook to collect the information requested by the United States of America from the Estonian financial institutions and to forward it to the United States as a collection. In exchange, we receive information about the accounts of Estonian tax residents in the United States and the assurance that the United States will not keep 30% of payments to Estonian financial institutions. In order to bring national law into line with the FATCA Agreement, a new law on the exchange of information in tax matters is created. The integration of international rules on automatic tax exchange into the new law makes them unambiguously understood by taxpayers, financial institutions and the supervising Tax and Customs Board. There will also be a presumption that the new EU-OECD standards for tax exchange, based on the FATCA, will be adopted next year. The law needs to be adopted this year so that all Estonian financial institutions can meet the new reporting period starting on 1 January on a uniform and clear basis. Finally, it is important to stress that the Tax Exchange Act does not create any new tax liability or increase the tax liability of any person complying with tax laws. The FATCA Agreement and, more generally, any exchange of information in the field of taxation aim only at reducing cross-border tax evasion. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U301	Minister, thank you. There are no questions. Aivar Sõerdi, member of the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu speech chair, please present!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U302	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft was discussed twice by the Committee on Monetary Affairs before the first reading: 2 and 9 December. The Commission was informed of the content of the draft and answered questions from the members of the committee by Lemmi Oro, Head of the Tax Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, and Marko Talur, Head of the same department. Given that the draft came to the Riigikogu proceedings only last week, and the date of entry into force requested by the initiator, which the Minister also emphasised should be 1 January, a number of questions raised by the members of the committee related to the delay in initiating the proceedings and the possible consequences of later entry into force. What happens if the law does not enter into force on 1 January, what problems have been caused by current practice and what are the problems if the law enters into force a month or two later? Initiating the draft at the right time was entangled in a dispute between ministries, in particular the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance on data protection issues. The initiators of the draft act stressed the need for the law to be enforced as soon as possible, as the Act on the ratification of the agreement on the exchange of tax data with the United States entered into force already in the summer. The website of the Ministry of Finance contains a guide on the performance of this contract, but the practice varies somewhat between institutions and market participants in particular want a clear legal basis for fulfilling their obligations. Of course, the financial institutions concerned themselves are interested in the swift entry into force of the law. In the context of the period of entry into force, what the Minister stressed was that the substantive tax issues of the draft do not regulate or change the current tax regime. It was discussed how the exchange of information would take place. The explanation was that the bank only collects personal data on potential US tax residents and forwards them to the Tax and Customs Board, which in turn sends them to the relevant US authority. The Commission was interested in the problems raised by the Estonian Banking Association in relation to data protection. The second meeting of the Commission on 9 December was held with representatives of the Estonian Banking Association. Representatives of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance took part. The representatives of the Banking Association considered the draft to be necessary and the speedy entry into force of the Act to be important. We understood that the banking union was grateful that they were involved in the process, but they did raise some questions about data protection rules. The first question was about the obligation to collect information and to inform customers resulting from the exchange of information. Following the consultation, the Commission agreed with the Banking Union's proposal to allow notification under the general terms and conditions of the Bank. Another problem was the provision requiring the bank to provide all information provided to the Tax and Customs Board at the customer's request for the current and the five previous years. According to the Banking Association, the provision is essentially covered by the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act and is duplicated here. The ministries concerned expressed their willingness to clarify the wording. This could be expected to be written in the second reading of the Commission's amendment. There was also an interest in the number of individuals affected by this data exchange with the USA. We didn't get an exact answer to that. According to a representative of the Banking Association, they have tried to ask their members this question, but the feedback has not been exhaustive. The order of magnitude may be 100 persons. At its second meeting, the Commission also discussed the government's initiative too late, so it is not possible to deal with it at the usual pace. However, given the limited circle of subjects of this regulation and the interest of the financial institutions concerned in the speedy entry into force of the law, the Commission decided to deal with the draft as soon as possible. The Commission made consensual proposals to set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 15 p.m. on 12 December and to conclude the first reading. The Commission also took consensual decisions on the second and third readings: the Commission's intention is to make a second reading on 17 December and the third reading on 18 December. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U303	So there are three readings. Please, Kalle Palling, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U304	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I understood that this draft provides that Estonian financial institutions are divided into two parts: one is a Reporting Financial Institution and the other is not. Can you give an example of which financial institutions are accountable and which are not?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U305	Thank you. That's a good question. All credit institutions, i.e. banks in the normal sense, are necessarily reportable. For example, partnerships, pools of assets, funds that, for the purposes of the US, may have a place of business are non-reporting obligations. The Bank of Estonia is not accountable, and suddenly the pension funds are not accountable. But I might be wrong, it might be more specific.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U306	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? Now it's an opportunity, we're looking forward to active participation. No calls, no negotiations. The commission has proposed that the first reading be closed. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 794 amendments on 12 December at 3 p.m. The first reading is closed and the tenth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U307	Let's move on to item 11. The first reading of the draft law amending the Anti-Corruption Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister of Justice Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U308	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I have the honour to introduce to you the draft law amending the Anti-Corruption Act sent to the Riigikogu from the Government of the Republic, number 777, which aims to make the declaration of interests system more purposeful and user-friendly. We also want to make the declaration, to an even greater extent, pre-enforceable with the data of the national databases. At this point, I would like to point out that, in addition to legislative changes, we are still supplementing the system at a technical level and making other minor amendments which do not require any amendment of the law. Such changes include, for example, the automatic recording of data on grandchildren in the declaration and explanations in the additional fields. In making these changes, we have based in particular on feedback from both users and system operators. I would point out that it is planned to review and improve technical solutions on an ongoing basis. For example, we can improve the compatibility of traffic register data with data from the declaration system. The draft provides for the following changes: The obligation to declare voluntary funded pension data is waived. Under the current regime, only units of compulsory funded pension are not declared. Declaration of ancillary activities shall be linked to the time of the declaration. This allows the automated use of business register data when declaring. The draft stipulates that both the year in which the declaration is made and the year preceding it must be declared by means of ancillary activities enabling the current data in the commercial register to be recorded directly in the declaration. This will facilitate the completion of the declaration if the person continues to carry out the same ancillary activity. The minimum level of benefits received or granted to be declared shall also be amended. According to the current version, the lower limit relates to income subject to social tax in the post of declarant. However, it is difficult to take this amount into account, for example, if there is no regular income in the post or if there is no such income subject to social tax at all. As it was extremely difficult to find this amount in practice, it is now moving towards a simpler and more understandable solution. The draft establishes a minimum value of EUR 4000 for the benefit to be declared, which is also a minimum threshold for material damage under the Penal Code Act, which will enter into force in 2015. We have offered that the law should enter into force in general terms, as this would ensure that the amendments would enter into force before the 2015 declaration period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U309	Minister, thank you. There are no questions. Rein Lang, member of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu, would like to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U310	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. The Constitutional Commission discussed a draft submitted by the Government, which has received an interesting number in the Riigikogu, number 777 ! On 1 December. What happened at the committee meeting? First of all, the Minister of Justice, Andres Anvelt, spoke exactly as he did today. There's no point in repeating that. Then a little was theorized about how grandchildren could be reflected in this pre-filled system. It was interesting to hear from the Minister today that he intends to ensure that all the children of the declarants are listed in the information system. I don't know how he can do this. A little theorized about the cars. The members of the Commission were quite dissatisfied that the declaration would force all kinds of vehicles to declare, including those whose value is essentially close to zero or which are of mutual value. There was also dissatisfaction that the pre-filled system reflected means of transport actually no longer available to the declarant, which had been realised or destroyed. This is where the government representative promised to put order in the house. The speaker asked whether in 2015 there was any point in declaring cars, and received an exhaustive answer that there was no meaningful point in declaring cars, but the idea is that politicians should be well-open. The representative of the government, Mr Anvelt, said that, in his personal opinion, registers that reflect vehicles, for example, could be freely accessible at all and curious, it could cost the euro or two for such information, but there is no agreement on this in the country. That's true, isn't it? Tanel Kalmet, an employee of the Ministry of Justice, asked with great interest whether there was a declaration system in the European Court of Human Rights and received an exhaustive reply from Rait Marust that there was no such system. They then asked what was the interest in the completed declarations at all. The answer to this question was that there was essentially no interest, but that the system was very important. Then there was another question about cars that I would like to quote to those who are still bothering to listen to in this Chamber. Indrek Saar said of the Social Democratic Party: 'There have been cases with cars in the past where a member of the Riigikogu drives a proud car, the origin of which is more than questionable in the case of a politician that a politician uses a car. The person must declare his or her car and it may be asked what the person is driving. If this provision is removed from the law, the public may argue that cars of dubious origin are being driven. ' Since this was such a fundamental statement, the Commission made procedural decisions on this: to put the draft on the agenda by 10 December, to propose that the first reading be closed, to propose that the deadline for the submission of amendments be set at 14:00 p.m. on 23 December 2014; I would point out that this is just before Christmas Eve; and to appoint Rein Lang, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as rapporteur. All the decisions were consensual. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U311	Good co-worker, thank you! There are no questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? No suggestion, no opening of negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 777 amendments at 14:00 on 23 December. The first reading is closed and the 11th item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U312	Let's move on to item 12. The first reading of the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister of Justice Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U313	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Allow me to report to you the content of the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and other laws 770. The aim of the draft is to better guarantee the rights of persons in criminal proceedings that seriously violate fundamental rights. The draft amends the rules on arrest and search and makes minor changes to the Code to address the problems encountered in practice. It is precisely search and arrest that are acts that seriously violate the fundamental rights of persons that increase judicial control when they are carried out. The provisions of appeal and cassation procedures in criminal proceedings and other legal proceedings are also specified in order to improve the exercise of the right of appeal. This will ensure a smooth and swift judicial process and provide greater clarity to the parties to the proceedings. All searches shall subsequently be subject to ex ante or ex post judicial review. For reasons of operationality, searches of certain crimes are also permitted under the Prosecutor's Office's regulation, but this regulation will have to be followed up by the court on the next working day. An urgent search may only be carried out with the permission of the prosecutor and the right of the investigating authority to decide on the admissibility of the search shall be abolished. The duty of the Registrar to indicate more clearly what is being searched during the search shall be further specified and the rules shall be specified when the search has been conducted in so-called cases. This way, for example, in the future, drugs found in the apartment can be confiscated in addition to weapons when dealing with a criminal offence against a person. The draft reduces the maximum time limit for arrest in pre-trial proceedings. Instead of the current six months, the accused may be arrested for up to four months. If the arrested person is a minor, he may then be arrested for up to two months. Any further time limit may be taken into custody only in exceptional circumstances, at the request of the State Attorney General. In the future, the court can also authorise the arrest of a person for a maximum period of two months, while the initial arrest of a suspect or accused person for a second-degree offence can only take up to one month. The regular review of the merits of the arrest in the pre-trial proceedings shall be replaced by an extension of the arrest. The initiative must come from the prosecutor and it is possible for the court to assess the length of the extension in the light of the circumstances of the case. The amendment is also provided for in the provisions governing the existence of a lawyer. The person must have a lawyer if he has been in custody for at least four months. According to the current regulation, this limit is six months. The principle of rigid continuity, i.e. the prohibition to settle other criminal cases of general procedure in parallel with the criminal case being discussed in the general proceedings, will be abolished. Instead, a more flexible set of rules will be provided to allow for the parallel handling of a number of cases in general proceedings, while ensuring that the second case to be dealt with does not undermine the continuation of the first case. It is specifically emphasised that a court finds a possibility for parallel proceedings where an accused person has been arrested and is accused of committing a criminal offence as a minor. The procedural guarantees of other parties to proceedings shall be specified and corrected. For example, it provides that a copy of the judgment must also be sent to the victim and the order closing the case to a third party. These measures will improve the right of appeal of the persons concerned. In addition, a new and clearer definition of the victim is given. A larger package of rights protection for victims is underway, a draft of which will be completed in the first quarter of 2015. The draft provides for a simplified closure of blind cases with an unidentified suspect. According to the draft, it is possible to close the procedure even if it is not feasible to collect additional evidence. In future, the procedure could also be terminated by an order of the investigating authority, subject to authorisation by the prosecutor's office. The main scope of the draft is to amend the laws of all legal proceedings on the basis of the proposals of the Supreme Court in order to remove unjustified exceptions to the rules of appeal, cassation, review and regulation appeals. Despite the volume, these are mostly technical changes. The cost of the draft is EUR 947500: personnel costs for courts, prosecutor's office and experts, legal assistance and convoicing costs and the development of an e-file. The associated costs are of a lasting nature and must be planned for the budget of the area of government as of 2016. However, the aim is a broad-based protection of fundamental rights of individuals and requires budgetary expenditure. I also note that some issues, such as a thorough review of the principle of legality and the issue of electronic evidence, remain unresolved with the draft, as they require changes of a more fundamental nature with a passing-through effect and therefore more time to assess possible solutions. The draft is planned to enter into force as a law on 1 January 2016 as a general rule, while the amendments relating to arrests and searches are planned to enter into force on 1 January 2016. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U314	Thank you, Minister. There are no questions. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Vice-Chairman of the Legal Affairs Committee Marko Pomerants!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U315	Ladies and gentlemen, President-in-Office of the Council. Having followed the speech of the Minister of Justice very carefully, I must say that he gave you the substance of the draft exhaustively. I did not notice any shortcomings in the coverage of the issues discussed in the Committee on Legal Affairs. I therefore only have to inform you that, in the course of this draft procedure, the Committee on Legal Affairs has initially reached a consensus both on today's debate and by proposing that the first reading of this draft be stopped. Mr Lang said that amendments must be made before Christmas, but our draft is in a better position, with a little more time. By 4 p.m. on 29 December, all amendments are welcome. My proposal and the Commission's proposal is to conclude the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U316	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? There's no call. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 770 amendments on 29 December at 4 p.m. The first reading is closed and the 12th item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U317	Let's move on to item 13. The first reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Law and the Code of Enforcement Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister of Justice Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U318	Mr President! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I now have the honour to introduce you to the draft law amending the Law on bailiffs and the Code of Enforcement Procedure. Its general objectives are to increase the number of people who pay the bailiff on a voluntary basis and to bring the bailiff's fees more into line with cost-based accounting and the complexity and volume of operations. It is envisaged that the deadline for voluntary enforcement in enforcement proceedings will be extended to 30 days from 2017. The aim is to give people the opportunity to pay their debt at a lower cost over a period of time, including payday. You usually get paid once a month. At present, the debt owed to the bailiff has to be paid voluntarily within 10 days and after this deadline the debtor has to bear considerable procedural costs. In case of voluntary enforcement, the bailiff's remuneration is much lower. Secondly, the draft is intended to change the amount of the bailiff's fees. The rate of the bailiff's remuneration shall affect all parties to the enforcement proceedings. The direct effect is on debtors who are obliged to pay the bailiff's remuneration and bailiffs whose income depends on the rate of remuneration and the receipt of fees. Enforcement proceedings shall be carried out in the interests of the recoverer in particular. The existing regulation should fully facilitate swift and effective enforcement procedures. The bailiffs should make use of all legal means to recover debts. It is important to exclude a situation where so-called chronic debtors develop a persistent sense of impunity. At the same time, we must ensure that the bailiff's activities are financed, which is why its operating costs must be covered by the statutory fees. In the future, the amount to be charged for the opening of enforcement proceedings will depend on the accuracy of the debtor's address or contact details in the population register. If the person's correct address is indicated in the register, the costs incurred by the bailiff for service of the declaration of enforceability shall be lower. If the debtor pays the debt voluntarily, there shall be no costs of enforcement proceedings other than only the starting fee. If the bailiff executes the claim without a large amount of work, as a result of the attachment of the so-called fast electronic bank account, i.e. if the debtor's account has the amount of the debt at the time of the attachment and the entire claim is met in one operation, the debtor will have an additional fee of EUR 16 for the opening of the procedure. According to the bill, the bailiff's bonuses will change. The limit on the remuneration of bailiffs obtained from the sale of real estate is set. Currently, the bailiff's fee is up to 3% of the sale price of the property. The draft sets a nominal limit of EUR 2 000 for this amount. The purpose of the amendment is to avoid situations where a bailiff can earn an unduly high fee on the sale of more expensive real estate compared to his work. The law is set to enter into force from the beginning of 2017, as changes need to be implemented through the development of a bailiff's fee calculation information system. The draft is also intended to change the controller of the register of enforcement proceedings and to direct all public sector requirements to compliance through a single system. It is proposed to transfer responsibility for the development and management of information systems in enforcement proceedings from the Ministry of Justice to the Chamber of Law Enforcement and Bankruptcy Administrators. In order to ensure equal treatment and to increase transparency, the draft provides for an amendment whereby all public sector requirements will in future be addressed in a single procedure and through a single information system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U319	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thank you, Minister. The Commission's rapporteur is Kalle Laanet. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U320	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister! The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed this draft on Monday, 10 November. The minister introduced this bill just as adequately as he did right now before me here. I'm not gonna talk it over. It was decided, by consensus, to appoint me rapporteur, to put the draft on the plenary agenda today, 10 December, and to propose that the first reading be closed. While the deadlines for tabling amendments to previous drafts were shorter, the deadline for submitting amendments to these drafts will be 4 p.m. next year, i.e. on 5 January 2015. This decision was also consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U321	Thank you. There are no questions for the rapporteur. I'm opening negotiations, no calls. First reading of the draft 750 has been completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 4 p.m. on 5 January 2015.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U322	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Commercial Code initiated by the Government of the Republic. The number of the bill is 785 and the waitress is Andres Anvelt, Minister of Justice. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U323	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will report to you the basic purpose of the draft law amending the Commercial Code. By amending the Commercial Code, private limited liability companies, including start-ups, will be given greater opportunities to raise capital and shape the relationship between shareholders and the company's activities. As a result of the changes, start-ups may start offering world-standard solutions that are already familiar to investors. The aim is to make Estonia a more attractive destination country for foreign investors and to motivate Estonian private limited companies to stay here even after the involvement of foreign capital. In order to achieve the above-mentioned broader objective, we have proposed the following solutions in the draft. Firstly, we allow the private limited company a conditional increase in the share capital and the issuance of convertible bonds. At present, such operations cannot be carried out in a private limited company. According to the draft law, if provided for in the statutes, a private limited company may issue convertible bonds on the basis of a shareholder decision for a conditional increase in the share capital. On the basis of an exchange bond, the investor is entitled to become a shareholder of a private limited company under specified conditions, and the investor is also able to dispose of the right, i.e. the convertible bond, under exactly the same conditions as otherwise applicable when the share is transferred. Secondly, we give the Governing Board or the Council the right to increase capital. The current law only allows a public limited liability company to grant the supervisory board the right to increase its subscribed capital for a maximum period of three years in its statutes. The draft act also allows this right to be granted to the board of directors or the management board of a private limited company. As a result of the change, start-ups and other private companies can delegate quick capital raising decisions to their management bodies. This will allow for more flexible and urgent arrangements with the investor. Thirdly, we are introducing regulation on the subscription of shares to private limited liability companies. The current law requires, when deciding on an increase in the share capital, that it indicates the name of each new shareholder, the identity and registration code and other such very detailed information. In the future, the increase in share capital can be referred to more generally by individuals. In this way, it can be determined that, for example, all employees or, in the case of an increase in the share capital, the current shareholders may first indicate the shares themselves. Fourthly, in the future, the conditions for the acquisition of the company's own shares will be relaxed. As a result, the limited liability company is able to make use of the option programmes, and the share of the shareholder in the repurchase obligation can be agreed more clearly, for example if the shareholder has not contributed to the company in an agreed manner or in volume. Fifthly, we also need to clarify the regulation on the introduction of special rights relating to parts. It is expressly stated that the statutes must designate the special rights parts separately and that the differences in the rights relating to the type of the respective parts must be reflected in this way. Sixthly, we will make it easier for the Council to hold a meeting and take decisions. The current rules governing the holding of council meetings and the adoption of decisions are out of date, especially in a situation where the members of the board are not in one city or not at all in Estonia. The members of the Council may, in accordance with the draft, make the necessary vote by means of distance communication or in writing. As a result of this change, more modern means of communication can be used in the management of the company and allow decisions relating to the company to be made more effectively at the board level. Finally, we will specify the rules for division and partial disposal. The draft is planned to enter into force as a law on 1 July 2015, as some changes to the information system of the Commercial Register, as well as the Estonian Central Register of Securities, are required to enter into force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U324	Thank you. Any questions for the Minister? No, it's not. The rapporteur for the Committee on Legal Affairs is Igor Gräzin. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U325	Good Eik and everyone else! We've been through this. What the hell are you talking about? It was proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 10 December (consensually), that we propose that the first reading be closed (consensually), that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 12 noon (consensually) and that Igor Gräzin (also consensually) be appointed as rapporteur. Since there were no questions, there were no answers. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U326	Thank you. Any questions for the Committee on Legal Affairs? No, it's not. I'm opening negotiations, no calls. First reading of bill 785 is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 12 noon on 29 December.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U327	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act and the Consumer Protection Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Andres Anvelt, Minister of Justice. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U328	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! This bill is part of a draft package aimed at regulating and improving the Estonian rapid credit market. Previously, as you know, we have sent the draft percentage rate of charge to the Riigikogu. The draft we are discussing today sets a ceiling on the collection costs charged to the consumer and clarifies the regulation of late payment and, to some extent, the regulation of the fee extension of consumer credit agreements. The general objective of the draft is to protect the rights of the consumer and to avoid a situation where, due to various ancillary claims, in particular the cost of recovery, the debt of a person in default is increasing rapidly and is in an even worse economic situation. The limitation on recovery costs applies to all contracts where one party is the consumer and the other party is a person engaged in economic and professional activities. The restrictions apply to fast-track loans, leasing and credit card providers as well as post-paid sellers. Recovery costs are costs incurred in a situation where the debtor has failed to fulfil his obligations and the creditor takes steps to contact the debtor. The recovery costs may be the costs necessary to get in touch with the debtor, such as calling or sending reminders, as well as the costs related to the use of the accountant's service, etc. The current law does not provide for a specific detailed regulation for the reimbursement of the recovery costs charged to the consumer. The changes proposed by the draft act are due to the problems encountered in practice. Often, creditors enter the amount of collection costs into standard contractual clauses which cannot be affected by the consumer. For example, sending reminders can become a separate source of revenue for the lender. It must be reacted proactively. There are no rare cases where an additional EUR 300 has been added to the EUR 4000 loan as a collection cost. Due to its size, recovery costs have a negative impact on the already failing consumer. The changes foreseen in the draft can be divided into several blocks. First, collection costs. The law lays down specific limits on the collection costs charged to the consumer, distinguishing between the recovery of the consumer's debt during the period of validity of the contractual relationship and after its termination. During the duration of the contract, the creditor can only charge the consumer the costs of sending reminders. For any debt that has become chargeable at that time, only one fee reminder can be sent, for which the consumer may be required to pay up to EUR 5. That right shall be exercised by the creditor if he has previously sent at least one free reminder to the consumer. At the end of the period of validity of the contract, no more than three letters of interest may be sent to the debtor. Letters can be sent every seven days. The maximum total recovery costs must also be taken into account. The draft provides for a step-by-step system, the amount of the specific ceiling depends on the amount of the claim. For example, for claims up to EUR 500, the upper limit is EUR 30, for claims up to EUR 1000, and for claims above EUR 1000, the upper limit is EUR 50. In exceptional circumstances, where the creditor's costs have been exceeded by the limit laid down by law, he can only claim compensation from the consumer for proven damage, in particular where recovery operations have proved particularly difficult for some reason, such as being a consumer abroad, having difficulty in contact with him and having to do with additional costs. The upper limit on recovery costs means the maximum permissible amount required of the consumer, but in each individual case the calculation of such an amount may not be justified. According to the bill, the consumer has the right to demand a reduction of unreasonable costs in court. Agreements which deviate from the restrictions on collection costs to the detriment of the consumer are negligible. The Consumer Protection Board will monitor compliance with the limitation of collection costs and the upper limit of the percentage rate of charge. The amendment allows the Consumer Protection Board to monitor recovery costs agreements, in particular those contained in standard terms. The Consumer Protection Board can make an injunction for the infringer to bring an end to the infringement, and a misdemeanour is also created for non-compliance with the limits on the maximum percentage of charge and the limitation on the collection costs. The second major block of amendments concerns the regulation of late payment. This is specified in such a way that the current prohibition on late payment of interest applies explicitly to other remuneration for the use of money, which is essentially the same as interest. In order to provide consumers with a clearer picture of the actual consequences of late payments, the draft provides for an obligation to publish the applicable default rate in consumer credit agreements, both as a daily and annual rate. The draft is scheduled to enter into force on 1 July 2015. This period of entry into force was chosen in view of the expected time of the draft procedure and the need to allow those implementing the law to prepare for the new regulation. The same period of entry into force is also laid down in the Act amending the Code of Civil Procedure, the Law of Obligations Act and the General Part of the Civil Code Act. Therefore, the regulation on the limitation of the collection costs charged to the consumer enters into force at the same time as the regulation on the upper limit of the cost rate of consumer credit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U329	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. The Commission's rapporteur is Jüri Morozov. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U330	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy members of the Riigikogu here- and on the side of the TV screen! I report what took place in the Legal Committee of the Riigikogu during the processing of the draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act and the Consumer Protection Act 786. The debate took place on Monday, 1 December. The explanations were provided by the honourable Minister of Justice, Andres Anvelt, and Kristiina Koll, adviser to the private law department of the Ministry of Justice. The explanations were thorough, as was the Minister's presentation here today. As a Commission waitress, I have nothing to add. The Commission took procedural decisions. The draft was decided to be put on the plenary agenda by 10 December (the decision was consensual), the first reading was proposed to be closed and the deadline for tabling amendments was set at 29 December (also consensually) and Jüri Morozov (also consensually) was appointed rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-10_U331	Does Kalev Eagle have a question for Jüri Morozov? No, it's not. I'm opening negotiations, no calls. Thus, the first reading of draft 786 has been completed. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft at 12 noon on 29 December. The session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday is closed. See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 6.08 p.m.
