ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-15_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! [[In the diner.]] May I have your attention, please? We will start the second working week of the 8th plenary session of the Riigikogu in a somewhat unusual way. In fact, now and immediately you will all have the opportunity to welcome the basketball team of the Riigikogu, who won the Baltic Assembly basketball competition for the eighth time in a row. Yes! [[Let's hear it.]] Now, the other questions. Who wants to hand over drafts or inquiries? On behalf of the Government of the Republic, Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-15_U2	Mr. Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic initiates civil procedure a draft law amending the Code and related amendments to other laws. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by Andres Anvelt, Minister of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-15_U3	Thank you. [[In the diner.]] May I disturb you? Thank you. Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-15_U4	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Estonian Central Party Group, I would like to refer an inquiry to the Prime Minister. Its theme is emigration. More specifically, the departure of young people, especially talent, from Estonia. In recent times, young people have become very popular with the linking of their future to a foreign country, and after graduating they go to better hunting lands. This is confirmed by statistical data. For example, 10746 young people migrated from Estonia in 2013. According to data from the World Economic Forum, Estonia has the ability to attract talent here and we can also keep them very low. In this category, Estonia has 97th place among 144 countries. Studies show that most young people who have left Estonia would prefer to live and work in Estonia if they could receive a high standard of living and an appropriate working environment. On behalf of the members of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, I will put four questions to the Prime Minister. I would like to find out what the government is doing to stop the migration of young talents from Estonia and to lure them back here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-15_U5	No more wishes. I have adopted one draft and one inquiry, both being dealt with in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs Act. Now, please, let's do the presence check! There are 90 members of the Riigikogu, missing 11. It's a week's agenda. No one would like to speak about that. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the agenda for the second working week of the XIII plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. 85 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of the adoption of the agenda, no one opposed, with 3 abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-15_U6	There are no questions on today's agenda, so a free microphone will begin. Sign up for a hammer strike, please! Anyone who has little interest in watching a free microphone may not do so. But those who wish to observe would prefer silence in the hall. Maimu Berg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-15_U7	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen! Colleagues and friends! Honourable Riigikogu! I promised from this speaker in the spring that I would start every speech with a reminder: let us help Tallinn, Tallinn needs capital law. I recently became convinced of this when the central party government considered it necessary to celebrate Tallinn's most strategic places with labels allowing drinking. But in fact, the problem is more serious than one failed law or tasteless labels. There is no news that Estonians have exaggerated alcohol for centuries. In the Middle Ages, the people who traveled here told of this. Drinking, of course, during the tsar's time, drinking during the consultative period, and drinking, of course, even now. I dare say that the only period, when there was much less iodine, was the time of Estonia. As early as the 1920s, Estonia began a noticeable and effective abstinence movement, and drinking really decreased. Society also condemned drinking much more acutely than it is now. I do not know whether those who came up with the law that you can drink in a public place thought about that time, the first republic, that there has been the Republic of Estonia for a long time, and they hoped that the people would be aware and that society would condemn drinking, or that they had some other reason to make this change. In any case, such a law was passed. Perhaps also because the consumption of alcohol in Estonia is statistically marked by a slight downward trend. But it is actually one of the biggest problems facing our country. No valid solution has been found, however much has not been caught. Now I come to the reactions and comments I received in my article published in the Estonian Päevaleht, which was titled as toxicly as possible in Delfi. If someone wanted to read this article, I guess I'm the only one who's ever read it, I did it when I wrote it, and he knows that I didn't have a word there like I was in favour of a law that allowed alcohol consumption in public. I said back there, unmanly city power was acting when I thought he was putting out the vulgar signs, thinking he was just making a joke. That money could have been used for anti-alcohol propaganda. But I also said in that article that the Central Party Group, which tabled a draft to ban drinking in a public place, acted as a statesman. I think that, although it has not been proven anywhere that this "public drink" would have brought in a lot of drunks, maybe there is some kind of tendency, and such a tendency is sad and bad. I say to everyone here in public that when this bill arrives in this Chamber, I will support it. I don't think it's right to drink alcohol in public, either. Although I believed that people's awareness was better, that we could overcome it, and that the social condemnation of such a thing was sharper. But that's it. At the same time, I am always sorry when I see the way in which Pear and Andres are being carried out, or put away, between the state and the capital. Unfortunately, Tallinn's power does not always realize that it is the capital of the country and it is harmful to the state to carry the force here; here, however, reasonable and correct compromises should still be found. That is why I am going to say, over and over again, that Carthage must be destroyed, that Tallinn must be helped and that capital law must be dealt with quickly. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-15_U8	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-15_U9	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Over ten years ago, I had a good friend in Narva. This lady was Chairman of the Kidsnvalite Society, Ludmila Tjurina. He's been somewhere abroad for a long time, and there's hardly a lot of people who remember the work he did. But he did a lot of work. I once asked him how he could do it, that others were always asking for money, but he's got some kind of fund all the time. Why does entrepreneurs give him money and not give it to others? He told me how he did it. He said that if he needed anything for this company, he would explain it to that person: "Yes, today you are healthy and happy, you will ride a white Mercedes and you will be fine, but in half an hour you may accidentally fall into a brick's head, and you will be in exactly the same situation as the children I have come to you for, and for whom I will ask for money. " He could explain it in such a way that all the entrepreneurs always gave money. That was an introduction to the subject I am about to discuss. It's not a single family question either, it's actually a question for all of us. This is about a caring country and solidarity. Last Monday, I already told that story. About a year ago, the father of a very small girl named Varvara came to the Riigikogu to ask for help. The girl has an inborn disease. I can't even say the name of the disease. The fact is that there have been some of these cases in Estonia and the children have been operated on, but Varvara's parents said it had always been only negative, all these operations were fatal. At the same time, the disease is being treated more successfully in some parts of the world. It was, of course, the easiest thing for this family to hit at the Moscow Clinic. They came to ask for help because, I recall, it turned out that the girl would not be released from Estonia without a certain document. But at the clinic, everything was set up for the next day, tickets bought. No one had thought that any more documents would be needed. Ene Ergma, then president of the Riigikogu, helped and in a few hours the problem was solved. There are always people who can help. The operation went well and the child's life was saved. Now, after six months of treatment, this family returned to Estonia. It turned out that while the parents have paid the health insurance fund for many years, no one wants to make up for their expenses. The documents that had been transferred were filed for more than three months instead of 30 days. The doctor, who had to supervise, did not know that the analysis required by this disease was also carried out in Estonia. He told these people to go abroad for this. There's another disease left undetected that girl's got. The fight for Varvara's life continues. I am saying this because I have no other opportunity to introduce you to the written question that I handed over today to Urmas Kruus, the Minister for Health and Labour. Varvara's mother asks why she has to pay the health insurance fund, but if her child needs help, she is forced to turn to another country because there are no competent specialists in Estonia, and why the health insurance fund refuses to compensate for this treatment. The second question is for me. Some time ago, our president had surgery in Finland. Did the Health Insurance Fund compensate him for that, and if so, what difference does it make between Ilves and Varvara? So next time, I hope we applaud here, not for winning basketball, but for helping to save a small child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-15_U10	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-15_U11	Ladies and gentlemen, I want to talk again and again about the work capacity reform, which continues to fuel passion and, as we know, is largely imported from abroad. Very many countries have already critically reviewed this system. When you look at our draft, it seems like a fairy tale at first reading: people who have been looking for jobs for years are put to work, an individual approach is applied, and they are no longer alone with their concerns. But if you look at what bill came here in spring, you have to say that I may not have seen a bill as raw, alien and unthinking as this in the Riigikogu. Yeah, we've made it a little better here, but there's definitely a lot more questions than answers. In fact, the former Minister of Social Affairs, Hanno Pevkur and Taavi Rõivas, the current Prime Minister, had many years to prepare this law. At the very beginning, the plan was to make another law, much more comprehensive. Indeed, in 2012, Andrus Ansip gave the government the task of preparing a comprehensive plan for the reform of employment insurance. This was not the case, and then it was decided to make a law on disability benefits, which is only one part of this major reform. It could be said that this was an emergency exit for the Reform Party, which was quickly put before the new government. Now it's a problem for all of us. Initially, there was a plan to make a law aimed, in particular, at preventing the loss of working capacity and increasing the working capacity of people with disabilities. One starting point was that insurance for accidents at work and occupational diseases had to be established, which has not even started at the moment, even though it is the so-called basis for solving this problem. There is certainly a need to establish a system of assistance services that is currently in the process, but it can be said with certainty that this is very incomplete, because there have been no standards for social services so far. For example, people with disabilities need transport to get to work, and without it, going to work is out of the question. It's written down, but there's no money for it. A lot of employers have said that they might even take a disabled person to work, but these people just don't get to work. We all know that personal helpers, supporters for people with mental disabilities and sign language translation are needed. These are all very, very expensive services, and there is no money for that, of course. But we're going to pass the law as if these things were all there. There's a lot of misunderstandings about money. Today, we were told that 3,000 people would be put to work every year, and that, for five years in a row, that is, 15,000 people, and the money will come from the taxes paid. I don't even know where the 3,000 is, the prescribed number. They didn't know how to answer that today. Of course, this must be accompanied by a rehabilitation and rehabilitation service and by an increase in the volume of special care. At the moment, we are only talking about occupational rehabilitation. But for those who work, 40,000 people have been given only a symbolic amount for rehabilitation, half a percent of the number of rehabilitation services of working age. So they're pretty much about the orphan. The problem of informal care has not been touched, the motivation package of employers has not been virtually touched. They say we don't have jobs, but I'll ask you how these 15,000 people are gonna get a job if we don't try to create any benefits or preferences at all. Of course, the problem of temporary incapacity for work, which was once again to be resolved by this reform, is also completely unresolved. So these related problems are all unsolved. Instead of resolving them, they want to enter into a goodwill agreement, on the principle that it will be dealt with in the future. I understand that it is intended to be signed before the protest meeting that disabled people intend to hold again at Toompea. It was strange to watch today when the Minister for Social Protection left our committee meeting in order to go to a press conference for the disabled, to which he had not been invited. Our questions were largely unanswered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-15_U12	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-15_U13	Thank you for the right to speak. Mrs Maimu Berg has left the hall now, but maybe she can still hear my speech. I wanted to tell him that I am one of the few who read his article about Tallinn. We discussed this article in the so-called community of cultural people. I don't want to say from that remote what people said about a famous writer's article. Whoever has an interest, look at the readers' comments, they'll all say no. The point of the article was that Maimu Berg criticised Tallinn, who has dared to put up some signs that would allow vodka to be taken in this place. Today, a number of well-known advertising gourds have made positive assessments of this campaign; they have called it brilliant, witty and practical. What was Tallinn supposed to do? Maimu Berg said it was vulgar and ugly and could have done anti-alcohol propaganda instead. I don't know if it would have been better to put 5,000 posters in Tallinn with letters 'Don't drink! ', 'Don't smoke! ' ', 'One cigarette kills a horse'. Something like that? Now they came up with a very fresh and interesting campaign, and the signs were posted exactly where they fit in. This same Toompea passed this villainy, even embarrassing law, so let the people of Toompea drink here when he gave himself permission. President, the president of the entire nation, as he calls himself, Mr. Ilves announced this law quickly in Kadriorg. So why don't you let Evelin and Ilves try champagne or drink wine, if they like. It's okay. Perhaps those who drink beer in the park will also come to the Presidential Palace and see how the Head of State lives. Maybe they will, too. It's okay. Tallinn has been cursed in this hall. Years, years, years. I've been here for over ten years, and I'm just reminding myself of it on a bird's-eye. Do you remember the criticism of Tallinn, which started paying old people dental care allowance and spectacle support? A few days ago, we discussed the need to provide dental care support to the Toothless Estonian people. Tallinn did it, and now the state will take it. Additional pension for the elderly was granted by Tallinn many years ago, and people are very happy that they will receive a small grant for at least Christmas or New Year's. Now we are discussing where to find the means to raise pensions. We recall the criticism of free transport in Tallinn: buses and bus lanes do not fit and bus Riots and what else they were called. It now turns out that the whole world is looking very closely at Tallinn. We hear the news day after day when one city or another is experimenting with the same scheme. Or may we remind you that when the property reform brought us about 20,000 forced tenants who had nowhere to live, because they were evicted from former owners' houses directly on the street and under the tree, how Edgar Savisaar, the mayor of Tallinn, started building apartments for them and accepted the '5000 homes in Tallinn' housing programme in Tallinn. Now these 5,000 apartments have been ready for a long time, people have gotten a place, feel good there, and have survived a difficult period of life. The state now discovered in the identity of Minister Urve Palo that it would also be necessary to start building public apartments in the country. But I'll remind you what a grudge and attack it was against the mayor when this housing program started: Savisaar is ruining the housing market, taking down apartment prices, Lasnamäe apartments aren't going to cost anything anymore. It was a terrible attack on the real estate sharks. I was a member of the Tallinn City Council at the time, and I remember the debates that were in the hall. Now everyone has accepted this and we are on the road to Europe. In Europe's cities, 20 to 40% of the city's housing fund has municipal buildings. So you see, Tallinn has been ahead of the others. He has seemed like a beacon from afar and invited us to do the right thing or to fly the flag. Let Maimu Berg remember this history and write a new article. It is not necessary to recall from the Riigikogu's remote control that Tallinn needs to be protected. That won't be necessary. Tallinn protects itself. Tallinn is protected by its voters, who have given a record number of votes to the mayor and the party that is in power in Tallinn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-15_U14	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-15_U15	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Recently, it is as if social democrats have been accused of betraying their country. The problem is that the Social Democrats have begun to discuss supporting the draft, which allows many people living in Estonia to sell 0.2 hectares of land along the border. I do not think many have understood this issue. I want to explain this a little bit. The problem is, in fact, much simpler, and it is far from being that the Social Democrats support the sale of 0.2 hectares of land to Russian citizens. There are already many people living on Estonian soil with grey passports who have privatized 0.2 hectares of garden land. They've privatized it, this land's secured, and it's their property. If they now want to sell it to the same people, this deal is forbidden. Simply put, if Aunt Katja has one 0.2-hectare plot of land near Narva and if Aunt Galina wants to buy it from her, Aunt Katya cannot sell it. But Aunt Katya can sell land to Aunt Galina when Aunt Galina formalises a private limited company in her name. It's a perfectly legitimate transaction under current law. Today, the law provides that when Russian citizens come from Russia and they also form a private limited company, they also have the right to buy this land from Aunt Katya. I think that the Minister of the Interior, Hanno Pevkur, a member of the Reform Party, has misjudged the role of social democrats in dealing with this issue. The Social Democrats understand that there is a border zone where restrictions and special circumstances need to be imposed. But in those municipalities, which are far beyond the border and where people with long-term residence permits wish to sell their land to the same persons as they themselves, it should be allowed. The Social Democrats are willing to move on and discuss this issue. They have therefore asked their group to give an opinion on this subject by the Minister of the Interior and others involved in this matter. But if the Minister of the Interior says that this approach is completely wrong at this time, I would remind the Reform Party that Urmas Paet, the Foreign Minister of the Reform Party, ran first to Moscow to sign the Estonian-Russian border agreement. I do not know what it was then, why the minister did not ask Estonian citizens whether he was allowed to make such a deal at all. The nature of the problem may be that already Russian citizens are coming to Estonia and, according to the law, they have the right to buy houses and apartments here. This is a problem and needs to be addressed. The Social Democrats are of the opinion that this problem should not be discussed at the media level, that this problem must be clarified and that it must be dealt with very seriously. We certainly believe that people with long-term residence permits should have the right to sell land to the same people in a democratic country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-15_U16	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-15_U17	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I express my concern about the state of our economy and perhaps even more about the fact that this does not seem to be a major concern for the ruling coalition. As the economic outlook is poor, the ruling Reform Party is attempting to cut political professionalism with security issues. The reason for this is because, as economist Rainer Kattel has said, Estonia has been no longer special for four or five years, but a normal country with no special economic growth. There is no reason for us to pat on the shoulder anymore, because we have nothing to show after a few niche companies' little successes. Talk about austerity policy and its successful implementation will no longer help because, as economists have said afterwards, this had little to do with economic recovery. The claim that austerity measures helped beyond the crisis is one big bubble, which the previous Prime Minister Andrus Ansip sold very successfully both in Estonia and in the West. 'Come on, help God! 'you can only say that. Let us remember, even if Ansip had been able to pull brakes on the boom at the right time, the economy would not have acted on such a black scenario. Estonia was one of the few European countries that applied austerity policy, the other countries did not take such a high risk, as the negative reaction of voters in the elections was feared. However, Estonia was in a phenomenal situation: despite the fact that the Reform Party spoke of heavy austerity measures, including wage cuts, this had no effect on their election results in the 2011 Riigikogu elections. Associate Professor Viljar Veebel of the United Educational Institutions of the Defence Forces has said that those who were unhappy with what was happening in the country simply left, voted with their feet, as they say. For the rest, a lack of democratic experience may have become a stumbling block; voters lacked the ability to act punitively in elections. By the end of 2011, according to OECD data, 60% of Estonia's population was among the poorest in the European Union. Estonia's overall level of prosperity represented 17% of the euro area average, above Slovakia alone. The austerity measures led to an increase in unemployment, a deterioration in access to health care and an increase in treatment queues. While in 2008 the Health Insurance Fund refused 54 patients' operations due to a lack of money, in 2011 the number of refusals reached 2000. During the same period, the number of patients waiting for treatment doubled. In this situation, the coalition at the time increased public debt in order to lend millions of euros to Greece and other countries benefiting from crisis mechanisms. The people of Estonia did not benefit from this, and their economies were not revived with increasing public debt. What was the real effect of the recovery? Rainer Kattel has identified three factors that helped the Estonian economy out of the crisis. It should be noted that none of them depended on Estonia. Firstly, the rapid recovery of exports, which was driven by the very strong competitiveness of Scandinavian companies. However, the Asian markets, where there was hardly any recession, were particularly important. The Swedish state's investments also contributed to companies' ability to cope with the crisis. Secondly, companies benefited from the floating rate of the Swedish currency, which fell by up to 20% at the top of the crisis and thereby improved the competitiveness of exporting companies. Thirdly, in recent years, Estonia had helped to cope with the revenue from the sale of the European Union's structural funds and the CO2 quota. From 2000 until the beginning of this year, the Estonian Structural Funds received 6 billion euros in aid, out of which 5,134 billion have been disbursed. The involvement of external resources now accounts for about one fifth of the total state budget. As noted by Urmas Varblane, Professor of International Entrepreneurship at the University of Tartu, Estonia has fallen into the hands of support addiction. The country can only pursue the current economic policy thanks to external support. This is unsustainable and, after the end of the support, such a policy can do the country a disservice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-15_U18	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-15_U19	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I want to talk about the situation where Russia's sanctions have led to our good farmer. The government has always indicated that the impact of the sanctions imposed by Russia is marginal and that they do not see a major problem. The impact of sanctions on our economy is estimated by Eesti Pank to be around 0.3% of GDP, and the government does not consider this to be a concern. Looking at the country's overall picture, the situation is really not the worst, but if we look at the sector by sector, we see that the agricultural sector has been hit hardest. In this sector, however, milk, fish and meat producers were hit hardest. According to the Institute of Economics, Russia's sanctions on Estonia's agricultural production require new markets to be found for a total amount of 150 million euros. In addition to the fact that EUR 50 million of milk products were previously exported to Russia, the Institute's study pointed out that last year raw milk was exported to Lithuania and Latvia for EUR 71 million, which was mainly processed there for the Russian market. I was shocked to read that, for a total amount of EUR 71 million, raw milk was removed from the country and, frankly, the cream from this milk was stripped by Latvian and Lithuanian operators, as well as by the budgets of these countries. Our government, which constantly stresses that we will only be rich if we can add value to products and sell products more expensive, will allow such a thing to happen peacefully! The export of raw milk shows that the development of agriculture has been subject to very serious misdemeanours, as the industry has not been developed. Why would Estonia give raw milk to Latvia and Lithuania for 71 million euros if a reasonable agricultural policy could have added value to this production in Estonia? With added value, we could have raised the price of the final product 3 to 4 times. This would have meant at least 500 new jobs, additional tax revenue for the state budget and improved breakthrough capacity for the entire agricultural sector. This is relevant especially now, because even if we find export markets, it is certainly not for raw milk. So we can only sell the product after processing in the dairy industry. In my opinion, it does not matter whether to move raw milk or round wages out of the country, in both cases there is a loss of revenue from the country's point of view. Would it be possible, for example in Denmark or the Netherlands, for raw milk to be transported out of the country? Would that minister still be there? The price of raw milk is falling. According to the Institute of Economic Affairs, the initial setback of sanctions for the dairy industry is that the price of a litre of milk has fallen from 40 cents to 22 cents. It is clear that it is not possible to produce below the cost price for a long time and it must be clear what will happen next for at least half a year. If no new markets are found, it is not excluded that many companies will have to close down or close down their activities. Russia's impact on the customs union and trade flows to the customs union is also not to be underestimated, as Russia is very interested in imposing sanctions on other customs union countries. Food prices on the world market have been falling for the last five months. Prices are falling, there is overproduction of food products in the nearest markets due to sanctions. Farmers have announced that sanctions have led foreign partners to give up supply contracts without prior notice or have forced them to lower their prices. In addition, the direct aid paid to Estonian farmers is below the average of the European Union, which gives priority to farmers in countries which receive higher rates of direct payments. It is no secret that our country did not take the opportunity to pay additional subsidies. This was allowed to be done for EUR 30 million, but unfortunately our country did not do so. A few days ago, we could read that apart from Latvia's full payment of the additional payment, it had decided to provide farmers with an additional €65 million in support for farmers to survive. I hope that our government will also wake up before it is too late and start discussing farmers' problems and finding adequate solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-15_U20	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-15_U21	Ladies and gentlemen, Today, I read in Delfi that Russian tourists have made pretty good statements to book a place at the hotel for the turn of the year. Tallinn is one of the cities to which the Russian people want to come for the New Year. Russian tourists come to Tallinn on average for three days, as was written in Delfi, and one day at the hotel costs an average of 73 euros. For example, a day in Finland costs a Russian tourist EUR 121 at a hotel. Why am I talking about this? On the weekend, I looked at the Veliki Novgorod website of Kohtla-Järve's town of friendship and found out that on 29 September the Finnish Consulate General will open one of the four visa centres, where work will begin so that the Russian people who wish to travel to Finland can get the visa faster. But the most interesting thing is that the Finns want to open such a visa centre on 26 September in Viiburi, 29 September in Veliki Novgorod, as I have already said, on 9 October in Vologda and 17 October in Pihkva. Essentially, these centres work in the same way as the consulate of St Petersburg, but people are, of course, more comfortable in their city to obtain a visa. So if a Russian person who wants to travel to Finland wants to get a fast visa, he has to go to St. Petersburg, the rest of the places I called him, he gets a visa in ten days. So, ladies and gentlemen, in order not to lose a rather good pace of development in tourism, in order not to reduce the number of tourists, we must also look for other opportunities. I'm sure it'll bring money to the state budget. We will all be very happy, then, because we have the opportunity to implement the programmes that we have in this Chamber and in the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-15_U22	From this point of view, there seems to be no other way to give anyone the floor. Monday's session is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 15.46 p.m.
