ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-30_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the session of the third working week of the seventh plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. Now, ladies and gentlemen, it is possible to pass on drafts and enquiries. Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-30_U2	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Central Party Group, I have an inquiry to report to Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas. This question concerns alcohol policy. Indeed, more than a year ago, the Ministry of Social Affairs published the original version of the Green Paper on alcohol policy. This document sets out trends in alcohol policy. The measures brought together in the Green Paper aim to reduce excessive alcohol consumption in Estonia. After a year of discussions, the Green Paper is ready to be presented to the government, but the changed content of the document has been criticised. The drawback is that the measures to reduce alcohol consumption outlined in the Green Paper are not sufficient. For example, according to the original version of the Green Paper, 1 June, or Children's Day, and 1 September, or the first day of the academic year, would have been nonalcoholic days. As a result of the changes, the Green Paper merely states that society should adopt a stance that alcohol is not consumed these days. In addition to the above, no specific proposals have been made at the Ministry of Social Affairs to establish a minimum price for alcohol. In this regard, we have five questions for Mr Clothes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-30_U3	Thank you. Please, Mr Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-30_U4	Ladies and gentlemen, Just as the Estonian state should give the Kohtla-Järve family an opportunity to make up for the mistake of ignorance when Kristina Bruyeva becomes of age and is able to renounce the citizenship of the Russian Federation, so the Social Democratic Party Group will also give those members of the Riigikogu who voted against our draft on Tuesday an opportunity to get closer acquainted with the matter and support the draft law amending § 29 of the Citizenship Act, which I am putting into the Riigikogu procedure again and in its unaltered state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-30_U5	Thank you. On behalf of the board, I have adopted a bill and an inquiry. If the draft law complies with the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board will decide to adopt it within three working days. If an inquiry complies with this law, I shall forward it immediately to the addressee. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 82 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, none 19. Ladies and gentlemen, now a little detail on the agenda. Today we have one item on the agenda, the Chancellor of Justice's proposal to bring the rules of the law on state fees and the Code of Civil Procedure and the Code of Administrative Procedure into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia (No 25). The report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is presented by Rait Maruste, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and Marko Pomerants, Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-30_U6	Let's get to the processing of today's item. During the discussion, the Chancellor of Justice has proposed to bring the law of state fees and the code of civil procedure and the Code of Administrative Court Procedure into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. But before I invite the honourable Chancellor of Justice to speak, I would like to tell you how we will deal with this proposal. First of all, Chancellor of Justice Indrek Teder's presentation, which lasts up to 20 minutes, will be a presentation by the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rait Maruste, which will also last up to 20 minutes, and the latter will be a presentation by Marko Pomerants, Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, which will also last up to 20 minutes. May I have your attention, please? A member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to any rapporteur. Everyone can take part in the negotiations. Finally, we will put to the vote the question of who is in favour of the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. The adoption of the proposal requires a majority of votes in favour. Let's get started. I would like to ask the esteemed Chancellor of Justice, Indrek Teder!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-30_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Parliament! I quote at § 15: 'Everyone (I stress that everyone does. I. T.) has the right to apply to the courts in the event of violation of their rights and freedoms. ' I think this is extremely important. But can any person go to court if the court fees are too high? Article 12 of the Constitution provides very unambiguously and clearly for the fundamental right to equality. Due to the principle of equality in conjunction with § 15 of the Constitution and other rules, the person has the right to apply to the courts. At the same time, the principle of equality also provides that the state fee for recourse to the courts must be reasonable and minimal, which must not constitute an obstacle. Is this really the case in different areas? I'm sorry, I'm not. I analysed the rules of law and concluded that the legislator had not set up a standard for the courts of the claimants and judges to calculate the state fee in accordance with the Constitution, if the court found that the norm for the state fee was incompatible with the Constitution and had to set a new state fee in accordance with the Constitution. This is an important problem, which is why I ask you to change the state fees that were in force a few years ago, which were too high and therefore contrary to the Constitution. In 2012 and 2013 the Supreme Court dealt with over 50 proceedings on this subject and found that state fees were too high and therefore contrary to the Constitution. In 2014, six new requests for constitutional review of state fees have also been submitted. The problem is the issues currently being discussed in the courts, which started when the fees were very high. These cases have been followed up and will also reach the Supreme Court. It is still possible to assess the legality of the old fees thanks to the interpretation given by the courts that the question of compliance with the Constitution of the amount of state fees can be raised for a very long time. I recall that on 1 July 2012, State fees, which were much lower than in the past, entered into force. At the time, I recognised the activities of the Minister of Justice and the legislator. I also hoped that this issue of very high state fees would have ended. However, the practice showed something else. If you say that a state fee is a restriction on the right of access to the courts, it must comply with all constitutional requirements. Firstly, only the legislator can impose a restriction on the fundamental right. Secondly, the content and scope of the restriction can and must be determined by the legislator. The right must be defined and predictable and must treat everyone equally. This is not the case at the moment, but there is a gap in law. Let me give you some examples. I take the legislator's view that the higher the cost of the action, the higher the state fee. When discussing one thing, the Court found that the state fee of EUR 6391 was excessive and determined that a person would have to pay a constitutional state fee of EUR 3531. In the second case, the Court set a state fee of EUR 1 500 instead of EUR 7349, which is incompatible with the Constitution. Does that make any sense? In the following example, the two courts declared the state fee of exactly the same size, i.e. EUR 17895, to be unconstitutional and set the new state fee at EUR 1000 in one case and EUR 4154 in the other. Is this unequal treatment of persons in a similar situation not arbitrary? More examples can be seen in the table drawn up as an annex to my proposal. The current situation is, in view of the number of persons affected and the weight of the right to appeal to the courts, I find it unreasonable and contrary to the Constitution. This is a constitutional problem and requires the intervention of the legislator. I think it is reasonable to lay down a rule that the excessive state fees applicable from 1 January 2009 to 30 June 2012 should be reduced. It may be asked whether such a new norm for individuals will not create a new urge to go to court, challenge old state fees and recover money from the state. I think the answer to that question is 'no'. In general, its subjective right is protected. One important part of the principle of legality is to act within the framework of the laws and the conditions and procedures laid down therein, including time limits. If a person has been given the opportunity and time to challenge, they must be used in accordance with the applicable rules of the game. Honourable Riigikogu! I would like to stress that the problem of too high state fees is not just the absence of the above-mentioned provision, but is much greater. I consider that the rule of law does not comply with the fact that the courts, all the authorities and persons who give an opinion in constitutional review proceedings and the parties to proceedings are still dealing with the question whether the rules containing the rates of state fees applicable from 1 January 2009 to 30 June 2012 were constitutional or not. The court may essentially drown in these proceedings. The legislator could also solve this problem. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-30_U8	Thank you very much, Chancellor. Let's get to the questions. Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-30_U9	Thank you. Very honorable Chancellor of Justice! I remember when the fees were raised, they were very, very much raised. I think it was 2009. For example, we were 14 times higher than in Sweden and 6 to 7 times higher than in Russia. When these fees were lowered a few years ago, it was not so much done out of the coalition's free will. I remember that you made a report on the subject in the Riigikogu and only after that were the fees changed. But do you think that the fees currently in force are fair and compatible with the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-30_U10	I mean, after 2012? Yeah, I analyzed that too. I think this fee is up to EUR 10500 now, and it is quite high.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-30_U11	No further questions. Thank you very much, Chancellor. I now call on the Chair of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rait Maruste, to present the report. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-30_U12	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I must begin my presentation with a small remark that we in the Commission were based on the formulation of our position and preparation of the report by the Chancellor of Justice on 16 January. a written text. The text reported by the Chancellor of Justice today was somewhat amended and with other emphasis. The Chancellor of Justice presented and reasoned his proposal No 25 before the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 27 January 2014. The presentation was followed by an intensive debate during which several members of the Commission expressed doubts and different views from the point of view of the Chancellor of Justice. Members of the Commission admitted that there was a problem, but they saw its origins and solutions differently from the Chancellor of Justice. In summary, the Chancellor of Justice found that the State Fees Act, the Code of Civil Procedure and the Code of Administrative Procedure conflict with §3, 11, 12, 13 and 14, § 15 (1) and § 24 (5) of the Constitution in conjunction with them. The Chancellor of Justice considered that it was not in accordance with the Constitution that there was a rule of law which would provide for the level of the state fee to be considered in a situation where the court had failed to apply the pre-emptive rule of the state fee in force between 1 January 2009 and 30 June 2012 for reasons of constitutional illegality. In other words, the Chancellor of Justice would like the legislator, the Riigikogu, to give a constitutional state fee for the period from 1 January 2009 to 30 June 2012. But let us ask, first of all, whether the only possible solution is necessarily the provision of a new general rule or new general rules, or whether there are other options. Secondly, what is the legal rule of constitutional size? If the court has established what is not constitutional, it is logical to assume that it also knows what is or would be the constitutional solution or the amount of the fee. For a brief explanation and a reminder, I would say so much that during this period, i.e. during the economic downturn, the legislator raised the state fees significantly, which caused the problem of the possibility or inability to access the court and the court. Since 1 July 2012, state fees have been reduced, but dozens of cases have been dealt with by the courts, the decisions of which have retroactively been declared against the Constitution by high state fees. By lowering the state fees, however, the legislator did not, in the opinion of the Chancellor of Justice, provide for a 'clear and well thought-out solution for cases where a person who has applied to the court earlier (in addition, a higher state fee calculated on the basis of the Act in force before 01.07.2012)... '. This has allegedly led to legal clarity and the resulting unequal treatment, including the continued application of already invalid state fees. It is true that the right of recourse to a court is a fundamental right guaranteed by the Constitution (sections 15 and 24 (5) of the Constitution). The right to judicial protection guaranteed in conjunction with §§ 13, 14 and 15 of the Constitution includes, at the same time, both the right of a person to apply to the courts and the obligation of the State to set up appropriate legal proceedings for the protection of fundamental rights, which is fair and necessary for the effective exercise of that right. Having determined the obligation of the State, it must be asked who that State is. Is it only the legislator, in this case the Riigikogu, or is the state also the courts? Without any doubt, according to the text and doctrine of our Constitution, the state is also the courts whose intrinsic and constitutional task is to ensure uniform and uniform application of law and the protection of fundamental rights in accordance with constitutional norms and principles. After all, our courts also have a constitutional review function, and the Supreme Court has a duty to ensure uniform and constitutional application of the law through the process of cassation and constitutional review, even in a situation where the legal system has been different in time, even contradictory or ambiguous. That's what courts, including the Supreme Court, do next to the day. It is difficult to understand why uniform and constitutional application of state fees is an insurmountable difficulty. The Chancellor of Justice gave convincing examples of how, in the actual case-law, the courts considered it possible to implement, first, the rates of state fees in force until 31 December 2008, second, the new rates that have come into force since 1 July 2012 and, third, the rates of state fees which the Court itself considers to be constitutional. So there are three ways. It is difficult to understand why the Supreme Court could not generalise the problematic situation in its resolution and find a constitutional solution that would allow the situation and the specific nature of individual cases to be taken into account. This would not mean imposing new rates of state fees, but, within the framework of the legal possibilities available to the lower courts, giving interpretative guidance on existing, limited and limited cases. In this way, the response to the problem, which is a burden on the whole system, could be stopped in individual cases. The current practice is not in line with procedural economics, rationality or the intrinsic function of the Supreme Court. Finally. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs stated the existence of a problem and calls on the House to support this conclusion and the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. At the same time, we had quite a different view of how to respond to the problem. That also led to the above. State fees fall within the competence of the Committee on Legal Affairs in their substance. It is possible that the Committee on Legal Affairs, together with the Ministry of Justice, will share our conclusion or find another legislative solution that solves problems. To this end, we want the Committee on Legal Affairs to have a steel mind and strength! The debate in our committee showed this also acknowledged by the Chancellor of Justice that the retrospective application of the new fixed rate of state fees could make the situation even more difficult and lead to new disputes, both in terms of access to justice and equal treatment. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-30_U13	Thank you very much, Mr Rait Maruse. No questions for you. I call on the Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Marko Pomerants.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-30_U14	Good afternoon, Honourable Chairwoman, and ladies and gentlemen. The Committee on Legal Affairs, like the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, discussed the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice, which this time was number 25, at his meeting on 27 January. There was also a proposal made by Chancellor of Justice Indrek Teder himself with his advisor Helen Kranich. Before I go to the debate in the Committee on Legal Affairs, I will give a small answer to Mrs Tuus-Laul's question of how much is right. Anyone who is in possession of the Chancellor of Justice's proposal No 25, which, indeed, as Mr Rait Maruste has already mentioned, is by its very nature much more debatable than the previous proposal, 24 could look at the annex to the proposal to see how the Court has acted in previous cases. If we look at the amount of the charge that is incompatible with the Constitution and the amount of the state fee that has been in force since 1 July 2012, we will see that the courts have considered it possible that the constitutional fee is already between the two. I will give you an example of style: an unconstitutional fee of EUR 4400 has been considered to be illegal, but a constitutional fee of EUR 2029 has finally been found to be EUR 950. So the court has also considered it possible to have a much higher constitutional fee than this new provision in the Riigikogu. But it was kind of an interlude. The nature of the problem is probably no longer worth recounting; the previous speakers have already done so very convincingly. I'm just talking about the scumbag sections the Chancellor of Justice was talking about. From our point of view, I believe that the most important point of view of the Chancellor of Justice is Article 3 of the Constitution, which speaks of the legislator's obligation to act. All the other sections with which the contradiction has been pointed out here simply speak of a person's right to be treated fairly, to go to court, to appeal or whatever. But now I am going to the Commission's debate. Since the Chancellor of Justice came to us from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we first took an interest in what was being done there. We have received an overview of this with the help of the previous speaker today. Next, we asked the Chancellor of Justice where he was earlier. We did not do it maliciously, but, as we all know, this problem was not at all a matter of this sharpness when we dealt with the legitimate state fees that are currently in force. Even then, this problem could actually have arisen. The Chancellor of Justice said that he has dealt with the matter and addressed the Supreme Court with a proposal to recommend uniform behaviour to lower courts on the issue of the constitutional fee. This was discussed in greater detail by Mr Rait Marust in his presentation. But unfortunately, this recommendation from the Chancellor of Justice has not worked out in the judicial system, I do not know why. We were also wondering whether, in addition to those cases where the fee has been declared unconstitutional, claims against the State would be expected by analogy. In answering this question, the Chancellor of Justice in the Commission said that he doubted that this was possible. Today, as you have heard, he was very clear and said that no, that is not possible, and its causes are again due to the law and the limits of the law. Indeed, if anyone has claims, they should be presented in the law for a period of time. All other cases have been dealt with in court with 'unconstitutional fees' and no one has raised this problem during the proceedings. The Counsellor of the Chancellor of Justice added that there is also the Supreme Court's decision to make a request at the prescribed time. Speaking of possible solutions, the Chancellor of Justice felt that there could also be a specific amount, for example, EUR 1000 or less. We discussed how, if we agree with the Chancellor of Justice, the law could be filled in in the best way possible. According to the preliminary assessment of the Committee on Legal Affairs, the first solution could be a state fee law, which could provide a code of conduct on the treatment of anti-constitutional fees. Our opinion is that the introduction of some sort of fourth option, in addition to the three possibilities already available in court, is perhaps not quite adequate. This is not one animal food that is good in five different ways. Since July 2012, the state fees have largely lasted, although there is also a decision of the Supreme Court on the different treatment of applications submitted electronically and on paper in civil proceedings. In particular, the Supreme Court has declared §57 (1) and (15) of the State Fees Act to be incompatible with the Constitution and invalid in so far as it provides for the obligation to pay the state fee at a higher rate than when the application is submitted by electronic means in civil proceedings. But in general, as I said, the new fee has survived time. As a result of the debate, the Committee on Legal Affairs considered that it would recommend that the House accept the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice, but acknowledges that this solution is not as simple as it seemed to be the solution of the previous proposal 24. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-30_U15	Thank you very much, Mr Pomerants. This is about my colleague Valeri Korb.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-30_U16	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Do you think that the Chancellor of Justice comes here every week to propose to us and review the laws that we have adopted before will last for a long time? Is there anything we can do to make sure it doesn't last so long?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-30_U17	Thanks! Look at how many weeks of work the Chancellor of Justice has been in office. He is fortunate (I do not know if the word 'fortunately' is suitable for use here) but only to the 25th proposal. So it's not that bad.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-30_U18	No further questions. Once again, thank you to my colleague Marko Pomerants. Colleagues, it is now possible to start negotiations. No calls, no negotiations. We can go to the vote. Let's call our colleagues in. Ladies and gentlemen, I will vote on the question of who is in favour of the Chancellor of Justice's proposal. Please vote! 56 members of the Riigikogu voted against, with one abstention. The proposal has been accepted. Colleagues, as the Riigikogu supported the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice, pursuant to § 152 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, I hereby instruct the Legal Affairs Committee to initiate a draft to bring the legislation of the State Tax Act and the Code of Civil Procedure and the Code of Administrative Procedure into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. Closure of the sitting at 10.36 a.m.
