ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-11_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the session of the seventh working week of the seventh plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Does Rait Maruste have anything to say?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-11_U2	Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-11_U3	Got it! Then you should have pushed up there, but welcome! Please, Rait Maruse!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-11_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Committee initiates a draft law amending the Riigikogu Election Act and other laws, which specifies and organises the procedure for the technical conduct of voting in the Riigikogu, the local government council and the European Parliament elections and referendums. The purpose of the Act is to bring electoral laws into line with time and to simplify voting and application procedures. In recent elections, there have also been issues in the implementation of the law that need to be clarified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-11_U5	Thank you. On behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted a draft law. The Management Board decides to accept this procedure in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. Let's go to the messages. On Wednesday, 12 March, the following members of the government will attend Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aaviksoo and Minister of Culture Urve Tiidus. Ladies and gentlemen, please let's do a presence check. 82 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present; no 19.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-11_U6	Let's go to today's agenda. The first point is the first reading of the draft 543 of the Riigikogu decision "Proposal for the Government of the Republic" submitted by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. I'll introduce you to the procedure for handling the bill. First, the author of the draft report is up to 20 minutes, followed by questions. Then the representative of the commission will be present for up to 20 minutes, followed by questions. A member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to each of the rapporteurs. Then there will be negotiations, amendments and a final vote. We are based on the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party to the Government of the Republic. For a presentation, please address a member of the Riigikogu Olga Sõtnik!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-11_U7	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, there are still cases in Estonia where newborn children lose their parents' care. This is because, for some families with lower incomes, having a child is merely a source of income. Thus, children get neglected, suffer empty stomachs, and suffer ill treatment. Poverty is the main factor that prevents a child from living a decent life. According to Statistics Estonia, 17% of Estonian children lived in relative poverty and 9.5% in absolute poverty in 2011. This is a painful problem that affects not only children living in poverty but also their parents and other members of society who are responsible for them. It must be avoided that parents plan to have children only for the purpose of receiving social benefits. The health surveillance system for Estonian children, especially young children, is built solely on the responsibility of the parent. Family doctors must follow the instructions for monitoring the health of the child, which specify in detail which stages of their child's life are to be examined. At the same time, parents are not obliged to take their children to a doctor for medical examination. According to family doctors, there are many children in Estonia whose health and development they do not have an overview of. The Estonian Association of Family Doctors sees the problem as one possible solution, that only parents who regularly check with their children receive public and local benefits. As a result, the Estonian Central Party Group passed a draft decision in this Chamber on 20 November last year to propose to the Government of the Republic a set of measures and to initiate a legislative amendment linking the national parental benefit to the child's medical examination. I will give you some examples of other countries where such measures are being taken. For example, in Austria, universal child benefit is paid only when the future mother was pregnant and continues to undergo a total health check ten times after the birth of the child. In Hungary, a universal birth grant is paid if the woman has had at least four medical examinations before childbirth. In Finland, the universal birth grant and child allowance are linked to the pre-natal medical examination requirement. A woman whose pregnancy has lasted at least 154 days will receive maternity benefit, but she must have checked with her doctor at the end of the fourth month of pregnancy at the latest. In Luxembourg, the child benefit is divided into three equal parts, one part being paid before the birth of the child and two parts later in the form of maternity benefit. The condition for this allowance is that the mother and child must undergo repeated medical examinations: five times before the child's birth, the first time during the first three months of pregnancy, and six more times after the birth before the child's second year of life. In Great Britain, support is linked to the condition that the mother provides a certificate signed by a recognised health professional that a professional medical professional has introduced to her the possibilities and requirements of pre-natal care related to the health and well-being of the newborn. In France, three medical examinations are required: the first week after the birth of the baby, the ninth week of life and the second year of age. The examination certificate allows for income-based child benefit until the child reaches three years of age. A similar conditional child benefit policy will be implemented in Germany and Australia. Now, however, I come back to a specific draft decision. The Ministry of Social Affairs has assessed that children's health checks are really very important, but from the point of view of children's well-being, this issue should be considered as part of a broader "previous intervention system." In other words, they do not support this bill and believe that it is possible to ensure early intervention within the already existing system, with the help of the social authorities of local authorities. Unfortunately, we know very well that since we do not have a compulsory residence registration, sometimes social authorities do not know that families in their territory whose children need special attention. Children who have been neglected have quite often been discovered in Estonia. Families have migrated from one local government to another, and neither family doctors nor social authorities know anything about their problems. The financial stimulus we have offered would cause such parents to worry more about the health and well-being of their children. Ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely hope that we all have the will to discuss this draft decision constructively. I also hope that you will support this. The well-being of Estonian young children should be a matter for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-11_U8	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? Please, Peep Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-11_U9	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! When preparing the draft and imagining the future position of the Government of the Republic, have you also thought that perhaps, in addition to going to the doctor's office, support should somehow be linked to vaccination?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-11_U10	Thank you very much. No further questions for the rapporteur. Next, I would like to ask for a co-presentation of the Chair by the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, Margus Tsahkna.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-11_U11	Thank you for your question. No, we have not thought about linking vaccination to receiving parental benefit. Personally, I've been vaccinating my children, I think it's right and necessary. And vaccination will only have a wider effect if most people have been vaccinated. However, since it is now voluntary, we have not recommended that it be linked to receiving parental benefit.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-11_U12	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good coworkers! The draft decision was discussed by the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu at 543 meetings of two committees: 28 January and 10 February. By 10 February, the Government of the Republic submitted its position on the draft. I will say in advance that the Commission has decided to propose a final vote on the draft in the Chamber. Since this is a 51 vote bill, the decision of the hall is whether or not to propose to the Government of the Republic. When we talk about the substance of the matter, indeed, one of the main weaknesses of the Estonian social system is that we do not really know what situation our children are in. We know about their birth, but after that, the child is very often lost in our sight. That is why we are thinking of families that have greater difficulties in coping with them, whether for economic or social reasons, because of their parents' behavioral problems. The latter may be even more effective than economic reasons, because we have free medical care. You can still see a family doctor. Indeed, many children are not registered with a family doctor when they are born. This means that they are not included in any of the family medical records, and no family doctor has any reason to examine how he or she is in health or in what situation he or she is in. The debate in the Committee on Social Affairs recognised that we understand this concern in principle. Those who propose a decision are entitled, in this sense, to the fact that, by linking parental benefit or other family benefits with the obligation to go to the child for medical examination for a certain period of time, this would motivate the parents to show their child to the doctor. On the other hand, today's measures are such that a family doctor and a family nurse are able to understand the social situation in one home or another as a result of certain questions and as a result of external observation. Personally, I support this proposal in essence. Whether this regulation is going to be like this, we'll see. This is a proposal for the Government of the Republic to develop certain measures. If we look at the Government of the Republic's own positions, the Ministry of Social Affairs states that there really is a problem. At the same time, the opinion is expressed that perhaps this would be too radical a step towards linking parental benefit to this obligation. The Ministry is proposing a little more lenient options, which I think is the minimum we have to do. It would be an obligation to register a child on the list of family doctors, either in the maternity home or just after birth. The family doctor would then know that this child exists, and if the parent doesn't show up with the child, the family doctor could invite him himself. I think that's the minimum we have to do. In fact, on the basis of already existing legislation, it is possible to limit the payment of different family benefits if the parent does not use this money to look after the child. If it is known with certainty that parents are not caring for their child, the payment of child and other family benefits can already be limited. At the same time, we are talking about a very small proportion of parents and children. Most parents go to a doctor with their children and take care of them. The catch is that children's guards or social workers do not really have information on the basis of which the decision to limit the payment of benefits was made in the existing Code. They just don't have an overview of the life situation of all children. It is therefore worth considering the proposal made by the Centre Party very seriously. Whether to support only if, as has been proposed here in the proposal to the Government of the Republic, it is up to you to decide. But I hope the new government will address this issue. It seems to me that for the people we are talking about, and for their children, every euro from family allowances is very important, and maybe this will give us a better overview of the situation of the children. Perhaps another point that has been through the Committee on Social Affairs during the debate on other issues. And specifically, we should re-establish mandatory home visits of family doctors or at least family nurses to young children. This would ensure that children's health is monitored and could be seen directly by the situation in their homes. Today's methodology has evolved so far that, when family nurses and family doctors are trained, the relatively simple questions they present give the entire Estonian social system an adequate picture of the situation in our homes. When we look at what our social system is built on, we see that very often we react to the consequences rather than do preventive or preventive work. I think that if this idea were implemented, it would help us in quite a number of cases to alleviate child poverty or their social disadvantage. It could also help to detect family violence in seemingly normal families when looking around home and when interviewing family members, it is possible to gather a lot of information. The decision that will be made on this particular proposal is in your hands. As Chairman of the Social Committee, I would like to thank the Central Party Group for bringing this issue back to us. I'm sure it's worth thinking about.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-11_U13	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-11_U14	Thank you. You said you supported this bill yourself. How, then, did it happen that the Commission did not support it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-11_U15	The Commission did not take a position. We have done so in the Committee on Social Affairs that when it comes to a proposal to the Government of the Republic, the Commission will discuss it and write down its comments. As this is a single reading and a so-called '51 votes' draft, the Chamber will decide whether or not to adopt the draft as a decision. Therefore, the Commission did not take a position on whether it was against or in favour.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-11_U16	Please, Väino Linde!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-11_U17	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! If this is not a very big secret, what is your position as committee chairman on this matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-11_U18	As I said, I personally rather support the country's somewhat more concrete and harsh behaviour. After all, we support people and pay family and child benefits. The vast majority of parents behave responsibly, but also those who do not behave responsibly receive child and family benefits under general conditions. I believe that, in this respect, the state should behave more rigorously and link the disbursement of grants to the parent's compliance with his or her obligations. That's my personal position. At the same time, the question is whether to solve this problem by proposing to the Government of the Republic to develop some kind of regulation. It's a place of consideration, and I guess everyone makes their own decision. But the essence of the proposal is very good for me.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-11_U19	Thank you. Please, Rein Lang!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-11_U20	Thank you. Good Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee! I want to ask you a question to go on. Do you think that the Estonian state has the right or even the obligation to impose any obligations on parents that are incompatible with their religious beliefs?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-11_U21	Good questioner! I do not understand how this issue concerns a specific draft, but there is freedom of religion in Estonia and we do not have a'state church'. So surely we must not influence and harass people for religious reasons.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-11_U22	Thank you. No further questions for the rapporteur. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. No amendments to the draft were received. The commission's proposal was for a final vote on a draft of 543. Ladies and gentlemen, since this bill requires a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu to be adopted, we will first do a verification of the presence. 54 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, 47 are missing. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Proposal for the Government of the Republic" submitted by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party 543. Please take a stand and vote. 33 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 4 against and 4 abstentions. The proposal was not sufficiently supported and the draft falls outside the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-11_U23	Today's second item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on public water supply and sewerage initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask Karel Rüütel, vice-chair of the Environment Commission, for a presentation!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-11_U24	Honourable participants! Draft 569 was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 13 January 2014. The first reading was closed on 29 January 2014, the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 12 February 2014. The amendments were received from the members of the Riigikogu, Tõnis Kõiv and Rein Randver, and the Environment Committee also finalised two proposals. During the period between first and second reading, the draft has been discussed at two meetings of the Committee on the Environment. For the first time on 17 February 2014, the Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of the Environment, Harry Liiv, and Galina Danilishina, water specialist, and Eda Pärtel, Head of the Legal Department participated. Veiko Kaufmann, Chairman of the Management Board of the Environmental Investment Centre, also participated. The authors of the amendments presented their proposals to the members of the committee, followed by a discussion. As the amendments very clearly concern municipalities and possible additional obligations for them and their sub-offices, one proposal was not to move forward with the draft before further views were received from both the associations of municipalities and the umbrella organisation of water undertakings. The question was how fast the draft procedure might be if the Ministry agreed that there would be a slight delay. The Ministry responded positively, perhaps he agreed. A more serious debate broke out in the Commission on how long socio-economic indicators should be predicted and population projections made. Maybe 12 years is too long. The representatives of both the Ministry and the Environmental Investment Centre pointed out that in fact it is extremely important to be able to assess the whole picture and vision. It was therefore decided that the local governments would also be asked what they thought of the amendments. The Commission received a letter from Tallinna Veelt. Tallinna Vesi proposed to consider supplementing the draft in a way that would allow a solution to the dispute between AS Tallinna Vesi and the Competition Board. Tallinna Vesi pointed out that the parties had discussed possible agreements in the course of the proceedings, while the Competition Authority's assessment that the current Law on public water supply and sewerage did not allow them to compromise for legal reasons prevents finding a solution. To solve the issue, Tallinna Vesi turned to the Environment Committee. However, since there were no specific proposals in the letter of Tallinn Water, the Commission found it unreasonable for us to intervene in this dispute at the moment. At the same time, we are certainly ready to take this matter forward and meet with representatives of both the Competition Board and Tallinn Vee. We will not resolve this issue with the draft of 569. It was decided to take note of all the information, but the amendments proposed by the members of the Riigikogu were sent to the Association of Estonian Cities, the Association of Estonian Rural Governments and the Association of Estonian Water Enterprises. These decisions were all taken by consensus. The proposal was to continue the debate on 25 February. At the second meeting of the Commission, which took place on 25 February, Deputy Chancellor Harry Liiv was present from the Ministry of the Environment, chief specialist of the Water Department's project office Rita Jürmann, Managing Director of the Estonian Association of Water Enterprises Vahur Tarkmees, Chairman of the Management Board of the Environmental Investment Centre Veiko Kaufmann, consultant of the Estonian Union of Cities Irja Alakiv and advisor to the Association of Estonian Rural Governments Aare Vabamägi. The amendments were already specifically discussed at this meeting. For most of the proposals, there was a joint section between stakeholders and the Ministry of the Environment. Once again, the issue of how long the projections of potential impacts must be made over a period of time was more serious than the question of whether 12 years is a good time or whether the impact should be assessed for a shorter period of time. It was also discussed whether these forecasts should be regional or local government-specific. As a result of this discussion, the Chairman of the Committee on the Environment proposed that the text should replace the local authority with the county and that it would still be left with forecasts and estimates for 12 years. In addition, there was a dispute as to when the amendment provisions should enter into force. At the end of the Commission meeting, it was agreed that the deadline would be 1 January 2015. The amendments were finalised, voted and finally adopted by consensus. The procedural decisions were as follows: to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on 11 March, to propose that the second reading be closed and, when the second reading is closed, to send the draft to the third reading by 13 March 2014. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-11_U25	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-11_U26	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, I've been working pretty hard on developing public water supply and sewerage in my town. I have always wondered how many conditions have been put in place for some projects that nobody really needs. That's one thing. But second of all, there's no way to predict that far ahead. On the first page of the draft, point 2 states that the plan for the development of public water supply and sewerage must have a population solvency forecast for at least 12 years. Well, who needs it? Of course, they'll figure something out, of course, they'll write some numbers, well, if that's what you want, then we'll do it, but why bother? Couldn't we simplify the regulation a little if there is such an option?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-11_U27	As I have already pointed out, this was one of the key issues in the debate on amendments in the Committee on the Environment. But the Ministry of the Environment, in particular the Environmental Investment Centre, strongly supported this provision. The aim is to receive support for the development of public water supply and sewerage from the Environmental Investment Centre programme and European Union funds. The point is that when municipalities and water companies start making these investments, they could at least try to predict and analyse the perspective of how sensible a particular investment is. Of course, it was admitted that it was difficult to make forecasts after 12 years. You have to be able to feel what's going on very deeply and consider all the possibilities. However, the draft states that more precise forecasts will be made every four years. In particular, it was a request from the Environmental Investment Centre, since proper analysis is needed before it can be obtained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-11_U28	Thank you. Please, Erki Arrow!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-11_U29	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Could you repeat to whom these conditions will apply? Is it only for those municipalities that apply for EU money or for those who do not want to receive money from the EU support funds?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-11_U30	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-11_U31	In particular, they relate to municipalities and companies wishing to receive support either from the Environmental Investment Centre or from the European Union's structural funds.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-11_U32	Thank you, Madam President. That's what I'm talking about. We've grown a real pyramid, and it's getting bigger. All these officials, the bureaucrats feed on producing themselves. They need more and more documents and all kinds of requirements to make an avalanche. It all complies with certain rules of political science. KIK says we need this kind of analysis. Oh, my God, who's gonna work there in 12 years? Who's to look at this analysis anyway? What do you think, maybe talk to local governments about it, not KIK?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-11_U33	Thank you. There is currently a regulation that these analyses will have to be carried out and submitted from July 2013. Now this regulation has been brought to the level of the law. I would also like to reiterate that the aim is, above all, to have a comprehensive picture of the impact of investments made and made on water services, water prices and the solvency of potential consumers.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-11_U34	Thank you. Please, Erki Arrow, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-11_U35	Thank you. One word would be specified: first and foremost? Do these conditions apply only to water companies seeking money from the European Union's Structural Funds or, above all, to them?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-11_U36	It is for those who seek this money.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-11_U37	Thank you very much. No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Karel Knight! Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. Four amendments to this draft have been received, and we will examine them. Amendment 1 is proposed by the Committee on the Environment, and the proposal of the commission is fully taken into account. Amendment 2 is a proposal by the members of the Riigikogu, Tõnis Kõiv and Rein Randver, proposed by the lead committee, to take account of the substance. Amendment 3 is a proposal from the Committee on the Environment, proposed by the lead committee, to take full account. Amendment 4 is a proposal by the members of the Riigikogu, Tõnis Kõiv and Rein Randver, proposed by the lead committee, to take account of the substance. The amendments have been examined. The commission's proposal was to conclude the second reading of draft 569. Second reading is over. Ladies and gentlemen, today's agenda is exhausted and the session is closed. See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 10.40 a.m.
