ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the Question Time which we will conduct in accordance with § 146 of the Home and Working Procedures Act. Please, let's do the presence check! 43 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 58 are missing. Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, Minister of Culture Urve Tiidus and Minister of Social Protection Helmen Kütt will participate in the Question Hour. Seven respondents registered yesterday, but I think we need to give two additional questions for each point from the floor. Please, let's work fast! The additional question is one minute, two minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U2	The first questioner is Urmas Reinsalu, the question is for Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U3	Respectable Prime Minister! The representatives of the Reform Party have called the IRL a dangerous idea of reform of the tax exemption for low-paid people. My question is as follows. Given that there are over 300,000 people in Estonia who earn a monthly salary of less than EUR 850, why does the Reform Party consider the idea of releasing small-paid people from a higher tax burden to be dangerous? They'd be better off if they did. I can tell you that 70,000 people have already responded to the IRL poll on this subject, who have not considered this idea dangerous, but have said that this has to be done. Why do you think it's dangerous?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U4	By the way, I never said that, and I don't know any other reform party who would have said that either. But I do remember that the IRL itself sometimes organises gatherings called dangerous ideas... something, I don't know. But I don't think if the IRL makes any sense, it has to be called dangerous. You should not even call your ideas dangerous, but it can cause you some kind of anxiety, even though there is no real reason for it. As far as this'reform' idea is concerned, the features of the reform are there, let us be honest, little. There's a positive point in that. I, too, believe that labour taxes must be reduced. But unlike the IRL, I believe that in Estonia, labour taxes must not be reduced only on the lowest wages and others not at all, as your offer is, but should be lowered by everyone. It is true that the tax burden should be lightened most in the case of lower incomes. However, the fact that the implementation of this idea would probably make the Estonian tax system the most difficult in Europe is a major downside. There will be more than 300 tax levels between the 500 euro to be earned and the 834 euro to be earned. It is an unprecedentedly complex tax system and I do not think that Estonia needs it. It is also certainly negative that every euro earned from EUR 500 to EUR 834 is taxed under this plan at a marginal tax rate of more than 40%. That is not fair to me either. So it's not a good idea at the end, but you're thinking in the right direction. The tax burden on people must be reduced.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U5	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U6	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister! It is the Reform Party's plan that is not a good idea to the end, but at least you are thinking in the right direction. If we look at the different elements of your plan, there are too few of them to help a working person and they come too late. The question is why we are taking hundreds of euros from people who earn less than 500 euros a month, and we are saying that this is a sensible measure for people to cope with. Our view is that this does not make sense. The person's tax burden is specific in size and the amount that is taken out of a person's pocket is specific money. Our proposal is very simple: a person earning less than 500 euros should not pay income tax, because it is not an income that ensures that income tax can also be paid. The former Minister of Finance of the Reform Party, Jürgen Ligi, called it a dangerous idea in a very clear formulation: reducing the tax burden on low-paid people is a dangerous idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U7	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U8	Why do you think this is a dangerous idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U9	You're agitating very strongly, but I don't see much reason for it. I see three of your constituents in this hall, and I'm sure you've already agreed to them. There's no point in agitating me that 300 tax levels are a good plan. But once again, this direction to reduce the tax burden on people who earn a small salary is correct. However, this can be done much easier, much more logically and without creating a tax system of more than 300 levels in Estonia. We have, after all, been pretty much similar in tax matters, and I would honestly say that I would be pleased if the IRL would continue to defend the right-wing positions and not come up with ideas that provide for progressive income tax. On this point, the left-wing parties, led by the Centre Party, have clapped their hands and said, "Welcome to the prostheses of progressive income tax." The same thing that you mean and which all political parties are thinking about can also be achieved by considerably increasing the tax-free minimum. This concerns everyone and makes any waged job creation more favourable. It must also be taken into account that if only the creation of low-paid jobs is made more favourable for employers, this could lead to the creation of only low-paid jobs in Estonia. This is not the kind of Estonia we want. In fact, we should reduce the tax burden on all workers, including those who earn just over EUR 500, and those who earn over EUR 800. I think that the plan that lowers labour taxes for all people is better.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U10	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U11	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! The plan to leave a working person with the money he earns is a right-wing plan, and it is a plan that stands for people's real interests. I do not agree, in principle, with the reasoning that if a person who does a decent job but earns a low wage gets more money, then only low-paid jobs are created in Estonia. That is a rather demagogic statement. If a person is left with more money, his income is greater than ours. I don't understand why the Reform Party considers this idea dangerous. What is dangerous in this case if the tax burden on low-paid people is reduced by the specific step we have proposed so that their livelihood improves? A person earning just under or over 500 euros would have a real win of 70 euros a month.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U12	You can answer that. Time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U13	It's not a dangerous idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U14	Urmas Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U15	I understand you've been through some kind of training that taught that if you call an idea dangerous ten times in a row, it'll stick to it, and others will think it's dangerous. I repeat, there is nothing dangerous about this. It's a perfectly normal idea, not a very good idea, but a perfectly normal idea. Don't you dare agite it as a dangerous idea, or people will startle you. I agree that leaving more money for a working person is the right idea and the right direction. I've already stressed that before. That is why the party I manage has proposed a doubling of the tax-free minimum rate to EUR 300, a reduction in social security contributions and a reduction in the unemployment insurance rate, which, on average, leaves more EUR 750 per person per earner per year. This, in my view, is a very significant victory, not only for those who earn less than 500 euros but also for those who earn 501 euros and more. The weakest part of your plan, in my opinion, is that it is based on tax levels. Technically, it's extremely complicated. I believe that you, too, cannot tell by heart what would be a person's tax rate if, for example, he earned 600 euros. I'm not sure it's a logical system. But leaving more money for everyone is the right way to go, and the Reform Party will certainly stand for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U16	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U17	Prime Minister! You run a government that has approved a national budget strategy for four years, which provides for an increase in the tax-free minimum by EUR 10 each year, leaving more than EUR 2 to all people, both to those who earn EUR 3000 per month and to those who earn EUR 600 per month, for example. This is a solution that does not make anyone richer, does not significantly improve anyone's livelihood, but it does make us all collectively poorer because it costs the country EUR 18 million a year. This is certainly not a sensible solution, and I would rather call it a very dangerous idea. The tax exemption for low-paid people offered by the IRL is not difficult to implement. I understand that you acknowledge here before the Riigikogu that this is beyond your senses, but believe me, you need to know basic mathematics, and a one-off readjustment in salary accounting is enough to implement it. It's not...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U18	Time's up, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U19	The question is whether you really have not understood this and acknowledge that this proposal goes beyond your mind.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U20	Honourable member of the Riigikogu! I urge you to remain solid. I believe that if you question my numeracy, you will actually insult the Faculty of Economics of the University of Tartu and the Tallinn Real School, in an attempt to offend me. You are questioning the education provided there, which I do not think there is any reason to do. Your idea is the concept of progressive income tax. There is no doubt about that, and that has been said by all parties except the IRL. That is what the Social Democrats have said, they too see in it the characteristics of progressive income tax, that is what the Centre Party has said. So there is, in fact, a consensual notion that this is the idea of applying progressive income tax. There's a lot of these steps, and it doesn't go too far. It is simply the complexity of the system that is impractical for a number of reasons. You have highlighted what is foreseen in the country's budget strategy. More importantly, in the eight months that we have been in office, our government has taken the decision to pay labour taxes by 1.6% for all those in employment, for all employees. In addition, we have increased the income tax-free minimum and decided for the following year that the average pension will still be exempt from income tax in Estonia. These are all very important changes, and for eight months this is not enough. If you want to know the plans for the future, I suggest you look at them not so much in the country's budget strategy as in the party programmes. There are two sides to the programme of my party, as I said before. On the one hand, double the tax-free minimum and, on the other hand, a reduction in social tax and unemployment insurance, which leaves an average of EUR 750 per year more for every person who goes to work and gets paid. This is a very important tax reduction.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U21	Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U22	Thank you. As a mathematician, I can also confirm that the calculation of the non-taxable part is a simple one: EUR 1000 minus salary, and that is the tax-free part until it becomes equal to EUR 154, which is exempt from income tax for all those receiving the higher salary. There's nothing complicated about that. As a programmer once, I can say that making such a computer program is easy, at least it shouldn't go too far. The question, however, is that, especially in social media, reform parties who are members of the Riigikogu have argued on several occasions that this new system would be bad because local authorities would then receive less income tax. They have made this claim with great force. As the laws currently in force say that all such costs of income tax incentives will be borne by the State, I ask whether you agree that this will not harm local authorities, or whether you intend to make the law more harmful to local governments.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U23	Thank you. You still have to answer that question, whether it causes damage to local authorities or not. And I think the more clearly you say it, the better. But there is no doubt that both this hall and the Estonian public agree that you have not provided a source of cover for your plan. I'd love to hear what they might be. I believe that all political parties should be so responsible when they go to the elections and make specific promises to the people that, at least, the most costly promises can be behind the specific places where they hope to find money to do so. It is clear that not everyone is ready to record the amount spent by 2019 with the precision of the decimal place, and there is no need for it. But we need to know for sure where, for example, the IRL hopes to cover its proposals. I believe that this is very important for the voters. So I call on both you and all the other parties to propose sources of cover for their plans. Once again, there is not much reason to talk about this idea as dangerous or non-dangerous; it is all secondary. In this plan, it is right that, like other parties, you are thinking about how to ease the tax burden on low-paid people. It is simply your solution to create an exceptionally complex system and to cancel out the current advantages of the Estonian tax system. This is not necessary and you could replace your plan with a proposal to increase the tax-free minimum. You will also understand that the same effect or even greater effect will be much easier.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U24	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U25	The next questioner is Priit Toobal, the question is Minister of Culture for Urve Tiidu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U26	Dear Chairman, Minister, thank you very much. I'm asking about the creation of a broadcasting channel in Russian. According to the plan, this channel will start operating in the second half of next year. Yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs supported the Ministry of Finance's proposal to allocate EUR 2.5 million to this channel next year, part of which goes to the production and transmission of the Russian-language television programme and part to one-off investments. However, this amount is not included in the basic budget of national broadcasting, but is intended as a one-off grant, on a proposal from the Ministry, which was also supported in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. This means that in 2016, all the money needed for the Russian-language television channel may have to be recovered from the internal resources of the broadcasting network. This is not a small amount, it costs about 4 million euros for the whole year. As a member of the Broadcasting Council, I know that this is quite a part of the broadcasting budget. Why is this amount not in the basic budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U27	Thank you very much, Priit Toobal, a honourable member of the Riigikogu. As a member of the Broadcasting Council, I understand your concerns very well. Now I'm going to explain this funding a little bit. Indeed, part of this budget is a lump sum and part is not. It is quite clear that this will be the subject of the country's budgetary strategy next spring. I will, however, take away the concern that this money must be found in the existing budget for broadcasting in the future. I cannot quite confirm this, because the country's budgetary strategy will be dealt with in the spring of next year, but in itself this agreement will exist. This whole promotion of the Russian-language information space came up only this spring, so we are a little late with our own things. But the Broadcasting Council doesn't have to worry about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U28	Priit Toobal.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. I thank you for confirming this, but as we know, elections will take place in March and the government will most likely change. Why could the Ministry of Finance not have included the money that will be used by the Russian channel in the second half of next year in the basic budget? Then the Broadcasting Council would have some kind of fortress. The Ministry and government have announced that they want to continue with this channel in 2016 and 2017 and beyond. It is now known that a one-off grant of EUR 2.5 million will be granted, but there will be no certainty for 2016. The government will change, maybe the mind will change, maybe you won't be a minister anymore, and you won't pay the price. Why couldn't it have been written down as part of the 2015 budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U30	I understand it's like a technical question. In fact, the Minister of Finance might have been able to do it a little better. Maybe it's my fault, too, that it didn't go exactly the way you offered it. Yes, you are right to point out that elections can change, it is natural in a democratic society. But in this case, these decisions are still made with a far-reaching perspective. This would be a very cardinal change if it were decided not to move forward with this programme.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U31	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U32	Unfortunately, Minister, I cannot agree with you that this is a technical matter. This is quite a fundamental question for the Broadcasting Council as to whether it is a one-off grant for the operation of this channel next year or whether it is part of the basic budget for broadcasting. But my second point of clarification concerns the progress of this process. It is known that broadcasting is a legal entity governed by public law and not a public authority. What has now happened is that the government, along with the money, has placed an order for broadcasting to open a channel in Russian. As a minister, can you now talk about independent public service broadcasting or is broadcasting becoming a state agency from which the government, by giving it money, orders a certain channel? Today, it is a Russian channel, for example, tomorrow, a channel that praises the government. Shouldn't it be the other way around? Should the initiative not have come from Parliament's Committee on Culture or the Broadcasting Council, which would have proposed to the Government of the Republic? Is it right that the executive commission a service from a legal person governed by public law?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U33	Thank you very much. To continue with the previous response, let me briefly explain that this longer plan is still being carried out during the preparation of the country's budgetary strategy for next year, which will start in the spring. As regards your question about ordering or who initiated it, I would point out that at the meeting of the cabinet, the vision of Estonian National Broadcasting was presented, how the Russian-language information space could be promoted. Three options were presented. It was approved by the broadcasting council, the board, the social council and I don't know what experts all of it was. So that's actually the way things are. You can be sure that no one is ordering a channel from the national broadcasters to praise the government. You can be absolutely sure of that. Public television and radio continue to exist. You yourself are a member of this Council and you can organise a great deal of this work. I don't know if you've experienced in the Council that someone is ordering from them. We are developing an information space in Russian, which is part of Estonia's integration programme, and the best option is that the maker, or public broadcasting, has a responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U34	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U35	Minister, thank you very much. In 23rd year of Estonia's re-independence, Estonian Television will start a Russian-speaking programme for local Russians. 23 years we have had an integration programme, 23 years have had different language learning programmes, the summaries of which have usually ended with the words that most Estonian Russians already speak Estonian and understand it very well. Does this mean that a 23-year language curriculum has failed, that we now need to start a Russian-language programme for Estonian Russians, who should be long-integrated and speak our native language? That was point one. Secondly, why will the Estonian Television, which has once failed the production of the Russian-language programme, start doing this programme? Estonian Television 2, ETV2 was to become a Russian channel. The management of Estonian Television failed it. Now the same people will be given a new order: make a new Russian program! The last money's been blown away.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U36	Heimar Lenk, with all due respect, but your time is up. Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U37	Thank you, Mr. Lenk. I'll start at the end. I don't have any record of any Russian-language program being shot through. If you do, don't keep them a secret. The promotion of the Russian-language information space and its enhancement of the Estonian language is a very conceivable step in today's society. The Estonian Public Broadcasting has made proposals on this, and I, as a minister or simply as a person, have no prejudice to possible developments. I will draw my conclusions when I have the basis for this, and I do not have it right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U38	Ene Ergma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U39	Thank you very much. Good minister! Since you're a very sympathetic politician to me, I'm not asking you to comment on my personal opinion. In fact, I think that the Estonian state does not have such financial opportunities or brains to bring this large number of Russian-speaking people who live in our Russian information space to view this new channel. But I have a question. There is a channel RTV in the package of Russian-language channels. I don't know if you know that. You know what? I'm not going to explain what channel this is, but there's a great program called Ossoboje mneje, which is being done with Ehho Mosquevõ and RTV. I'm curious how many of our Russian population are watching this program because it's a real anti-Putin program. Have you done any such research?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U40	Thank you for this question, Ene Ergma. In Estonia, media viewing and listening are closely monitored. This is part of the activities related to the integration plan. It's hard for me to say something about this particular program. I've got the paperwork in my bag, but I can't find it. I'll be happy to check there later, and I'll give you the information in a letter. As for the short line that we may not have enough competent people to do a good television program, I am quite clear that neither competence will fall from the sky. This will develop when demand is created in society and opportunities are created accordingly. You never know where these brains come from. I remember the late Urmas Ott. He didn't have any big money at first, but he had the talent to attract viewers, both Russian and Estonian. And he was known by people who speak other languages. It's a special feature of the television media. There are talents somewhere waiting to be discovered.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U41	Marko Pomerants, the number of questions I promised was full. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U42	The next questioner is Kaia Iva and the question is for the Minister of Social Protection Helmen Kütti. Please, Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U43	I will first take this opportunity to comment on the first question of this Question Time. The Prime Minister was concerned that we did not know the sources of the reform we were proposing. They have been up for several months at www.taksureform.ee, you can read from there. But now my question to Minister Hunter. In recent years Estonia's risk groups have also been able to use European food aid. Last year, 140,000 people benefited from it. It is known that this year the European Union has restructured and the Ministry of Social Affairs has kindly accepted this food distribution commitment. In the meantime, through the Ministry of Agriculture, the PRIA did so. We have received information some time ago that the Ministry of Social Affairs has failed to manage this work, and this year these people will be deprived of food aid. What is the situation now, and why has it gone so far? True, the first decisions were made during the previous minister, as we know.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U44	Thank you very much, good questioner, for this question. Indeed, the Ministry of Social Affairs did not take the job very kindly, but he accepted it because someone had to. The distribution of European Union food aid, organised by the Ministry of Agriculture and carried out by the PRIA, was not satisfied, a change of principles was called for, i.e. confirmation of such criteria so that food aid is distributed across Estonia on an equal and verifiable basis, not by every municipality in accordance with its own established principles. In this context, there is strict monitoring of the distribution of the aid. Indeed, when I started working as Minister for Social Protection on 26 March, some of the activities were already behind us and the hope was placed on the rural governments that they would coordinate the distribution of this food aid across Estonia. From there, the municipalities had to receive and distribute food aid, but again, of course, on the basis of specific rules. We've immediately gathered non-profit organizations to negotiate with them. The non-profit organisations had a very clear wish that competent and years of food aid ♪ not only the European Union but also the organisations that had distributed food aid to Estonia at all would be able to make their contribution. The Food Bank, the Association of Child-rich Families and many other organisations have been good partners for local authorities in this work. Unfortunately, in May, we received information from the Ministry of the Interior that county governments are not willing to share food aid. We actually made an offer to the PRIA from the very beginning to continue with the PRIA, but already on the basis of new criteria, to distribute this aid. To date, the situation is that we have announced procurements. In cooperation with the NGOs, it has been discussed what should be included in the food package. For example, it is not justified to pack macaroni, for example, but something that you can eat right away - a broth or a can of hot water. All this is coordinated and food aid will certainly reach people in the first quarter of next year. We also support the food bank with money. After all, they're saving food, collecting groceries in stores, which the 'best before' deadline is about to arrive, and sharing it with people.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U45	Sorry, two minutes is up! But you can talk right now because Kaia Iva is asking for more. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U46	Thank you. It is known that these conditions changed throughout Europe. It is not a question of being unhappy with the PRIA's work, but of changing conditions and re-regulation. The need to reform these regulations had long been known. If the PRIA is a body set up by the government, then of course there can be no question of whether the PRIA wants to carry out a task or not. These things must be negotiated and responsibilities can be shared wisely. Unfortunately, we are now faced with the fact that food aid will be lost this year. This summer, news came that some Member States had already confirmed their arrangements in Europe in the summer, and they will also receive this help. How can we learn from this? The second question is what kind of support will be provided for people this year. Can't say don't eat this year, eat double next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U47	Thank you for a good question, good questioner. Neither the Ministry of Social Affairs nor the municipalities say that you will not eat this year. Our municipalities have done well; they too can help people in the event of a possible emergency, so it is inevitable help or support through soup kitchens or day centres. At present, we have been able to involve non-profit organisations not only in the distribution of food aid, but a certain percentage of these amounts are also aimed at saving food products. It actually strengthens these organisations. Indeed, the Ministry of the Interior could have announced more slowly that the county governments had abandoned the organisation of food aid. This would certainly have provided an opportunity to bring this help to the people. The laws of the European countries are very different, and according to the laws of the Estonian state, a large volume of public procurement takes its time. Believe me, the officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs have done everything in their power to speed up the process by negotiating with all partners. And this aid reaches people, although it is a major change in the distribution of food aid. Indeed, it was not satisfied that this aid was distributed differently in the Member States. I think it is very right that this has been harmonised and is meant not to impose additional burdens on local authorities. At present, the Social Services and Support Data Register, or STAR, is being updated, and the local social worker has nothing to do but tick it when he formalises the need for subsistence or food aid. The lists are obtained from the Ministry of Social Affairs. In this period, there is, by the way, an additional requirement that the nationality of those in need should also be indicated. This is done by the Ministry of Social Affairs. Local authorities do not receive additional work in this form.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U48	Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U49	Of course, it is amazing to hear that the Ministry of the Interior, whose administration we have county governments, sends a signal at government level that county governments refuse to organise aid, even though it would have produced the fastest result. This, however, gives reason to submit an inquiry to the Minister of the Interior. Now, however, the question that you may find somewhat difficult to answer. But I'm sure as a minister you'll be familiar with the size of the aid that was before. You yourself have also said in a public hearing who could receive this support. Children's families, for example, have not been mentioned as a separate target group. Is it because there's less money? The Ministry of Social Affairs would have been able to apply for a higher amount for food aid, but the Ministry did not. What was the reason? Was this amount considered sufficient and the target group is to be reduced?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U50	Thank you very much for your question. This is not true, since the aid amount has not decreased compared to the previous period. In fact, the amount offered from the European Union was lower and an additional amount was requested. As far as the target group is concerned, the wealth of children in the family does not necessarily mean coping difficulties and the risk of poverty. In fact, in the case of families with children, they are single parents or families rich in children, the food aid criterion is that their income is so low that they receive income support. The family living limit will rise from 72 euros next year to 90 euros, and all families meeting this criterion will receive this help. And social workers don't have to do these calculations manually, that's what a computer program does. In cooperation with partners, people in the shelter were also included in the list. In these cases, it is not the limit of living that plays a role, but the use of any accommodation in Estonia. These people are often without an entry, moving around, but they should definitely get food aid.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U51	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U52	Dear Minister, I am very pleased that from next year, the Government Coalition will increase the allowance for the first and second children to EUR 45 per month and the allowance for each next child to EUR 100 per month, as well as the need-based family allowance. But not all children have the happiness of growing up at home with their mother and father. I know you've done everything in the ministry to enable such children to grow at least in a care family. Will care families also improve so that they can take in more children so that they know what it is to grow up in a real family?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U53	Thank you for your question. Indeed, the so-called bounty of children growing in caring families and families will also increase next year. It has been EUR 191,80 since 2008, with an increase of 25% since the new year, to an amount of EUR 240. Children who grow in a family on the basis of such contracts are in Estonia 2000. There will also be a rise in children's bounty and employees' wages. Child benefit increases to 45 euros for the first and second children. Based on the RAKE study at the University of Tartu, it has been concluded that taking into account the special needs of children without parents, they will require a minimum of €28285 per month. If the allowance per child is 240 euros, the sum of the allowance and the higher allowance will ensure that the necessary amount is available.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U54	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U55	Thank you. As it is a matter of social protection, I am asking a question on this issue. I've been going around Southeast Estonia a lot lately. There are stories that very many people understand that all the latest social protection laws adopted in the Riigikogu should alleviate the situation of people who need help. At the same time, many people who should be in possession of this subject are spreading information to the contrary: all these laws seem to make people's situation worse. As your minister, how do you think people don't have true information? Can you explain again today what still gets better with these laws? The information field that exists in South-East Estonia is full of very conflicting opinions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U56	Thank you very much for the question, I am delighted to do so. There was already an increase in child benefit for ten years, which was EUR 19.18 for the first and second children, and now it is increasing to EUR 45, and for the third and each of the next children, the universal monthly child benefit will be EUR 100. It is also important that there is a real increase in the need-based family allowance, which has been EUR 9.59 for one child so far, but is going to be EUR 45. And if there are two or more children, an additional 90 euros will be added to the family. All of this must make it easier for families with children to cope. Child poverty is the subject of the EAPN this year and of the whole of Europe. When calculating income support, children will be treated as the first member of the family from 1 January 2015, i.e. the allowance will be 90 euros instead of 72 euros. If the father or mother raises three children alone, the first family member received an allowance of 90 euros, and for each of the next, 72 euros. Three children received an amount equal to 3 x 72 euros. From the new year, the allowance for such a family will be EUR 4 x 90, which will certainly make it easier to cope. Older people's pensions rise by 5.9% from 1 April. But it is important to consider that the minimum rate of income tax-free increases to 374 euros, which means that Estonia's average pension is exempt from income tax. Although this is not the line of the Ministry of Social Affairs, I would also like to point out that 22000 young people studying in upper secondary schools will receive free school meals. I mean, it's going to be one-to-one. For 78 cents to be paid up to class, but still 22000 upper secondary school students also have the opportunity to complete the entire school food reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U57	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U58	The next questioner is Andres Herkel and the question is Prime Minister Taavi to Clothes. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U59	Prime Minister! You have quite strongly criticised Tallinn Television and called its maintenance for the misuse of taxpayers' money, in which I completely agree with you. But if you condemn the abuse of public resources at one level, it makes sense that you condemn it at another level. That's my question. How do you feel about the fact that taxpayers' money is allocated to political parties in Estonia, which, given the size of GDP, exceeds several percentage points, which is common practice in European countries, and, moreover, gives parties already represented in Parliament an unduly disproportionate competitive advantage? Why, as Prime Minister, have you not taken steps to stop this politically-interested state theft? I am asking, even in the context of the state budget for the coming year, that EUR 2 to 3 million could certainly be used much more efficiently.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U60	As you well know, the system of funding for political parties has not been developed in the last eight months, when the government that I manage has been in office. However, we have made changes to this system which, to a certain extent, improve the status of parties that are excluded from the Riigikogu. They will be able to receive more support if they do not exceed the threshold. If they receive 2 to 3% of the votes, then the budget allocation will be 30000 euros per year for them, if 3 to 4% of the votes, then they will be excluded from the Riigikogu, but will receive 60000 euros per year. A party that is close to the threshold and is awarded 4 to 5% of the voting rights may receive a grant of EUR 100000 per year in the future. I believe that, to a certain extent, it will equalise the situation and improve the opportunities for new entrants. In addition to these concrete steps, we have made several other changes that increase competition in the Riigikogu. Given that all political parties have their own interests in Parliament, I think it is very positive that the Riigikogu has made decisions to increase competition against narrow party interests. I certainly think of them as a reduction in the number of members required to register a party, as well as a number of other decisions that have been taken. I believe we have moved in the right direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U61	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U62	Prime Minister! You read things that we all know. You did not comment on why this money is being allocated to Estonia at an extremely high level. However, you are now a prime minister, and that is not the case that we once introduced Urmas Reinsalu. You have said that there are much more important issues related to national defence in Estonia than your recent ad in Ämari. Agree, but with this admission, that your advertising was also of exceptional significance as an abuse of public resources, which created an unequal competitive situation. Please tell me when we're getting out of this world of Orwell, where some are equal, others are even more equal! And what steps should be taken to ensure free political competition in Estonia? I would point out that no money will be made available to the new political parties. And please don't tell me you let a representative of an extra-parliamentary party take up positions in your office.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U63	I wasn't gonna say it, but since you reminded me of it, you might as well talk about it. A journalist asked me that if the chairman of a political party wanted to make his ad clips in the office of the Prime Minister of Estonia at my disposal, would I let him? I said I would, I wouldn't make any obstacles. This opportunity has already been taken up by the head of the EKRE, and if there are more requests, we will probably find that opportunity for them as well. If it doesn't interfere with the work of the State Chancellery, I don't see any obstacle. With regard to this ad I have made, an ambulance, for example, has been used as a public resource. This has been done correctly and the ambulance can be shown to everyone else in the same way. I know that other parties have also filmed in hospitals and many other places. What is very important is that permission for advertising was sought, and that authorisation was granted. I have not said this before, and I do not consider it necessary to emphasise it, but personally I do not really think it is right that other parties are not allowed to do so. I think everyone should have the same opportunities. In order not to allow other parties to Ämari, I have not decided. But I accept that decision. I accept that the person who made this decision has the authority to do so, and so be it. If we come back to supporting political parties from the state budget, it must be said that it had its root cause why the whole system was made that way years ago. One reason I know was to reduce political party dependence on sponsors. This dependence can certainly be reduced through support from the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U64	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U65	Thank you, Prime Minister. You've quite well acquired the ability to dodge the question. But I'll try again. How do you comment on the fact that, in the case of parties with a very large membership, including the Reform Party, membership fees represent a little more than 1% of all incomes and 80% or even 80% or even overtake from the state budget, but in the case of new parties with a small membership, the proportion of membership fees is 50% or is approaching it? Where is this equality right here? And how do you explain that candidates for some political parties will pay bail out of their own pockets in the forthcoming elections, that the representatives of other political parties will simply take that money out of the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U66	All political parties must equally take out of their budget the money that goes on bail and campaign. It must be admitted that, in order to receive greater public support, the party must receive the support of voters, the trust and representation of voters in Parliament, in accordance with the current procedures and in the future. That's how it's been. Once again, I was not involved in the development of this system, and I do not know all the reasons for this. It's a little inappropriate to ask me. But when I prepared to answer that question, I looked into the situation in other countries of the European Union. The systems are quite similar to those of Estonia, we must say. There are nuanced differences. In some countries a specific amount has been allocated for the number of votes, for example in Germany and Portugal. In some countries, such as Finland, the amount allocated corresponds to the votes collected in the parliamentary elections. In Finland, the total support for political parties is 8 to 9 times higher than in Estonia. But Finland is also a wealthier country and there are more residents, so I believe that the proportion is more or less the same given the standard of living and the size of the country. There are also many countries where there are very interesting differences. In Sweden, for example, part of the operating grant is dependent on whether or not the party belongs to the government. And as incredible as it may seem to us it may seem incredible, but there is probably a reason for this, in Sweden, a party belonging to the government will automatically receive more support for each specific mandate, etc. There are different systems, but the general principles are quite similar in my opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U67	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U68	The next questioner is Valeri Korb, the question is for Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U69	Mr Prime Minister! Two days ago, we learned that the Viru Chemistry Group board decided to close down a part of the company. In this regard, 200 people may be unemployed. If it were about a company whose performance was not as good as that of the Viru Chemistry Group, there might not be a question, but we remember that the Viru Chemistry Group was awarded a diploma by our president a few years ago, which was written in black in white: 'Estonia's best entrepreneur'. I'd like to hear from you, Prime Minister, what's going on in the Viru Chemistry Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U70	Viru Chemistry Group is undoubtedly a very important company in Estonia, not only in the context of Ida-Virumaa, but in the context of Estonia as a whole. There are very few companies that have invested so much money over the ten years to develop production and create jobs, as well as to protect the environment. I'm sure it's impressive, and it's a big deal that Viru Chemistry Group has been able to implement. Of course, it is regrettable that due to the fall in oil prices, the production of older types of the Viru Chemistry Group, i.e. plants based on Kiviter technology, will become uncompetitive. It is not possible to keep these two plants running at this price, it is not possible to make a profit on production, and so it is that some 100 people, as has been heard from the latest news, cannot continue their work. Of course it's a problem, there's no doubt about it. I understand that in part the Viru Chemistry Group's own investment in the third Petroter plant, which is more modern, alleviates the problem. As far as I understand this production specificity, this technology is so much more effective that it is possible to keep the Petroter plant profitable even at lower oil prices. But yes, it must be admitted that the very rapid fall in oil prices has caused problems for the Viru Chemistry Group, and of course this problem is not just for Ida-Viru County, but for Estonia as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U71	Marko Pomerants, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U72	Thanks! As we know, the catch in this whole story is that apart from oil prices, it is also about the distribution of oil shale resources. What is your recommendation as Prime Minister to the Minister for the Environment, Mati Raidma with the roots of Isaac? We have, on the one hand, 20 million tonnes of mining per year, 15 million being used. There's one company that only has problems, and it's another company that owns the state and has the stone. Do you see any way to create opportunities for all businesses so that they can at least compete equally with each other using oil shale as a resource?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U73	That is a very correct question. We understand, of course, that we will not solve the issue of oil prices. But what you have said is a parallel problem, which the VKG itself has pointed out in the past. When I visited Viru Keemia Group's company, they also stated that there are no levers for influencing oil prices in Estonia. But this is a specific subject that could be addressed. The mining volume agreement, if I remember correctly, will be in force since 2008 or has been in force for quite a while. Indeed, the current situation is that the limit is divided so that the Viru Chemistry Group cannot mine as much as they would like. The stone they buy is more expensive for them than the stone they mine. What, then, can we do about it? I remember that when we wrote in quite general terms in the coalition agreement that we should consider how to distribute oil shale or how to distinguish oil shale as a resource from production, even this thought of considering was strongly attacked as the destruction of Eesti Energia. I don't think any analysis would automatically break anything, but then our political opponents reacted very strongly. What could be the solution right now? One way is still to consider whether the oil shale resource, which is State-owned, should be separate in some way. You can discuss it. It shouldn't be taboo. But I believe that the quicker solution would be for the Competition Authority to take a position on whether the current situation is in line with the law and correct. If they can do that, it might solve the problem to some extent.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U74	Valeri Korb gets the chance to ask another question and the Prime Minister only one answer. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U75	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! We know that Eesti Energia offers its company an oil shale price of 12 euros, for Viru Keemia Group 35 euros. How do you comment on the difference? Do you think this is the right position in this state?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U76	I'm sure you'll understand that this price isn't being set at government level, but it has raised questions in me, too. That is why I said that I see an opportunity for the Competition Authority to take a position on whether, by selling within the group at one price and selling outside at another price, the conduct is correct. I certainly do not want to be the person who, as Prime Minister to a state-owned company, prescribes how they must act. For this purpose, the company has its own board of directors, board of directors and general meeting. I believe that this should include possible instructions. The new company manager has publicly stated that they are prepared to negotiate this price. I believe they are not interested either in reducing the output of the Viru Chemistry Group. Viru Chemistry Group is a competitor of Eesti Energia in oil production, but it is also a customer of Eesti Energia, consuming the oil shale that Eesti Energia mins. Hopefully, Eesti Energia is interested in ensuring the well-being of the Viru Chemistry Group. This is in the interests of the economy of the region and the economy of Estonia as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U77	Question Time is over. I'm sorry, Marika Tuus-Laul and Inara Luigas, but our Question Time is over! Thanks to the members of the government!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U78	Honourable Riigikogu! If there is a desire to hand over drafts and enquiries, now is the time. Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U79	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to report an inquiry to the Minister of Agriculture, Ivari Padar. Last week, the Estonian state signed a memorandum of understanding with Belarus, which basically opens up the possibility for our food producers to export more to Belarus. This is particularly the case for fish and dairy products. In this regard, however, there was a problem that our Foreign Trade and Business Minister, Anne Sulling, felt that, given the current sanctions, this would not make sense. We therefore want to put three questions to the Minister for Agriculture and pass on this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U80	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U81	Ladies and gentlemen, I will submit to the proceedings of the Riigikogu the draft law on widow's pension initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group. Its purpose is to establish another fifth pension category, which would give one of the spouses who are old-age and whose spouse has died a choice of either their own pension or their spouse's pension, if this is higher. It is quite typical that one spouse has a higher pension than the other. Very many women have raised children, and so they do not have the same professional experience as their men; some women receive only national pensions. It would be justified and fair if such people were to receive their late spouse's pension. There is an interesting story in itself about how this bill came into existence in the first place. I met voters in Narva and what to deny was mostly older people. We discussed the Estonian pension system and how pension payments are organised in other countries. That was where the concept of widow's pension arose. So this is a public initiative. I have a lot more pages than what I'm showing you right now. Over 700 people have approached me with a request to initiate this bill, and that is what I am doing now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U82	I have adopted a bill and an inquiry. Both are dealt with in accordance with the rules of procedure laid down by law. Now we're going to do a presence check. 77 members of the Riigikogu are present, 24 is missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U83	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of the draft Act amending the Emergency Status Act, the Emergency Act and the Order of the Defence Forces Act, initiated by the National Defence Commission. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote. Draft 719 requires a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu for adoption, so we will do a verification of the presence. 73 members of the Riigikogu are present, 28. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Honourable! I am voting on the draft Act amending the Emergency Status Act, the Emergency Act and the Order of the Defence Forces Act 719, initiated by the National Defence Committee. Please take a stand and vote. There are 76 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting bill 719; there is no one against it, there are no abstentions. The Act amending the Emergency Act, the Emergency Act and the Order of the Defence Forces Act has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U84	Our next item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Defence Forces Service Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Act on the Implementation of the Defence Forces Service Act and the Act on the Organisation of Health Services. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The commission has proposed a final vote on draft 721. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Defence Forces Service Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Act on the Implementation of the Defence Forces Service Act and the Act on the Organisation of Health Services 721. Please take a stand and vote. There are 76 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft 721 and there are no respondents or abstentions. The Act amending the Defence Forces Service Act, the Act implementing the Defence Forces Service Act and the Health Services Organisation Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U85	The next item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Ordering of Arts Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote. With your permission, we shall proceed to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Ordering of Arts Act initiated by the Government of the Republic 735. Please take a stand and vote. There are 72 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft 735 and no one is against or impartial. The Act amending the Ordering of Arts Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U86	Our next item is the third reading of the draft Act amending the State Budget Act 2014 initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Rannar Vassilyev, Chairman of the Monetary Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U87	Ladies and gentlemen, I did not find my name on this yellow paper, but I will nevertheless give an overview of what has been happening in the Commission in the meantime with the draft law amending the 2014 State Budget Act. The Committee on Finance discussed the draft in preparation for the third reading on 12 November and 1 and 2 December. The aim of the draft is to adjust the budget drawn up last autumn so that the objectives set by the public authorities can be achieved in the changed circumstances. The deadline for submitting amendments, which was 17.15 p.m. on 17 November, was one amendment received from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the Commission itself, in cooperation with the ministries, also drafted one amendment. Linguistic and technical changes have also been made to the text of the third reading of the draft. Now for the amendments. Following the decision of the Supreme Court regarding the settlement of private schools, the ad hoc grants of the Ministry of Education and Research are allocated to the budget, which is intended to cover the possible claims of local governments. The cover source is the resources released by Riigi Kinnisvara AS from the specification of the budget for financial costs, the remaining amount of student grants resulting from a smaller number of students, the residual amount of costs related to the reimbursement of school loans to parents of children with a deep disability due to the smaller number of applicants than planned, and the balance resulting from the transfer to 2015 of activities related to the operating grant of private schools and the organisation of contracts with legal persons. The funding is also allocated to the University of Tartu Hospital and North Estonia Regional Hospital to cover networking costs of 2 million euros. The Commission took the following consensual decisions: to put the draft on the agenda for Wednesday, 3 December, to close the third reading and to put it to a final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U88	Any questions for the waitress? Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U89	Thank you. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. You went over the amendments quite quickly. Can you explain the resources the Ministry of Education found in the 4 million that need to be transferred to local authorities to comply with the judgment? Where did these free resources come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U90	Thank you. I read them, but I'll read them again, maybe it'll be easier to understand. This money comes from funds released by Riigi Kinnisvara AS from the specification of the budget for financial costs, the remaining amount of student grants resulting from a smaller number of students, the remaining amount of costs related to the reimbursement of school loans to parents of children with a deep disability due to a smaller number of applicants than planned, and the transfer of activities related to operating support for private schools and the organisation of contracts with legal persons to 2015, i.e. the resulting balance. These are the sources of cover where the Ministry of Education and Research has found the money to comply with the judgment relating to private schools.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U91	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U92	There was one particularly large surplus of 2.2 million, which the Ministry of Education could now use at the end of the financial year. What area did it come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U93	To be honest, I can't find this number right here at this point. I can't see that there's some kind of calculus. But all the changes we have are listed in this table, and you can see what's interesting from here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U94	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U95	Thank you, manager. I understand we're at the third reading. Are we still dealing with the right bill? Can I ask questions at third reading?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U96	Is this a question for me? Yes, in the case of the state budget, you can. Any more questions for the waitress? Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U97	Thank you. Dear waitress, I understand that you had a longer debate on the financing of private schools in the Commission. Can you tell me in two sentences what this plan is in the long run? Right now, we're doing a back-up, using the leftovers. In the coming years, are we going to take account of the surplus in the case of education grants, just in case, or how are we going to proceed?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U98	I will take this opportunity to clarify the 2,2 million origins that have been pre-quicked. Indeed, this figure right here is 2220000. These are ad hoc grants, with a balance of 2.2 million to cover these costs. However, yes, we have discussed this issue in the Commission both in the context of the 2014 budget and in the context of the 2015 budget. At present, EUR 4 million will be solved. This amount should, according to today's knowledge, cover funds that are expected to be missing in the near future, but a more far-reaching perspective is likely to require some further adjustment. However, the issue has been raised and the Ministry of Education and Research will monitor which specific requirements will be consolidated. There is no specific information yet. I know the municipalities that have private schools are working on it right now. We'll find out the final picture sometime. In itself, this is not a very comfortable subject for the Ministry of Education and Research, but these funds will certainly be found.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U99	Tarmo Tamm, first question to the waitress. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U100	Thank you, Mr President, for an informative remark first. But, good waitress, this 4 million definitely doesn't cover the needs. I simply calculate from my head: Tartu requirement is about 1 million, Tallinn requirement is 1.9 million, Pärnu has 0.8 million. That's $4 million on its own. So you're gonna have to give it a lot of money. Does anyone have an overview of the total amount that a country may have to pay in an additional year?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U101	The Ministry of Education and Research has made initial forecasts and this is what they have based on. I am not going to do a head count in this remote control, because I do not have an accurate overview of all the local governments involved. I know there are others besides those mentioned by the questioner.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U102	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U103	Thank you, Mr President. Good Commission waitress! First, I'll help you. We in the Committee on Culture have discussed that money may be needed in the amount of 13 to 14 million if everyone collects their claims. But would you say, knowing the budget of the Ministry of Education and Research and how tense it is, what special allocation will be postponed to next years or will have to be abandoned?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U104	These earmarkings concern the same issues that I have referred to twice here. It is reasonable to ask either the Ministry of Education or the Minister of Education and Research directly about how the balance resulting from the transfer will be used more precisely. We were not given such a detailed overview in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, as no member of the Commission asked for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U105	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you. I will open negotiations for representatives of the political groups. There is no wish to negotiate. Two amendments have been tabled to the third reading of Bill 746. The first is the proposal from the Committee on Monetary Affairs and is fully taken into account. The second is the full and taken into account by the Reform Party Group. The commission has proposed a final vote on draft 746. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the 2014 State Budget Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 746. Please take a stand and vote. There are 61 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft 746; 1 is impartial; no one is opposed. The 2014 State Budget Act Amendment Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U106	Our next item is the third reading of draft law amending the Law on Audit Activities and the Law on Securities Markets initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The commission has proposed to put the draft to a final vote on 613. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Law on Audit Activities and the Law on Securities Markets, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 613. Please take a stand and vote. There are 67 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the Bill 613 and there are no respondents or abstentions. The Act amending the Law on Audit Activities and the Law on Securities Markets has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U107	Our next item is the second reading of Bill 715 of the Riigikogu's resolution 'Accepting the State's 2013 Annual Summary Report' presented by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Rannar Vassilyev, Chairman of the Monetary Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U108	Ladies and gentlemen, On 18 November and 1 December, the Committee on Finance discussed the draft decision approving the country's consolidated financial report for the financial year 2013. No amendments were received, no linguistic and technical changes were made and no further questions or issues were raised. According to the audit report submitted by the National Audit Office, the summary report of the state for the financial year 2013 is correct in a substantial part and the most important economic transactions of the state were carried out in accordance with the State Budget Act. According to the Board, the structural surplus of the general government in 2013 was in line with expectations. According to the data reviewed in 2013, the Estonian economy grew by 1.6%, and according to the data reviewed in GDP, the general government deficit was 0.5%, and based on the old GDP time series it was 0.2%. The Commission took the following consensual decisions: to put the draft on the agenda on Wednesday, 3 December, to close the second reading and to put it to a final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U109	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. No amendments have been received. The commission has proposed to put the draft decision to the final vote on 715. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic to approve the State's summary report for the financial year 2013 715. Please take a stand and vote. There are 48 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft 715, against 2 and no abstentions. The Riigikogu's decision to approve the State's consolidated annual report for the financial year 2013 has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U110	Our next item is the debate on the "Integrating Estonia 2020" development plan for integration. I think it is appropriate to introduce the relevant procedure to the MPs. First, the presentation by the Minister of Culture Urve Tiidus is up to 20 minutes, then the presentation by Lauri Luige, Chairman of the Committee on Culture, is up to 20 minutes. A member of the Riigikogu can ask an oral question to both rapporteurs. After that there are negotiations where representatives of committees and political groups and other members of the Riigikogu can speak. Following the end of the discussion, the Riigikogu will not take a decision. Let's go! Minister of Culture Urve Tiidus, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U111	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Allow me to present the Sectoral Development Plan 'Integrating Estonia 2020'. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, the task of the state is to ensure the preservation of the Estonian nation and culture, but at the same time it establishes the right of everyone to maintain their national cohesion. A key prerequisite for the strength, security and sustainability of the Estonian state is the social cohesion of society and the sense of unity of the citizenry. This, however, depends on each individual and on our national and cultural groups, who must be prepared to participate actively in society and share democratic values. The "Integrating Estonia 2020" development plan is based on the multicultural nature of Estonian society and the value of maintaining it. Integration policies shall respect the principles of equal treatment and the fundamental values of the European Union. The "Integrating Estonia 2020" development plan is a follow-up document to two previous strategic documents, to the national programme "Integration in Estonian society 2000 just 2007" and to the sectoral development plan "Estonia's integration plan 2008-2013." The 'Integrating Estonia 2020' is the basis for the implementation of national integration policies and the planning of funding in 2014‐2020. The development plan was established in cooperation between different ministries and implementing bodies. This will be based on broad public involvement and the opinion of industry experts. In the state's budget strategy, integration as a horizontal theme passes through several performance areas and helps to achieve their objectives, including maintaining the Estonian language and culture, increasing the competitiveness of the economy and ensuring the security of the Estonian state. In other words, integration is an issue that affects all of us, very directly. The development plan also takes account of the Government of the Republic 2014. activities and objectives relating to citizenship, language and national policies and integration into education, research and employment, as set out in the 2006 action programme. The activities of the development plan also support the recommendations of the Russian-language Information Space Commission on strengthening the Russian-language public-sector media in Estonia. A little bit about drawing up this plan. The development plan was drawn up by a steering committee and a steering group approved by the Minister for Culture. The development of the document started two years ago and hundreds of people participated: officials, experts, researchers and representatives of NGOs and local governments, various target groups, citizens of Estonia and other countries. I dare say that such a great deal of preliminary work is not often done to reach an agreement of as many interests as possible. The creators estimate that more than 1000 people participated in the process of drawing up the plan. The fact that this topic is being discussed in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu also shows how important integration is for Estonia. The methodological basis for drawing up the development plan was regular monitoring and studies, taking into account the results of the evaluation and monitoring of previous development plans and the use of EU funds. The central document, however, was the monitoring of Estonian integration carried out in 2011 by the University of Tartu, the Centre for Political Studies in Emor and the Centre for Political Studies in Praxis of AS. In addition, a number of thematic studies and expert advice were commissioned in 2013 to support the preparation of the development plan and to plan the EU's 2014-20 financial period. Hundreds of Estonian people with different citizenship had the opportunity to participate in discussions in discussion clubs, the summaries of which also became an important input to the development plan. Through the website www.integration.ee, everyone was able to express their views and make suggestions during the development plan process. The plan was drawn up on the basis of a recommendation from various studies to adopt a narrower, target-based approach. This meant the need to take more account of the national language skills, civic identity and active participation of Estonian people whose mother tongue is not Estonian. Integration policies must be flexible and take into account people's practical needs. While the issues of participation and equal treatment have been at the forefront of studies for well-intertwined people, the key issue for the intertwined is better employment opportunities and a sense of social security. In order to make the values of society more open to all Estonians, both Estonians and people of other nationalities, it is necessary to provide information on this issue and also the opportunity to make their views heard. Civil society organisations and the leaders of cultural events bringing together representatives of different nationalities will play an important role. The changing understanding of integration also shows that the new integration agenda devotes a great deal of attention to new immigrants. We wish or not, but with our open society and economy in the country, we must also take into account future developments arising from the membership of the European Union and the internationalisation of the economy. Let me also briefly talk about the overall objective and the sub-objectives of the development plan. The general objective of the development plan is as follows: Estonian society is integrated and socially coherent. People with different language and cultural backgrounds are actively involved in society and share democratic values. On this basis, three sectoral sub-objectives have been formulated. Firstly, the attitudes and values supporting integration are fixed in Estonian society. Secondly, the participation in society of permanent residents with a less integrated background of foreign origin has increased thanks to the acquisition of Estonian citizenship and new knowledge of society. Thirdly, new immigrants have adapted to Estonian society. In addition, three sectoral integration objectives for education, youth work and employment have been formulated under other development plans. The plan for the implementation of the development plan has been drawn up for the period from 2014 to 2017. It reflects the activities of the development plan and the corresponding metrics. The financial resources of the development plan do not include integration support activities financed under other development plans. For example, in the field of the Ministry of Education and Research, integration is facilitated by the lifelong learning strategy, the development plan for the Estonian language and the development plan for the youth field, the Ministry of Social Affairs contributes within the framework of the employment programme of the Government of the Republic, and the Ministry of the Interior implements integration activities within the framework of the civil society development plan. A strong and sustainable country needs a common identity. The most important signs of the strength of the Estonian state are the sense of unity of the citizen's society and the cultural traditions, attitudes and values that consolidate identity, which are largely transmitted by education, culture and media. The Estonian state must solve the task of helping people of different origins, on the one hand, to keep their unique identity while encouraging them to be open to shared values. These topics and issues are at the heart of Estonia's new integration policy. As a third dimension, the issue of national security is added, because the more isolated the population groups are, the easier it will be to affect the stability of society. Foreign policy events in 2014 confirm that Estonia needs a national integration policy, as well as close sectoral cooperation between state institutions, local authorities, the private sector and the NGOs. The biggest change in substance that we want to achieve with the new development plan is that integration is considered to be a broad-based process in society, not the integration of one group or another. It depends on how successful we can be together. That is why we are talking about integration in society, not integration in society. Integration is a process involving all members of society. Direct contacts and experiences support integration best. The aim is to support cultural institutions, museums, theatres and concert institutions so that they can offer their programme in other languages as well as provide additional opportunities for language learning, while practicing Estonian in a natural language environment. Integration policies must ensure that all people have more equal access to work, education and culture, and encourage their interaction, regardless of their linguistic or cultural background. When people have jobs and manage economically, radical views also have less ground. Thus, we also contribute directly to security through integration activities. More attention needs to be paid to the problems related to the fact that it is not easy for people with other language and cultural backgrounds to succeed in Estonian society. If we want a progressive society, we cannot afford such a situation. This does not mean, however, that we are going to address the problems on a national basis. Language skills, levels of education and motivation are essential factors for successful social success. Despite the decrease in the number of people with undefined citizenship, there are still quite a large number of people in Estonia. It must also be said that nearly a quarter of the Russian-speaking population does not speak Estonian. This proportion has decreased over the years. Among those who do not speak the Estonian language, there are many representatives of the older generation, citizens of the Russian Federation and people of undefined citizenship. Therefore, preparatory courses for the necessary language levels and citizenship exams will continue to be supported. Language skills are important. In addition to the gradual transition to Estonian-language subjects in Russian schools and the preparation of competent teachers to support integration, additional language learning activities will continue. The better people with other mother tongues can speak Estonian here in Estonia, the more successful they can participate in society, the easier it will be for them to find a job, to become part of the media space in Estonian and to communicate with people of other nationalities. Thus, their social activity is also increasing. In this area, there will be a first contribution to what has already been justified activities, such as immersion, integrated learning in schools, language clubs for adults and reimbursement of language learning costs. The aim of developing the language skills of students is to teach Estonian to young people from Russian language backgrounds so well that they can continue their studies at a university in Estonian or in vocational studies. Today also places a greater burden on teachers who must be able to teach students of several nationalities, orienting themselves in their very diverse cultural background. To this end, it is important to develop the whole education system, including increasing the cultural competence of educators. In an open country with an open society and an economy, we must be prepared to help people who have come to live here as painlessly as possible to integrate into our society. Only then will Estonia be attractive to the smart workforce. To this end, the state will develop a package of services to support the adaptation of new immigrants. Labour market services will also serve the objectives of the integration plan in the coming years. For people, this means appropriate practical training, more information, language training and opportunities to improve qualifications. Activities in the area of integration have a strong role to play in reducing the differences in living standards among Estonian residents. Certainly, the current situation cannot yet be fully satisfied. The linguistic or cultural background of people living in Estonia should not affect their well-being. This is certainly the most important challenges in the coming years in view of the development of Estonian society. The new development plan makes a much wider sense of integration. We do not classify people on the basis of their native language or nationality; the main emphasis is on finding and amplifying the common part. All the objectives and activities set out in the development plan must be read with this in mind. At the heart of Estonia's integration policy are values and attitudes that support the common identity of people with different language and cultural backgrounds. The role of Estonians as a creator of the integration context also needs attention, depending on how involved people of other nationalities feel here. The aim of the development plan is to move from immersion to culture and to increase interest in Estonian history and culture. It also supports activities in the sphere of communication that help to increase cohesion, openness, tolerance and values related to mutual understanding in society. The integration agenda also aims to develop the capacity of integration stakeholders to pursue policy objectives. In this context, it is particularly important to develop communication between NGOs, which will result in the creation of permanent networks of cooperation, and the boundaries between public, private and third sector activities will become much more flexible. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Understanding and attitudes towards integration have changed a lot in the last 20 years. In the 1990s, when integration was seen as the unification of non-Estonians into Estonian society, we now see integration as an emphatically multilateral one, where it depends on each person and group of national and cultural groups how successful they can be together. In terms of the success of integration, it is important that perceptions and attitudes support the principle of better integration with the overall positive societal background. We all have a chance to contribute to this. I sincerely thank all those who have contributed to this development plan. There were heated discussions, as well as more serious debates. The final result, however, was a good development plan that I presented to you today on behalf of the government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U112	Questions for the Minister. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. When a new plan is drawn up, it makes sense to look at the earlier plans and their effectiveness on this subject. That is what you have done in this document. One part of this is about improving the knowledge of the Estonian language, that great progress has been made. It is written that, according to the integration plan in 2008-2013, language learning programmes, further training courses, language clubs, free Estonian language courses have been launched. In summary, it is noted that there has been an increase in both the consumption of Estonian-language media and confidence in Estonian-language media. I am somewhat repeating what was asked in Question Time - Heimar Lenk quite emotionally asked one question, and I am asking the same question in principle. If everything is in relatively good condition, progress has been made in studying Estonian, more Russians already speak and understand Estonian and the consumption of Estonian-language media has increased, why is everything basically turned on their heads now? The national broadcasting channel is made in Russian, which means that you no longer need to speak Estonian in order to be included in the Estonian Information Space.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U114	Thank you for your question, Mr Toobal. On the contrary, trends have been positive. Indeed, the acquisition of the Estonian language has always improved, but this does not mean that everyone understands the Estonian language. The situation is very different and depends a little on age, also on the time when people settled in Estonia and received a residence permit here, and on several other factors. However, we do have an auditorium for whom Russian is a more functional language in the media. Media research also shows this. The integration plans and development plans are, unfortunately, such that they never create an ideal situation, that all problems are solved, that all things are done, that we draw a line and forget about it. Life and people work in the process and situations change. There will be new migrants who need these same activities, but better quality. These are objective needs, and there is still a need to speak in Russian about life in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U115	Andrus Island, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U116	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. Reading the plan, it turns out that the biggest field of work in the area of integration awaits us in Ida-Virumaa. The second main place is Harjumaa, including Tallinn. I will read from the operational programme a number of measures intended for Ida-Virumaa, which I think is well-founded. When drawing up the plan, was it under discussion that Tallinn and the whole of Harjumaa could also focus, or are you sure that Harjumaa will receive enough attention through the implementing measures that are currently planned?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U117	Thank you very much for your question, Mr Saare. Yes, Ida-Viru County has been highlighted here. The plan's authors, including all the experts I've appointed, have put Ida-Virumaa at the forefront. But actually, you were very good at directing my answer. All operational programmes still support, through general actions, the problem of employment, qualifications, language learning and participation in culture for all other mother tongues. There are certainly no very radical differences, so that no one is distracted.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U118	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U119	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! For so long, we sat across from each other in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I'm awfully sorry right now that I didn't use this time to talk to you about integration and integration. But then who knew that you would be the Minister of Culture responsible for this area? Now that I have a desire to ask dozens of questions, I must limit myself to just one. There's something that's bothering me all the time. It went through your call, too. You spoke of integration as a condition of national security and referred to the events of this year, probably Ukraine. Do you really think that it is possible in Estonia that events like those in Ukraine are repeated? Is it not offensive to both Estonians and the Russians living here that our situation is compared to the civil war in Ukraine?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U120	Thank you very much for your question, Mr Stalnukhin. I never mentioned Ukraine in my presentation. However, I must say that when we visited Ida-Viru County with the Committee on Monetary Affairs, we had a very pleasant opportunity to have extremely interesting conversations there. I believe there will be more of these opportunities. I look forward to your thoughts.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U121	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U122	Thank you. One hour ago, when Heimar Lenk once asked about the roll-out of the Russian-language program in ETV, you said you didn't know or remember it. I can remember a little bit. As I recall, even some money was allocated for this, but unfortunately it was that, at that time, the Chairman of the Board of National Broadcasting, together with the Board of Directors, decided to give ETV2 as a channel for Russian-speaking programmes, children's and youth programmes. That's why you could say it was deliberately failed. You don't have any information, do you? Why did it happen that time?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U123	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U124	Thank you very much for your question, Mrs Marika Tuus-Laul. Indeed, in the meantime, I should have been working on getting this information, but the time went so fast that I just couldn't make it. I know that there have been a lot of interesting Russian-language programmes in Estonian National Broadcasting, which were funded on a project basis through various programmes. As such, they were not all sustainable, although the audience was present and popularity as well. As to why the Estonian Public Broadcasting gave up this alleged plan to create a Russian-language channel, it is necessary to ask the members of the Broadcasting Council at the time. I'm afraid I can't add anything here right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U125	Thank you. Madam Minister! They're talking about the Russian channel right now, but every job is done by people. That's my question. You are a man of this sphere. Do you see, as a minister, this team that would take on this burden and put this plan into practice, so in two or three years' time, we'd come together and say, "You see, come out?"
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U126	Thank you very much, Mr. Valeri Korb. It's very nice of you to ask me, of course, in view of the fact that I've ever worked in the media. I'm just saying that since then, I've been in local government for eight years, and this has reduced my competence in today's media. But I'll repeat what I said before Question Time. Can such capable teams be found in Estonia? I'm a very optimistic person. I've seen people evolve according to the level of responsibility. I guess it takes new challenges to develop. Whoever doesn't like that word, find someone else. But it's the responsibility of national broadcasting to find these people. The minister here can't help but philosophize a little. After all, we have had fantastic programme directors, so it can be said that there may be few, but still there are in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U127	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U128	Thank you, manager. Madam Minister! Will Estonia not be in trouble here alone? Can he resist the propaganda of a large country with such a small population and a small capacity? Wouldn't it be wise for the three Baltic States to co-operate with the three of them, but the auditorium is basically one? Isn't this the key to this enterprise?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U129	Thank you for your question, Mr Tarmo Tamm. This year, it is known that the Russian-language Baltic channel, or even the European channel, has been on the agenda. I just read that Poland is ready to co-operate. Such collective action makes sense. At meetings with some or other people from the Baltic States, this issue has emerged, and it will certainly be the common part of buying procurement programmes and films. But once again, this is a field of media professionals, they can be more specific. After all, we very much appreciate the cooperation between the Baltic States and expect it to be closer. This is actually a chance in this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U130	Thank you. A single oral question can be asked to both rapporteurs. So I assume Marika Tuus-Laul is going to ask another question to our other waitress. But there are no further questions for the Minister of Culture. He can therefore leave the remote control, and now Lauri Luik, our second waitress and chairman of the Committee on Culture, is coming. Please, Lauri Swan!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U131	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The "Integrating Estonia 2020" development plan is the sectoral policies of Estonia's integration policy for the next six years, based on the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and the fundamental values of the European Union. In a very simplified way, our aim is to ensure that the people of Estonia, regardless of their language or cultural background, feel as a fully-fledged part of the whole. The values and activities set out in the development plan are designed to develop a tolerant and open society through broader civic education. When discussing integration, people often ask what is meant by it. In the current context, we are thinking above all of increasing cultural, political and socio-economic cohesion, i.e. more simply of the ability of society to guarantee the well-being of all its members and to reduce disparities. Ideally, this would mean a society of free people who support one another and achieve their common goals democratically. This is also the main objective of this development plan. In the area of integration, three main challenges are identified: firstly, increasing the openness of society as a whole, secondly, continuing to support the integration of non-Estonian permanent residents and thirdly, supporting the adaptation and integration of new immigrants into this society. Consequently, we have also set three sub-objectives. The first sub-objective: attitudes and values supporting integration are firmly established in our society. It provides for a wide range of measures, such as developing a common information space, supporting the recognition of cultural diversity, 'cultural immersion', developing everyday communication, supporting ethnic minorities, etc. The second sub-objective: the participation of non-integrated permanent residents with a background of foreign origin in society has increased. For example, I would like to mention measures such as the acquisition of Estonian citizenship and new social knowledge, increasing social activity and promoting equal treatment. Sub-objective 3: New immigrants have adapted to Estonian society. Adaptation training and related support services may be mentioned as measures. In addition, we have formulated three thematic objectives to be pursued through other development plans, aimed at non-Estonian native people and concerning, first, competitive education, including good language skills, second, active and open youth work and, third, the development of employment, including knowledge and skills. A detailed implementation plan for the next three years will help to implement these objectives. The forecast financial volume of the development plan is approximately EUR 40 million. The Committee on Culture discussed the development plan. a on 16 June and 18 November. During the discussions, a number of questions have been raised, which I will give you a brief overview of. It was examined whether the development plan also envisaged financing the creation of a possible Russian-language television channel. According to the Ministry, the relevant additional amounts will be attached to the operational programme, if necessary. A few weeks ago, the government reportedly supported the idea of creating a television channel in Russian. They also asked about student exchange and funding for language camps. The school exchange programme is covered by a lifelong learning strategy. This is a separate activity financed by the Ministry of Education and Research. A total of 5.2 million euros is available to improve the language skills of adults, while young people are provided with a variety of language training in camps funded through the development plan for youth work. The Commission also asked how many new immigrants we have and how the related activities will be financed. The activities of the Ministry of the Interior are focused on so-called talent policy. The adaptation programmes provide for language learning at level A1, funded by the Ministry of the Interior from its own budget. The Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Culture offer programmes to acquire a higher level in the language from A2 to B1 in order to gain citizenship and better adapt. There is close cooperation between ministries in this area. The budget for new immigrants represents around 15% of the integration plan's budget. According to the Ministry of the Interior, the number of new immigrants may reach about 16,000 by 2020. It is important to stress that this is a forecast, that reality depends on talent policy, economic development, people's opportunities, etc. About 3,000 people come to Estonia each year, but some will also go away. For example, seasonal workers. There is a draft that sets an immigration quota. The Ministry of Social Affairs is involved in integration and language learning of refugees, and the necessary funding comes from the European Union's Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund. Since there were differences of opinion between ministries during the development of the development plan, the Commission was also asked about this. The biggest complaint has been that the development plan does not cover all areas. As the development plan is horizontal and covered by many other development plans, there was a debate on how other objectives could be better reflected in the development plan. In addition, there was a suggestion that little attention had been paid to equal treatment. Individuals of undefined nationality were also the subject of disputes. In addition, more information was requested about the implementation of the Tallinn and Narva Advisory Centre. The pilot project was launched this year and was covered by the European Commission's resources and was consulted by the Integration and Migration Foundation. Currently, the counselling point works at Narva City Government and the Ministry of Culture pays for the counselling. The desire is to review the concept and complement it. They also asked about the development of cultural societies and the new immigrant communities. The number of cultural societies has increased from 300 to 400 a few years ago. Hindus of new immigrants have an active community in Tartu. The number of migrants and Muslims from Africa has not increased. Applications have been made to support the activities of Angolan cultural society, with funding being provided through the umbrella organisation. The last issue was the involvement of local authorities. Cooperation with local governments takes place in many ways, and local government officials have been trained in this area in the past. The establishment of a support network with municipalities is a planned activity in the plan. Cooperation with larger municipalities, where there are even the largest direct target groups, is good. Representatives of local governments, as well as the Association of Estonian Cities and Estonian Association of Rural Governments, are involved in the Steering Group of the Integration Plan. Finally, the Committee on Culture decided to propose to the Assembly that the 'Integrating Estonia 2020' development plan be put on the agenda for the plenary session by today, 3 December, and that Lauri Luik, President of the Committee on Culture, be appointed rapporteur. The decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U132	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U133	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President of the Commission. I have a purely technical, terminology question. You and the Minister used a word like'snake immigrants' several times. This assumes that there are 'old immigrants' somewhere in the document. If so, please explain who they are, those old immigrants. But if that word doesn't exist, why do you use it as a'snake immigrant'? Do you not understand that this calls into question the status of taxpayers currently living and working in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U134	Thank you. This is indeed a good technical issue. I think it is more appropriate to ask the specialists who have prepared the development plan, but in general, people who have lived here for less than five years are treated as new immigrants. Perhaps this term is indeed not the most successful and, if a better word is found, why not use it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U135	Thank you. Please, Peter Laurson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U136	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! What are the most important changes to this development plan compared to the previous development plan? Please indicate why this development plan is different from the previous one.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U137	Well, integration is a long process. It is logical that this work has been done for years and will continue, especially if we mean that people who are constantly coming to Estonia are also targeted. This process must be continuous. In my opinion, the most important change that has taken place throughout this concept over the years is that if, some time ago, there was talk about the integration or integration into society of a particular target group, we are now talking about integration in society. To a large extent, this is a change of attitude. On the other hand, three main challenges have been highlighted in this specific development plan: firstly, increasing the openness of society, secondly, continuing to support the integration of non-Estonian permanent residents, and thirdly, supporting the adaptation and integration of new immigrants. The new development plan highlights precisely the three challenges and the three sub-objectives on which they are based, with the aim of finding solutions to these challenges. I can do it again. Firstly, attitudes and values supporting integration are firmly established in society. Within this framework, a number of actions and related activities are planned, such as the development of a common information space, cultural diversification, awareness raising, daily communication development, support for ethnic minorities, etc. The second sub-objective: the participation of non-integrated permanent residents with a background of foreign origin in society has increased. Actions include e.g. facilitating the process of acquiring citizenship, increasing social knowledge and active citizenship, promoting equal treatment, etc. The sub-objective of the third challenge is that new immigrants have adapted to society. Measures include adaptation training and other support services. So there are a number of very specific actions planned that should improve the situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U138	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U139	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! I have a slightly broader question. Some time ago, the leaders of the so-called old European countries made such a résumé that they had failed in their integration practice. A few weeks or more ago, the British Prime Minister also expressed his vision of migration. How do you assess whether all the pros and cons that have emerged from the experience of these countries have been taken into account in the preparation of the Estonian integration plan? They have more experience than we do.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U140	That's a good question. I would like to thank here the authors of this development plan, who, in my opinion, have done a very thorough job. Every day I come across various draft laws and development plans, but you don't see that much work. This plan has been prepared for just over two years and more than 1000 people, including professionals, scientists, minority representatives, etc., were involved in the work. When you read this integrated Estonian development plan, you will see that it contains a long list of documents that have been used as a basis for drawing up the plan. One of the main documents is monitoring the integration of Estonian society since 2011, but there are still a number of other documents. If you take the program apart, you can follow it one by one and look at the sources you've used. I believe that the development plan was preceded by a broad debate. Greetings to those who did it again!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U141	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U142	Thank you. Good colleague! I'm looking at the part about direct costs. Here's the first question. In 2014, €40 million has been planned to be allocated, €25 million will start in the first three years and €14,6 million in the second three years. But if we look at the period from 2014 to 2017, it turns out that the Ministry of Culture receives nearly EUR 19 million, the Ministry of Education and Research receives EUR 659550. That means the difference is about 30 times. I think we're going back to where we've been these years. We teach people who, at the age of 60 to 65, must learn Estonian, but you yourself also spoke about immersion and day-care centres where children are taught in Estonian. I'm sorry, maybe I misunderstand this problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U143	In my opinion, the development plan for integration is made special by the fact that the document is horizontal and covers a number of areas which fall within the remit of different ministries. Indeed, the budgets for the administration of these ministries are somewhat different, where the volume of work involved in some activities is higher, where slightly smaller. Therefore, these figures are also different. By the way, in addition to this 40 million additional funds have been allocated for integration under the development plans of other ministries. So this EUR 40 million is an indicative amount, in fact there is much more of it. But one for one of these ministries is not worth comparing, the development plan covers several areas and we have to consider the overall amount that is directed there. If you wish, we can also take specific areas on a case-by-case basis on the basis of an operational programme later. Indeed, the operational programme has been drawn up as a detailed document up to 2017, with new activities up to 2020 and, of course, beyond.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U144	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U145	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! Aren't you still trying to break in a little open door? Look, we have people from somewhere else by the bloodline, but they've been living here for decades, having children born here, raising grandchildren. They live here because they like this country, this regime, they like these laws. They live here. How much anyone here speaks one language or another is a matter of their own. But I'll bring the parallel. If you're in Paris and you're a black citizen, and you tell him he's a senegal, you can get a chin out of his hand and he'll still have a right. He's never been to Africa and he says he's French. And he is French. For example, if I go somewhere in Europe and try to mention that I'm Russian, they say you have 'Estonian' in your passport. Is there any way to sum up this issue and focus more on new immigrants?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U146	There is no doubt that it is also important to deal with new immigrants, and to them a relatively large part of the activities of the development plan have been targeted. But I look at integration as a whole. I've been trying to simplify it for myself. That is why I said at the beginning that, in my opinion, this means a more united Estonia in two words. If simplified or illustrated, it could be a beautiful, complete puzzle picture, made up of a large number of small parts that form a whole, and that is precisely in a certain combination. The creation of this one harmonious whole is our goal. I think it is very positive that the development plan is so broad-based. We have recognised that one challenge, one aspect is indeed to deal with the new immigrants, the other is the people who have lived here longer, and the third aspect is the development of general values. The current picture still needs to be viewed more broadly, and I think it has become quite good.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U147	Thank you. Please, Urbo Vaarmann!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U148	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, If a Russian citizen goes to Finland or goes there from Estonia to a person who speaks Russian in Finland, he or she will be able to fully integrate into this society within a few years. We have now had freedom for 23 years, and we have not been able to achieve it. Can you not see, however, that something has been done in the very wrong direction if there are places in Estonia where people have not been taught to speak in Estonian? How is that possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U149	I have been thinking from the outset that integration as such certainly cannot be done forcibly. Just as you can't make a person love forced, so you can't tell him that now you have to fit in with our puzzle picture, even though your piece is completely different. I think it has to be that people go through a personal process of their own free will. Above all, a person must also have the will to learn; he must have the motivation to do something in order to have a say in this society and to be a part of it. I guess it's the same in any field. Take learning, for example, if the child still does not want to study, then no matter how good the teacher is, the child simply does not learn. So the person himself must have the will, our job is to have a relevant development plan with the operational programmes. All these measures must create the necessary conditions for integration. We are trying to do as much as possible to ensure, among other things, that information provided by the media is objective so that people have a basis for making decisions. Our task is to create a favourable environment, but first and foremost, people must find their own inner will to become part of Estonian society.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U150	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much, Lauri Luik. We're going to negotiate. Please, Maimu Berg first!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U151	Madam President, thank you very much. Good listeners! I recognise, of course, the great work that has been done in the preparation of the development plan. As the Minister said, integration is a human and emotional issue that concerns entire ethnic groups and, at the same time, individual people. It is easy to hurt, defy, or insult someone when we deal with this subject with a rough approach. By whatever means we classify those members of our society whose native language is not our national language, each of them may be individually and individually concerned. I remember how, on the 20th anniversary of the German reunification, Chancellor Angela Merkel went to the speaker's desk and announced to the assembled Council of Youth of the Christian Democratic Union of Germany: 'Multiciti ist absolut gescheitert. ' The multiplicity has failed completely. In the light of the new integration agenda today, do we have reason to call out from this remote control that our integration policy so far has failed, or to rejoice that we have managed and are taking a firm step forward on this path? Well, we've achieved some things, but we've made bigger and smaller mistakes. We have perhaps seen integration primarily as a one-sided process where the Russian-speaking population has become an object in which the subject has not been mastered or wanted to be seen with its own opinions, visions and expectations. We have often failed to ask what they expect from integration. But we haven't asked the Estonians either. We have not helped the Estonians to adapt to the values of today's globalising society, but we have rather accused Estonians of intolerance. However, Estonians also need support in the process of integration so as not to remain alone with the continuous individual identification process that is inherent and important to us, in order to be able to create and maintain a sense of social cohesion, so as not to feel a hunch of national integration in their native country unjustly treated. With a worrying speech, Pope Francis recently appeared before the European Parliament in Strasbourg, who spoke about individuals rather than nations. One important issue that the Pope touched on was the human dignity of immigrants. He stressed that the dignity of the individual should be at the heart of the European idea, but instead, we are facing a selfish lifestyle characterised by indifference to the world around us. Such egotistical indifference, a lack of empathy, starts with underestimation of human dignity and human rights, but when these values are out of place, we also have little chance of success in integration. Due to the changed situation in our neighbourhood, we are now more than ever concerned that our Russian-speaking population is located largely in an information room different from the Estonian language. Hopes are in the creation of a Russian-language TV channel. Unfortunately, we should have had such a channel for 10 to 15 years. Now that much of the information exchange has moved to social media, the Russian-language TV channel may seem important, but it would certainly be even better if the Russian-language auditorium had a well-established habit of getting information from this channel, if it had been known for years as a journalist by strong professionals who felt the weight. Where do I get them now? Integration is a continuous process, but it must certainly not be taken as a uniform mass. Many of us have probably met Russian-speaking people in Estonia in some foreign countries, where they too identify themselves as Estonians and, if necessary, defend the views and beliefs of the Estonian state with us. In meetings with readers, I have often had to answer the question of how Estonians and Russians get along in Estonia by presenting translations of my novel I loved Russians abroad. When I introduced my book in Moscow, I did not hear this question, but I was interested in how Estonian literature was doing. Several of the Russian-speaking Estonians who showed up, I call them boldly, so just told the Moscow about Estonian literature, even though they had read it primarily in Russian. The countries of origin and native language of people migrating to us are becoming increasingly diverse over time. The Constitution of the Republic of Estonia states that no one must be discriminated against in Estonia on the grounds of nationality, language, origin or religion. Promoting tolerance and equal treatment is a fundamental principle of the development plan 'Estonia 2020'. As long as it doesn't stay to do the words, it'll find a full application in our daily lives. One more minute, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U152	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U153	One minute is enough. The better economically and socially secure our Estonian residents, especially compared to the large neighbouring country, the safer and safer we all feel in our country, the more united we are, the more united the people living here. The Social Democrats are convinced that the growth, equal treatment and recognition of the individual's dignity of social security and economic well-being of the people are the most secure guarantee for a successful integration policy. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U154	Thank you. I'm asking for a speech chair for Mikhail Stalnukhin! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U155	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister for Culture! In my opinion, as well as many of my colleagues, you are the most sympathetic person in this government, so I am personally addressing you. Much has been said today in this Chamber about the media, which will be created separately for the Russians, so that this integration can take place more easily. I would say that before we create a new one, we need to see how the media room works so far. A few months ago, I had just come from Narva and asked my colleagues how they liked Narva's new shoreside. The euro project was behind it with its big money and everything became immensely beautiful. I'm proud I was at the launch of this project myself. But none of the colleagues had seen anything, because it has taken place in Narva and the Estonian media simply do not tell the rest of Estonia about it. Maybe a little bit more figurative. Seven years ago, a horse race took place in Narva on a beautiful September day. 120 fantasticly beautiful horses from all over Europe competed all day in the castle. We saw that the chairman of the horse farmers' association was running around, it was like he wasn't taking part in the party at all, and it was like he was waiting for something. We said relax, it's all worked out, it's all right. Look, 5,000 narvas have been there, and a few more thousand can go by the end of the day. Look how nice it is! He said he can't relax, he's waiting for an ETV representative. He couldn't figure out why the fools started laughing around and asked me what was going on. We explained to him that if something had been burned down in Narva or someone had been killed, if something very bad had happened, then the representative of ETV would have been present immediately and made a report of it. But that ETV will come to the horse races and show Estonia how beautiful Narva is, how beautiful the fortress is, how wonderful it is today, will never happen. They never talk about it. Look, maybe it's worth fixing. The media should draw people towards society, but he pushes them further away. Who can give me an example of when he has read or seen on TV or heard some good news from Russia? It just doesn't exist, it doesn't exist in nature. I did a lot of work a few years ago, and I've been going through Delfi very carefully since 2000. The news about Russia is 25% in the World, sometimes around 40%. Perhaps you could call it positive the news that Putin is preparing for a flight to the moon, planning to become a cosmonaut, or something like that. Everything else is pure negativity. How do you think non-Estonians living in Estonia react to such a thing? Like it or not, this is our real country for them and me. It's our real land, and if you keep calling it names, we're gonna be passed on to this maniac. But this is not an objective picture of the world, absolutely not. I'd like to talk about attitude. We have been talking about Ukraine for a year and there is only one point of view at all times. This isn't exactly what's really going on in the world. And if I start telling a person who works here in a smoke room in this house one thing, two and three, he won't believe me. We're going to the candy, I'm going to show him documentary footage, but there aren't any in the Estonian media. In the Estonian media everything is black and white and everything has been decided in advance. Madam Minister, under your authority, as I understand it, the ERR is. You must be curating it somehow. Oh, Riigikogu? Then I will present the complaint to myself as to what to do. How should the media view it? Look, we had an election campaign this year. The parties were told that you had three radio debates and one television debate, divide it among yourselves. In Russian. Me and Yana Toomi were told by the party to decide for yourselves. We flipped a coin and it turned out that Yana Toom went to the first radio debate and a TV debate, and I had two radio debates. And then suddenly, at the last minute, they said they couldn't be the same person, both there and there. All right, I gave up the final debate because the last one was number one. When I went to the radio house, the host, or whoever was there, ran with security. There was a security guard standing right next to me. I think they were afraid I'd climb into that house by force. The other one was at the same door. Why am I saying this? That's why I, personally, boycott ETV and the entire ERR system. This system is unobjective, and so is the information that comes from it. You can create whatever you want, talking about the need for integration, integration, etc., you will make this new channel. But it will be the same people who are doing it now, and it will be run by the same people who are running it now. It's not that I'm jealous, but the money that's gonna be set aside is money that's been thrown down cleanly. I still have a minute. We have been talking about integration, language and insanity for 15 years. The national language needs to be understood, for example, by a doctor. But if you ask a person and you say he has a choice: there are two surgeons, you have a dangerous operation ahead of you. One has just graduated from the university and has no special experience, but he is very good at speaking Estonian. The other is one who has very big problems with Estonian, barely knows how, but he has 20 or 30 years of experience. Who do you choose? When we take political decisions, we must be as wise as we are in normal life. There is no need to come up with any unachievable goals and to spend huge amounts of money on it. Life needs to be changed, not to create new so-called opportunities such as this Russian media channel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U156	Please, Andrus Island!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U157	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This is certainly a much-needed document, the aim of which is unambiguously understood: a socially cohesive Estonian society. You can't lower the goal bar. This is a complex task for all of us, the result of which can be considered positive when all people living in Estonia with different language and cultural backgrounds participate equally actively in society and share democratic values. The integration plan for the years 2008 to 2013 and the earlier "Integration in Estonian Society 2000 to 2007" were equally ambitious. Can we now confirm that the objectives of the previous programmes have been achieved? Even unread studies and unknown statistical feedback, we all feel that the result so far cannot be satisfied. And not because the previous plans were poorly designed or there would not have been enough money to implement the programmes. No, absolutely not. Just as the previous ones have a new plan and related additional materials and studies in their area of specialists and researchers made. Thank you very much for their hard work! It is a development plan with the most people, ministries and other agencies, universities and research institutions involved. But it is no longer the responsibility of the authors of this plan, but of the officials and politicians. Cultural, political and socio-economic successful integration is required by the knowledge of the national language. Whether small or more, it is not so important, but it is important to want to speak the language of the country in which you live. That is why I became particularly concerned with the results of the studies on language learning. Overall, there is nothing surprising about the results. The more the Estonian language is known, the more the processes in society are understood, the more one or the other reform is needed in the country, the more cultural events are attended, listened to, read or viewed even a little bit of local media. On the contrary, those who do not understand the Estonian language at all or who understand it minimally do not understand the changes made by the state and do not know which services are provided by the local government and state agencies. It's like these people have built an invisible wall around them, and it's becoming more and more difficult to involve them in society. The reality is, according to the research, sad. Yes, the trend is positive, the number of Estonian speakers is increasing, but this trend is obviously getting worse too slowly. I think that our development plans and their funding would allow us to move forward at a much longer pace. I will only read out a few of the observations made by the researchers in their summaries. This concerns only school pupils and their teachers. It turned out that teachers do not have teaching methods to support the development of children in other languages. Moreover, teachers find any shortcomings in teaching children in other languages, with the exception of the most critical aspect of the teacher's own lack of knowledge and skills. On the other hand, it turns out that the skills of Estonian teachers vary according to their training. Russian school teachers proved to be much more effective in teaching mathematics, for example, than Estonian school teachers. This indicates a systematic shortage in the training of Estonian teachers. Based on the data collected, the researchers point out that some teachers use inefficient and emotionally frustrating teaching methods and educational styles. In this way, it is not possible to attract an interest in the Estonian language in a young person. We have achieved, and will continue to have, a completely opposite effect to what we want. However, the studies show a lot of positive results. For example, the parents of children in other languages have chosen the Estonian school to be satisfied with the selected school in most cases and would not change their choice if they had to do it again. These were just a few torn-out examples. I warmly recommend to everyone who cares about this issue, but especially politicians who have to decide on further steps, to definitely read the research materials and projects that relate to the integration plan. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U158	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U159	I would also like to mark the subject that we have in the Committee on Culture. This topic is Estonian language courses for residents of other languages either to apply for citizenship or to get a job. They are mostly carried out for EU project funding. In order to find a trainer, a competition will be announced, which will, of course, win the cheapest training provider. As in other areas, the same conclusion must be drawn here: the cheapest is not always the best. The most distressing thing is that abuse has also occurred: training by paper seems to be taking place, but they are not really being carried out. One task is, of course, to ensure that fictitious trainings are excluded in the future. The second aspect, however, is that when we conduct competitions with such conditions, we exclude our higher education institutions, our competent faculty. In my opinion, the point here is to think about how to organise future calls for language training so that our universities, who offer the best quality, can also carry out the training. Integration policy can only be effective if we have one public policy based on a policy-oriented path. Unfortunately, that is not the case. One of the most recent examples of politicians moving completely in the opposite direction from integration measures is the decision of the rulers of our capital that only Russian can continue to be used as a language of instruction in the five upper secondary schools of Tallinn. There is no other way to assess this decision. Yes, the elections are coming again, and once again people who speak different languages are dragged into their campaign carts. What is more, many very different studies and social scientists confirm that the better the language is known, the better a young person can cope with the labour market. Better education, better pay. I agree with those who criticize the fluctuating level of learning material. There is still room for improvement in this area. These bottlenecks are actually known and there should be no compromise in the quality of the teaching material. The government, the ministry and the institutions it manages must find a quick solution to how new, modern teaching material could also be developed for Russian-language upper secondary schools and give young people the opportunity to learn from it. I've already talked about teacher training and refresher training. Finally, I call on you to take a first and crucial joint step towards implementing the integration plan: we agree that we are more statesmen than we have been so far, and we do not oppose people in the forthcoming Riigikogu elections, based on their nationality and mother tongue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U160	Thank you very much. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U161	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, We have ahead of us a development plan for integration until 2020. This is the third sectoral development plan. A lot of work is done. My tribute to everyone who drew up this development plan, and also to the Minister who introduced it here in this Chamber today! However, I am concerned about the situation that I asked my colleague Lauri Luige about. Some time ago, the leaders of the so-called old European countries made a résumé that they had failed their integration practice. Great Britain's migration policy must also be taken seriously. Considering that the experience of these countries in this area is much longer than ours, it seems that this practice can be taken as a test for us. We could count on that. But my time is limited, I can only touch a few areas. The development plan is structured in such a way as to dominate social relations. It can be said to be a social-institutional document. This is understandable because the implementation of the development plan requires leadership and administration. At the same time, the question arises as to whether socio-institutionalism embraces or covers the area of integration in a holistic way. Ethnological assessment of processes in Estonia is not allowed. Ethnic stereotypes, experience in this field and ethnocultural behaviour are very important, as they provide an opportunity to get answers to questions about why people behave like this and not differently. It should be taken into account that there are almost 150 ethnic communities in Estonia and that some ethnostereotypes conflict with each other. The role of Estonians in the integration process as a whole and the expectations of other communities as to the model on which this sectoral plan has been established. This is the second question: what model is the basis of the plan? If we were to exaggerate historically and ignore the extremes, then we have two models. They're assimilation and symbiosis. Estonia's sectoral practice lies between them: with one leg we stand in assimilation and with the other in symbiosis. All integration practice has been "soft assimilation" in recent years. This can be concluded on the basis of statistics. I do not currently have data for last year and this year, but every year hundreds of people from different communities have changed their last name to Estonian. The question arises as to what its real, not rhetorical, objectives are. Which model is needed to formulate objectives and values, create social institutions and relationships on this basis? In our time, we defined principles that could serve as a basis for joint action: a permanent dialogue, a bilateral or multilateral integration process. But the practice showed that one-sided monologue and one-sided claims dominated. This behaviour gave birth to new stereotypes, which can be summed up by attitude: it is your country, it is your government, it is independent of us. When you say 'integration', you can feel a bad attitude toward it among non-Estonians. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U162	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U163	Here is also the answer to the question why the process of democratisation in Ida-Virumaa is considered less important than on average in Estonia. It is known that in Ida-Virumaa, the smallest percentage of citizens with voting rights participate in Riigikogu elections. And here it is not just a question of evaluating the statistical turnout; it is a question of much deeper and greater significance. This situation weakens partnership and needs to be taken into account. According to psychologists, in order to change established stereotypes, a number of new stereotypes need to be established. Do we have enough resources, including time resources, to allow ourselves to be lost in the integration process? For several years, the work of local authorities in this area has been discussed. At present, they are not obliged to deal with the area of integration. Of course, some municipalities support the associations of national culture, but this is only a part of the required activity, but still only a part. Only Tallinn came up with its integration programme and the Peace Forum. In general, however, the partnership between the state and local authorities has become weak. Perhaps it is time to change the role of local authorities in the process, the state and local authorities should act together. One important objective is to reduce the number of stateless persons. This is an objective long ago, and according to it, the success of the scheme has been assessed. On this point, I will briefly say that there is a debate ahead of us on the draft law amending the Citizenship Act, and the Central Party Group has tabled its amendments on this draft. We hope that this time their debate will be in a more positive atmosphere. Next: Estonian language education. In time, the discussion was a priority, either the Estonian language or the Estonian mind. The priority was given to the language, the mind was hidden. Language training has shown that problems persist. We cannot say that the bottlenecks that were formulated ten years ago have been resolved. Last point: regional activities, including in Ida-Virumaa. The situation in Ida-Virumaa has changed a lot over the last five to six years. It is known that the World Bank monitors and assesses the state of affairs in different countries and regions. For many years Ida-Virumaa's qualified workforce meant a resource for Estonia, but five or six years ago Ida-Virumaa and Estonia lost this resource. The reason is emigration. In Ida-Virumaa, this process was the most intense. But my time is up. Finally, I refer to the article published last week in Postimees, which reflected the author's assessment of the integration process. I understand that freedom of expression is an important matter, but such statements call into question the actions of the entire country. The question arises, which reflects the honest attitude towards integration, either reflects the country's integration plan or reflects the position of Estonians. In this context, there is a need for confidence in the evaluation. How much does trust cost? Trust cannot be measured how big or small it is, trust is or is not. Trust is a great asset. I very much hope that we have enough strength to maintain trust to take care of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U164	Thank you. Please, let's try to stay within the extended time frame. Call's over, I'm closing the negotiations. The debate on this item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U165	We're going to the next item. The second reading of the draft State Fees Act 725 initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Member of the Finance Commission, Remo Holsmer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U166	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The bill of state fees 725 is before you. Let me briefly talk about the substance of the draft. Firstly, most of the changes provided for in this draft concern rounding of state fees. When the euro was introduced, the rates of state fees were recalculated to the nearest cent. The purpose of rounding is to make it easier for people to pay fees and easier for those who charge them to manage and take account of them. The fee rates shall be rounded up to the nearest reasonable currency unit. Secondly, the state fees for the activities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Education and Research, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Tax and Customs Board are amended on the basis of the cost principles laid down in the State Fees Act, i.e. the state fee must be cost-based and not subsidised. At the meetings of the Committee on Finance, we discussed the draft on 11 and 17 November and 1 December. No amendments were tabled by the members of the Riigikogu, committees or political groups within the deadline for submitting amendments. However, when preparing its amendments, the Committee on Monetary Affairs has taken into account the proposals sent to the Commission by the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Agriculture during the procedure. These proposals received in the course of the procedure have also been supported by the Ministry of Finance. As a result, the commission has prepared 20 amendments. I call them the two most important. Amendment 4 aims to make it cheaper and more convenient for the applicant to identify the parentage. To this end, the rules on the costs of examining an action for establishing a parentage in the Code of Civil Procedure are amended and the rules on the state fee payable for an action for establishing a parentage in the State Tax Act are amended. The impulse to prepare for this change came from the Chancellor of Justice. This proposal was supported by consensus by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Amendment 8 concerns the area of government of the Ministry of Agriculture. Due to the rise in fees, the Estonian Chamber of Agriculture and Commerce turned to the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu and the Committee on Rural Affairs after the first reading of the draft was completed and processed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Their proposal was not to increase the fees in the form initially proposed in the draft. On 5 November, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Chamber of Agriculture organised a meeting with representatives of the sector, which led the Ministry of Agriculture to submit proposals to the Committee on Finance for consideration to amend the state fees in the field of organic farming, seed certification and plant variety rights. These proposals were supported by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I repeat that, at the beginning, we were presented with a draft on the basis of which these rates should have increased, the process that took place in the Riigikogu had resulted in the withdrawal of these proposals and no increase in the rates. As I said before, there are 20 amendments in total, two of which maybe the most important ones I have mentioned here. The remaining proposals are of a technical nature. The Finance Committee decided, after lengthy and in-depth discussions, to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by today, 3 December, with the proposal to conclude the second reading of the draft. I would also recommend that you support this bill. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U167	Thank you. One question has now been asked. Dear colleague Jüri Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U168	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good waitress, first of all, I would like to thank you for the very thorough and, dare I say, for the substantive overview you gave of the draft 725. As you said, 20 amendments were received from the commission. The Steering Committee supported all these amendments because it had itself made them. You have quite a long experience in working on the Riigikogu committee and dealing with drafts. Could this draft be used as a basis for good procedural practice in other cases in order to find as many consensual aspects of society as possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U169	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Unlike you, I'm only in the fourth year of the Riigikogu. Your experience has certainly been nearly twice as long-term. I believe that examples of how the Commission has unanimously supported the amendments are also found in the practice of the previous composition. If you mean whether there has been such good legislative practice during its composition, that the Committee on Monetary Affairs or any other committee has done substantial work, improved the bill, both at committee meetings and, in essence, also at the Riigikogu, today we are going to examine the amendments, I believe that this is a good example. You can certainly give this to your voters as an example in the election campaign.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U170	Thank you for the extraordinarily substantive question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U171	He's leaving.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U172	He no longer wants to listen to the following questions, although Siret Kotka certainly has a very substantive question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U173	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good front speaker! At the meeting of the Estonian Chamber of Agriculture and Trade with the Committee on Rural Affairs, there was talk of state fees. The farmers were very surprised that they actually wanted to raise the state fees behind their backs. In the Committee on Rural Affairs, the Chamber made it very clear that part of the state fees in the agricultural sector should be withdrawn from the State Tax Act. Did you have that on the committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U174	I also pointed out in my report that the Chamber of Agriculture met with representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture and the sector on 5 November. He met, as I understand it, with the Committee on Rural Affairs. As a result of these meetings, a proposal was sent to the Committee on Monetary Affairs to withdraw the rates of state fees indicated in the initial version of the draft proposal, i.e. not to increase the rates of state fees. The Committee on Finance supported this proposal and it is on your tables.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U175	The next questioner is Jaanus Tamkivi. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U176	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very In the Commission, did you get an overview of how Estonia looks in terms of the state tax economy compared to other European countries? After all, we like to compare ourselves to whether we are taller or shorter than others. How's the picture in this area? Are our state fees even comparable to those of other European countries in terms of number and size?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U177	Thank you. This bill is based on two ideological guidelines. One is that state fees are rounded to the nearest cent. The second is that state fees should be cost-oriented. According to the Chancellor of Justice, it is a bit out of the scope of the draft, but the question was about it, the rates of state fees in civil proceedings are too high. During the debate in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, we were given an overview of the state fees of other countries. In the context of this draft, the focus of the Commission's debate was rather on the time when ministries could be able to make state fees cost-oriented in their area. The state is currently carrying out a larger audit and the ministries have been asked to provide a detailed overview of the cost-orientation of the fees by March next year. Hopefully, either in the second half of next year or sometime later, proposals will come to adjust the state fees. If no one has been able to make the fees cost-oriented by then, then the government will certainly propose it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U178	Thank you very much for these thorough answers. There's no more questions, people have it all figured out. It is now possible to speak. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. Let us examine the amendments, all of which have been made by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Amendments 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19 and 20. All the proposals have been made by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the Commission's proposal has been fully taken into account. The amendments have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 725. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U179	The next item is the second reading of the Draft Planning Act 571 initiated by the Government of the Republic. For a presentation, I would like to ask Deniss Borodichi, member of the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U180	President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, The Government of the Republic is known to have initiated a draft planning act in 571 s. a January 13th. I'll give you a little reminder. The most important changes to the draft law are the delineation and coherence of the scope with other areas of law and the setting of clear principles, including the establishment of principles for public participation and access to information, balance of interests, universality, rational, rational and sustainable land use and improvement of quality of life. The planning process has now been thoroughly harmonised with the Strategic Environmental Assessment (SEA) procedure. The procedures have been integrated in stages and the requirements for cooperation and inclusion have been harmonised. Plans and their procedures are differentiated by species, with separate procedural rules for each species being set out. The tasks of the plans have been partly modified and the changes and coherence of the tasks have been analysed according to the different types. The first reading of the draft act took place in the Riigikogu's plenary session. February 25, 2008 and it was closed. The deadline for tabling amendments was 25 March 2014. The proposals were presented by the Centre Party Group and the Social Democratic Party Group, but the Social Democratic Party Group withdrew its proposals on 7 October. That's why they're not on this list. The Economic Commission was also presented with opinions and suggestions from a large number of organisations: ministries, the Cities Association, the Association of Rural Municipalities, companies, etc. In addition, on 5 May, the Commission decided to hold a public hearing in the Riigikogu conference hall, where we invited all interested parties to attend, so that they could submit and discuss opinions and proposals on the draft. That's what happened. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the amendments to the draft and the referral to second reading at its three meetings on 4, 6 and 11 November. A total of 139 amendments to the draft have been tabled. I would add that the text of the draft text was reviewed by the Counsellor of the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, whose comments have given rise to amendments. In most cases, the amendments are technical in nature, precise and correct, but since there are many of them, the commission adopted the decision to send the draft planning law initiated by the Government of the Republic to the Riigikogu for a second reading by 3 December, i.e. today, and proposes to interrupt the second reading. We also propose that the deadline for submitting amendments be 10 working days, i.e. 17 December at 5 p.m. So if, in your opinion, a subject or a fact has not been dealt with in the draft or has been mistreated, within ten working days, both the political groups and the MPs will be able to make new proposals to the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U181	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U182	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I didn't participate in this conference-like event, but I see from here that there are many amendments and that what deals with special planning is underlined. Why don't you get a closer look at the contents of these changes? Is there a relationship here at all, and if so, what is the relationship between'special plan and inclusion','special plan and local government'? What role will they play?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U183	I think that you can read it in detail in the text of the draft, but in general, a new type of procedure, a special plan is applied, in the event of a justified interest of the state in certain circumstances, which are indeed of national importance. Involvement takes place at least three times in the case of a special plan, as well as in the case of other plans. Strategic environmental assessment is required. The choice of place may not be very clear at the beginning, so that inclusion takes place, first, later, in the general idea and third time when the plan is ready. Certainly all involvement takes place through the local government. At the moment, I think that engagement and public information are quite well resolved.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U184	Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U185	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I've dealt with these things a lot in my life. In my experience, I can say that this draft will increase bureaucracy, if not twice, then definitely one and a half times. But since you were determined to reject most of the proposals in the Commission that tried to cut red tape, and so you probably know this area far better than I do, I wonder how many percent of this bill's legal status you think increases bureaucracy compared to the current situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U186	Thank you. I am not going to speculate now on this board whether there will be more or less red tape in the future. However, we must certainly take into account, when dealing with various legislation, that, for example, in the case of an environmental impact assessment, where very many requirements arise from a European directive, we must deal with disclosure, we must involve the public. I'm sure it takes time, and sometimes it can stretch. I think it is positive in this draft that, for the first time, we put a specific deadline in the law for planning procedures. All of this procedure must fit into three years, i.e. within three years, for example, the local authority must decide whether or not to establish the plan. There is no such requirement at the moment. We all know that there are a lot of plans that are being dealt with for over ten years. So it is early to speculate, but the legislator has taken a clear interest in the involvement of the public, and at the same time there is a desire to cut red tape. But no law is eternal. If you really think that this law can be made even better and more open and that the procedure can be speeded up, then, as I said, within ten working days, you will be able to table amendments. Certainly the legislator is not interested in having a very slow planning procedure, not being public and too bureaucratic.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U187	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U188	Thank you. Good colleague! I'm interested in local governments with districts. There aren't many of them, but I still want to be more specific. After the strategic environmental impact assessment of the overall plan, is the public display of the overall plan taking place in the district or is it taking place in the municipality and then in the district? Is this a two- or one-step process?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U189	Thank you. It was also one of the amendments that we have tabled that it must take place at the centre of the district in those cities where there are also districts.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U190	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Deniss Borodich! Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. 139 amendments to the draft have been tabled. [[Interjection.]] The amendments still need to be examined. I will name proposals by section so that we can review them all beautifully. The Committee on Economic Affairs has proposed no 1 to 6 proposals. Proposals No 1, No 2, No 3, No 4, No 5 and No 6 have been fully taken into account. Proposal No 7 is from the Centre Party Group; the proposal is essentially to be taken into account. Proposals No 8 to 13 are from the Committee on Economic Affairs. Proposals No 8, No 9, No 10, No 11, No 12 and No 13 have been fully taken into account. Number 14 is from the Centre Party Group; the lead committee proposes not to take the proposal into account. According to § 106 (2) of the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the proposal is not put to the vote. Number 15 is from the Committee on Economic Affairs; it is proposed that we take full account of it. Number 16 is from the Centre Party Group, and the lead committee proposes to be disregarded. The proposal shall not be put to the vote. Proposals Nos 17 and 18 are from the Committee on Economic Affairs; the commission proposes to take full account of them. Number 19 is from the Centre Party Group; the proposal of the commission is essentially to be taken into account. The number 20 is from the Centre Party Group, the lead committee proposes to be disregarded. The proposal shall not be put to the vote. The number 21 is from the Centre Party Group, the lead committee proposes to be disregarded. The proposal shall not be put to the vote. Amendments 22 to 60 are from the Committee on Economic Affairs. The proposal of the Steering Committee is to take them fully into account by number 22, No 23, No 24, No 25, No 26, No 27, No 28, No 29, No 30, No 31, No 32, No 33, No 34, No 35, No 36, No 37, No 38, No 39, No 40, No 41, No 42, No 43, No 44, No 45, No 46, No 47, No 48, No 49, No 50, No 51, No 52, No 53, No 54, No 55, No 56, No 57, No 58, No 59 and No 60. Number 61 is from the Centre Party Group; it is proposed to take full account. Number 62 is from the Economic Commission, fully accounted for. Number 63 is from the Economic Commission, fully accounted for. Number 64 is from the Centre Party faction and is partly accounted for. Number 65 is from the Centre Party Group; it is proposed not to be taken into account. Proposals No 66 just 68 come from the Committee on Economic Affairs. The 66th, 67th and 68th proposals are to be fully taken into account. Number 69 is from the Centre Party Group; it is proposed to take full account. Number 70 is from the Centre Party Group; it is proposed not to be taken into account. Proposals No 71.73 are from the Committee on Economic Affairs. The number 71, number 72 and number 73 are proposed to be fully taken into account. Number 74 is from the Centre Party Group; the proposal is essentially to be taken into account. The number 75 is from the Centre Party Group, and the commission proposes not to take account of it. The proposal shall not be put to the vote. Number 76 is from the Committee on Economic Affairs; the proposal is to be fully taken into account. Number 77 is from the Centre Party Group; the proposal is essentially to be taken into account. Proposals No 78-99 are from the Committee on Economic Affairs; they are to be fully taken into account. Number 78, No 79, No 80, No 81, No 82, No 83, No 84, No 85, No 86, No 87, No 88, No 89, No 90, No 91, No 92, No 93, No 94, No 95, No 96, No 97, No 98 and No 99. Proposal No 100 is from the Centre Party Group; the proposal is essentially to be taken into account. Proposals No 101.103 have been taken fully into account by the Committee on Economic Affairs. Number 104 is from the Centre Party Group, and the lead committee proposes to be disregarded. The proposal shall not be put to the vote. Number 105 is from the Centre Party Group; it is proposed not to be taken into account. Number 106 is from the Centre Party Group; it is proposed not to be taken into account. Proposals No 107.109 are from the Committee on Economic Affairs; the proposal is to be fully taken into account. The number 110 is from the Centre Party Group, the lead committee proposes to be disregarded. The proposal shall not be put to the vote. Number 111 is from the Committee on Economic Affairs; the proposal is to be fully taken into account. Number 112 is from the Committee on Economic Affairs, and it is proposed that we take full account of it. Number 113 is from the Centre Party Group; it is proposed not to be taken into account. Number 114 is from the Centre Party Group, the lead committee proposes to be disregarded. The proposal shall not be put to the vote. Number 115 is from the Centre Party Group; it is proposed not to be taken into account. Number 116 is from the Committee on Economic Affairs; the proposal is to be fully taken into account. Number 117 is from the Centre Party Group; it is proposed not to be taken into account. Number 118 is from the Centre Party Group; it is proposed not to be taken into account. Number 119 is from the Centre Party, the lead commission proposes to be disregarded. The proposal shall not be put to the vote. The number 120 is from the Centre Party, and the commission proposes not to. The proposal shall not be put to the vote. Number 121 is from the Centre Party Group; it is proposed not to be taken into account. Number 122 is from the Committee on Economic Affairs, and it is proposed that we take full account of it. Number 123 is from the Centre Party Group; it is proposed not to be taken into account. Number 124 is from the Committee on Economic Affairs; the proposal is to be fully taken into account. The number 125 is from the Centre Party Group; it is proposed not to be taken into account. Number 126 is from the Centre Party Group; it is proposed not to be taken into account. The number 127 is from the Committee on Economic Affairs; it is proposed that we take full account of it. The number 128 is from the Centre Party Group; it is proposed not to be taken into account. Number 129 is from the Committee on Economic Affairs, and the proposal is to be taken fully into account. The number 130 is from the Centre Party Group; it is proposed not to be taken into account. Number 131 is from the Committee on Economic Affairs; the proposal is to be fully taken into account. Number 132 is from the Centre Party Group; it is proposed not to be taken into account. Number 133 is from the Centre Party Group; it is proposed not to be taken into account. The number 134 and the number 135 are both from the Committee on Economic Affairs; the proposal is to be fully taken into account. Number 136 is from the Centre Party Group; it is proposed not to be taken into account. Number 137 is from the Committee on Economic Affairs; the proposal is to be fully taken into account. Number 138 is from the Centre Party Group; it is proposed not to be taken into account. Number 139 is from the Committee on Economic Affairs; the proposal is to be fully taken into account. All amendments have been examined. The Governing Commission proposes that the second reading of draft 571 should be interrupted. I will set the deadline for the submission of 571 amendments. 17 December at 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U191	We will discuss the next item. The second reading of the draft building code 555 initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. For a presentation, I would like to ask Deniss Borodichi, member of the Committee on Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U192	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, Again, to refresh your memory, this draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 9 December last year. The most important changes to the draft law are the consolidation of rules on specific areas and structures and the establishment of uniform legal bases. Basically, all the laws relating to buildings, which I remember in 12, are grouped together into one code. The areas to be regulated are: general buildings, electrical installations, communication buildings, pressure pipelines and vessels, railway infrastructure and facilities serving it, lifts, cableway installations and other lifting equipment, roads, buildings in public water bodies and buildings of national defence and security authorities. In addition, the Code regulates the requirements for energy efficiency and the protection zone of buildings and combines the provisions on supervision and liability. Common definitions and procedural rules have been established in these areas, duplicative and conflicting rules have been removed. This is expected to reduce the administrative burden and make the implementation of the law clearer for the individual. The design specifications, the content of the design specifications, the basis for the award, the procedure, including the time limits for the procedure, and the inclusion have been further regulated than in the past. For people, perhaps the closest thing to their hearts is the reduction in the obligation to ask for permits. It is clearly regulated when the building must be notified and when the permit is required. Information is free of state fees, which reduces the cost of private individuals and reduces the administrative burden on local authorities in particular. The time for granting a building permit will also be reduced as the whole procedure will take place in the building register, where electronic coordination will also take place. The state and local authorities are obliged to provide electronic coordination within 10 days; the person no longer has to run from one authority to another. The first reading of the draft act took place in the Riigikogu's plenary session. February 25, 2008 and it was closed. By the deadline for the submission of amendments, 25 March 2014, amendments were tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. In addition, representatives of Tallinn City Planning Agency, many other municipalities and other organisations submitted opinions and proposals to the Economic Commission. During the processing of this draft, the Committee on Economic Affairs considered it appropriate to hold a public hearing in the conference hall of the Riigikogu. It was June 9th. All parties submitting opinions and proposals were involved. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the amendments to the draft and the referral to second reading at its meeting on 20 November. A total of 76 amendments came from the Commission and the Centre Party Group. Once again, we decided that, although most of these amendments are of a technical nature, it would be more appropriate to come to the House with a revised text. The commission adopted the decision to send the draft building code initiated by the Government of the Republic to the Riigikogu for second reading. a by 3 December, i.e. today. Our proposal is to interrupt the second reading and set a deadline of 10 working days for the submission of amendments, so the deadline is 17 December at 17. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U193	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? Please, Väino Linde! Please, start asking!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U194	I see. Thanks, I quit!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U195	I don't want to ask. Please, Jaanus Tamkivi!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U196	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I have the same question as Mr Kallo asked earlier about this bill. When this bill is being processed, how does it feel whether there is a tendency to increase bureaucracy or whether there is hope that it will be reduced?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U197	Thank you. In my personal opinion, the legislator's aim is to make it easier to allow construction for a very large number of types of buildings. But I'm sure anything can happen in life. In the old days, most things went under permit procedure. The construction code contains tables showing the types of buildings and describing which building can easily be built, which construction can be started by informing the local government, for which construction project is needed and for which building permit is needed. Authorisation will be needed for a much smaller number of operations than at present. I think that this process should therefore become much simpler and less bureaucratic for both local authorities and ordinary citizens. For example, in order to build a shed or a sauna of up to 20 square metres, the municipality does not even need to be informed in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U198	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. Is there a desire to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. 76 amendments to the draft have been tabled. Let's go through them. Amendments 1 to 3 are from the Committee on Economic Affairs; they are to be fully taken into account. Number 4 is from the Centre Party Group; it is proposed to take full account. Proposals No 5.8 are from the Committee on Economic Affairs; they are to be fully taken into account. Number 9 is from the Centre Party Group, the lead committee proposes to be disregarded. The proposal is not put to the vote pursuant to § 106 (2) of the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. Proposals No 10.12 are from the Committee on Economic Affairs; they are to be fully taken into account. Number 13 is from the Centre Party Group; it is proposed not to be taken into account. Proposals No 14.19 are from the Committee on Economic Affairs, and the proposal of the commission is to take them fully into account. The number 20 is from the Centre Party Group, the lead committee proposes to be disregarded. Proposal No 20 shall not be put to the vote. Number 21 is from the Centre Party Group; the proposal of the commission is essentially to be taken into account. Number 22 is from the Committee on Economic Affairs; the proposal is to be fully taken into account. Number 23 is from the Centre Party Group; it is proposed not to be taken into account. Number 24 is from the Economic Commission; the proposal is to be fully taken into account. Number 25 is from the Centre Party Group; the proposal of the commission is to ignore it. Proposal No 25 shall not be put to the vote. Number 26 is from the Centre Party Group; it is proposed to take full account. Proposals 27 and 28 are from the Committee on Economic Affairs; they are to be fully taken into account. Proposal No 29 is from the Centre Party Group; the proposal is to be fully taken into account. The number 30 is from the Committee on Economic Affairs; it is proposed that we take full account of it. Number 31 is from the Centre Party Group; it is proposed to take full account. The number 32 is from the Committee on Economic Affairs; the proposal is to be fully taken into account. The number 33 is from the Centre Party Group; the proposal is essentially to be taken into account. Number 34 is from the Economic Commission; it is proposed that we take full account of it. Number 35 is from the Centre Party Group; it is proposed not to be taken into account. Proposal No 35 shall not be put to the vote. The number 36 is from the Committee on Economic Affairs; the proposal is to be fully taken into account. Number 37 is from the Centre Party Group; it is proposed to take full account. Proposals No 38.42 are from the Committee on Economic Affairs; they are to be fully taken into account. Number 43 is from the Centre Party Group; it is proposed not to be taken into account. Proposal 43 shall not be put to the vote. The Economic Commission has proposed a number of proposals, the lead committee proposes that they be fully taken into account. Number 70 is from the Centre Party Group; it is proposed not to be taken into account. Proposal 70 shall not be put to the vote. The Committee on Economic Affairs has put forward proposals No 71-76; they are proposed to be fully taken into account. The amendments have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to interrupt the second reading of draft 555. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 555 amendments at 17 December. This item has also been dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U199	We're going to the next item. The first reading of the Bill 758 on Safety of the Device initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Mr Urve Palo, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, would you like to present the speech chair?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U200	Good evening, Madam Vice-Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Let me briefly talk about this bill. The purpose of the draft Act on the Safety of Equipment is to protect the life, health and property of a person and the environment from risks arising from potentially hazardous devices and their use. Compliance with the principles and requirements laid down by law minimises the likelihood of hazards arising from the device, its use and operation and reduces the amount of damage that may be caused. This is not about creating a new right, but, above all, about setting up the right. The new law replaces four existing laws: the Law on the Safety of Pressure Equipment, the Act on the Safety of Fuel Gas, the Machinery Safety Act and the Electricity Safety Act. These laws will be repealed. The current law is fragmented and often incomplete due to the multiplicity of laws with a similar objective and regulation. The Safety of Equipment Act creates a single whole and allows to avoid problems arising from fragmentation of law, including gaps. The Equipment Safety Act does not contain any new requirements and does not entail any change in the technical requirements. There are no concessions on substantive and safety requirements in the draft. The draft is neither more liberal in substance nor stricter than the existing law. It is still based on the assumption that safety is ensured by the competence and due diligence of persons in contact with the device in compliance with the requirements imposed on the device, including compliance with the maintenance requirements and the periodic inspection, or audit, by a third party. The instruments mentioned in the Act are already in use and are in line with industry practice. Safety can only be ensured if the law itself, as well as the installation and use of the equipment, meet the requirements. It is also necessary that persons in contact with the device have sufficient knowledge and skills. The characteristics of the device change over time and there may also be dangerous failures due to their use. It is therefore important to maintain the equipment and periodically check it. The operator of the device must first monitor the condition, but often it is not possible to detect the condition without special knowledge or special equipment. Even if the user has specific knowledge, he may not correctly and objectively assess the risks associated with the device. Therefore, the user of the device must ensure the supervision of an independent competent person for certain equipment, i.e. an audit, i.e. a technical inspection. The law is scheduled to enter into force on 1 July 2015. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U201	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Urve Palo. I would like to speak with Kalev Kallemetsa, member of the Committee on Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U202	President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On 17 November, we discussed this draft law in the Committee on Economic Affairs. This is a merger of existing laws. Commission members had some questions about the technical requirements for hydrogen and gas cars and amusement park equipment. We got answers to them. One issue is likely to be discussed in the Commission before the second reading, and I am thinking of the responsibility for non-compliance referred to in Chapter 5, § 16. It is under discussion how much fines should be imposed to avoid harm to human life and health, to things or to the environment. But there was no discussion on other issues in the Commission. It was proposed that the first reading be completed and that the deadline for submitting proposals for amendments be set at 10 working days, i.e. the 17th hop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U203	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Kalev Kallemets. Is there a desire to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. The Commission's proposal is that the first reading of draft 758 should be completed. First reading is complete. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft at 17 December.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U204	We have an excellent opportunity to discuss the next item. The first reading of the Act amending the General Part of the Environmental Code, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and in this connection the draft law amending other laws, begins. For a presentation please address the Minister of Environment Mati Raidma!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U205	Honourable Riigikogu! You have received a draft law amending the General Part of the Environmental Code Act prepared at the Ministry of the Environment and, in this context, the amendment of other laws, the main objectives of which are to provide for the possibility of implementing special national supervision measures and misdemeanour liability to comply with the rules of the Forest Act, to resolve the supervisory authority's competence in monitoring compliance with the requirements of the Forest Act and to create greater legal clarity in determining the period of validity of licences for hydrogeological works. Under the Law Enforcement Act, the Environmental Inspectorate and the local government are currently able to apply general law enforcement measures in the event of a breach of shoreline regulation, but it is not possible to apply special measures as the law does not provide for it directly. General measures include, in particular, the issuing of a warning and precept and the imposition of a penalty payment. In particular, specific measures to take specific measures are access to the premises, questioning people and the document can be required unexpectedly, and such a possibility must be provided for by law. The amendment does not create new legislation, but brings the existing rules into the General Part of the Environmental Code Act. According to the draft, the Environmental Inspectorate and the local authority may take specific measures such as questioning and requiring documents, summoning and coercing, entering the premises and examining them. If necessary, the Environmental Inspectorate may also detain the person. It excludes the possibility of taking specific measures provided for in the Law Enforcement Act, such as vehicle suspension and actions relating to movable property, since the analysis found that they were not necessary to comply with the rules on shoreline. The maximum amount of the coercion shall be the same as in the Nature Conservation Act of EUR 32000. The amount of the penalty shall be assessed on a case-by-case basis and the penalty shall be determined on the basis of the principle of proportionality. The more difficult and dangerous the possible consequences of an infringement of the law, and the more important the public good, which is being restricted, the greater the penalty money applicable. Therefore, the maximum possible penalty rate must be one that weighs even the greatest commercial interest. The role of responsibility is analogous to that of the Nature Conservation Act. The fines shall be the same: 300 daily base units for natural persons and EUR 3200 for legal persons. The composition of the offence is formulated more precisely than the violation of the beach and shore protection requirements laid down in the Nature Conservation Act. The Nature Protection Act lays down a number of beach and shore protection requirements, whereas the regulation of the shoreline was only part of it. Ares has been excluded from the draft, because closing the shoreline is not such a serious and dangerous misdemeanour for society that taking freedom should be applied as a punishment. The Nature Protection Act excludes legitimate expectation that an illegal building set up in a construction ban zone will survive. Since national supervision may dismantle a shoreline barrier or a feather, it is important to rule out legitimate expectation in the event of a possible dispute that the building will survive even in the event of illegal blocking or closing of the shoreline. The amendment to the Forest Act clarifies the competence of the Environmental Board and the Environmental Inspectorate to monitor compliance with the forest protection requirements laid down in the Forest Act. In essence, the new regulation is not being introduced, but the text of the law is being clarified on the basis of established practice. The amendment to the Water Act relates to the entry into force of the Law on the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities on 1 July 2014. According to the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities Act, some of the authorisations granted so far for a limited period of time have become permanent since 1 July 2014, unless the authorisation requirements have changed. Licences for hydrological work granted before that date for two years cannot automatically become permanent, as the requirements for authorisation have changed. Currently, licences for hydrogeological works granted before 1 July 2014 are subject to the general rule laid down in the Administrative Procedure Act, according to which the licence is valid until the end of the term. Since it is not interpreted in the same way by all authorities, it is necessary to lay down an implementing provision which clearly states that authorisations for hydrogeological works granted before 1 July 2014 are valid until the expiry of the deadline. Dear Riigikogu, I would like to ask you to support the amendments proposed by the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U206	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. Please, Kalev Kallemets!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U207	Minister, thank you very much. Perhaps you heard my previous presentation when I introduced a bill and brought forward the fines proposed by the ministry officials for wrongdoing. Do you have an overview, there is a system in the Ministry of the Environment, which is the level of fines from the minimum rate to the maximum rate and the link between these rates and misdemeanours? Is there such a system of fines related to the seriousness of the act, as far as you know?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U208	Thank you. I suggest that there is no so-called menu, because every action is very specific and it is done in a specific environment, under specific conditions, with a specific background. However, the amount of the penalty shall be determined on a case-by-case basis and shall be based on the principle of proportionality. The scale of the rates is really very wide and in any case a separate decision must be taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U209	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U210	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. If this law is passed, the workload of the Environmental Board will increase. I believe there will also be extra costs. I'd like to know if there's money in next year's budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U211	Thank you. No specific budgetary changes are foreseen for this draft. This bill is certainly a major step forward in preserving the environment. Next year, the Environmental Inspectorate will do its best to carry out the tasks that will be added to this draft. However, it should be underlined that this draft also intends to give the employees of the Environmental Inspectorate many new rights so that they can better carry out the tasks they have so far lacked in a specific area, i.e. in the area of shorelines.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U212	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much, Minister of the Environment Mati Raidma! I would like to ask for a co-presentation by Rainer Vakra, Chairman of the Committee on the Environment of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U213	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu discussed the draft on two occasions: 11 and 17 November. One of the most important issues raised in the Committee on the Environment was what will change specifically for the Environmental Inspectorate when this legislative amendment is adopted. The representative of the Environmental Inspectorate explained that they would be able to prosecute the offenders again because, from the entry into force of the General Part of the Environmental Code Act until today, the offenders who have illegally closed the shoreline have not been punished by misdemeanour. No other significant changes will be made. The situation is becoming clearer for people and they no longer need to read several laws. If the cottage owner's garden goes up to the waterline, the inspection has the right to punish him and there are penalty rates. The maximum penalty under the bill is 300 fine units, or 1200 euros. It still ends with the shoreline being free. Administrative procedures will be initiated, and if the landowner does not open the shoreline by the deadline laid down in the precept, the Environmental Inspectorate will hire the builders to break down the obstacle there. Members of the Commission had a number of questions. For example, how long will it take approximately to open the shoreline from the beginning of the procedure to the actual release of the runway? It turned out that if a person is not cooperative and does not want to open the shoreline himself, it will take three to four months if everything goes well. But there are also procedures that last a year or a half. The vice-president of the Commission, Erki Arrow, asked whether the Environmental Inspectorate was using satellite images in its work. They said they do. However, a debate within the Commission was raised as to whether the Environmental Inspectorate would only be the basis for dealing with the shoreline by someone's statement or could be the basis for something else. Indeed, the Environmental Inspectorate has a work plan on this issue. Satellite images shall be viewed and inspectors shall identify areas specifically examined and monitored in the work plan and shall indicate the places where the change is to be made. One point was the question of how the difference between illegal closure and prevention can be identified. The answer is that one is total closure, but one is blocked by, for example, a barbed wire or an electric shepherd that can be crossed or climbed through. The Committee on the Environment decided to send a draft of 771 on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu and to close the first reading. It was decided by consensus. In addition, it was proposed to set a deadline of 17 December at 5.15 p.m. for amendments to the draft. This was also done by the Committee on the Environment in a consensual manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U214	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallemets, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U215	Thank you. Dear waitress, I'm still fascinated by the question of sanctioning. While fines are applied to certain wrongdoings, can you answer whether this law also provides for the removal of an illegal installation or a fine, but this facility still remains?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U216	Thank you. As I mentioned in the report, the purpose of the amendment is that the shoreline must be free. If administrative proceedings are opened and the landowner does not open the shoreline by the deadline laid down in the precept, the Environmental Inspectorate will hire the builders to demolish the obstacle there.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U217	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Rainer Vakra! Is there a desire to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. The Commission's proposal is that the first reading of draft 771 should be completed. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at 5.15 p.m. on 17 December.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U218	First reading of the draft National Defence Act 772 initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Please report to Secretary of Defense Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U219	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic has submitted a draft National Defence Act to the Riigikogu. Its main objective is to modernise the governance of national defence to ensure our preparedness and effective response to today's security threats. The draft National Defence Act merges, in a renewed form, currently as separate laws, the Peace Age National Defence Act, the War Age National Defence Act and the International Military Cooperation Act. Over a hundred people from relevant authorities and organisations participated in the drafting of the draft for more than three years. The draft National Defence Act is based on the principles of the so-called broad concept of national defence set out in the National Defence Strategy adopted in 2011. The draft has taken into account the experience of our own April 2007 crisis, as well as the war in Georgia in 2008 and what has happened in Ukraine in the last year, and our membership of NATO has been taken more into account. Important changes based on lessons learned are as follows: Firstly, the draft provides the foundations for a clear and effective management of national defence. Among other things, the draft provides for government-centred governance of national defence. The role of the Prime Minister, the Government and the State Chancellery will be strengthened more than ever. In addition, procedures for replacing national leaders will be made more flexible in order to ensure effective governance in a situation where the country's political leadership is being attacked. Secondly, the draft provides the basis for a flexible response to today's security threats. This will be done, inter alia, by organising planning, establishing a legal basis for ensuring the unity of national defence and planning a cross-sectoral response to threats. It also provides a basis for determining the national defence tasks of the institutions concerned and will therefore increase the involvement of all ministries and governments in the defence of the state. In order to ensure a better responsiveness of the country, the possibility of establishing a high level of protection in the country is created in order to bring all relevant authorities and persons into increased readiness and to redistribute the resources and resources necessary for national defence. A new type of duty will also be created in institutions with national defence functions. It will also ensure that national defence functions are carried out in times of threat to the country. In addition, the use of the Reserve Army will be made more flexible. To this end, the concept and nature of mobilisation will be clarified, the regulation of defence forces will be made more flexible in the organisation of time, reserve and replacement services, and new opportunities will be created to organise additional training gatherings which will enable the reserve armies to be assembled quickly. The National Defence Act brings together existing regulations on defence objects, objects with a high risk of attack, and objects that are vital to the state. In this way, the protection of all objects essential for national security is ensured on a uniform basis. The draft National Defence Act complements the Defence Union Act, allowing the Defence League to contribute more flexibly to the protection of the Estonian state and to regulate the governance of the Defence Union during the wartime. In addition, the rights and obligations of foreign armed forces supporting Estonia will be clarified during the military operation on Estonian territory. The use of the Defence Forces will also be made more flexible in international military operations, which will speed up Estonia's contribution to resolving international crises. In addition, a clear basis for using the Defence Forces to evacuate those in distress within the meaning of the consular law will be established. Adopting the bill as a law does not mean that all defence problems will then be solved. During the drafting of the proposal, it became clear that a number of areas still require in-depth analysis and further regulation. For example, there is a need to regulate how criminal and misdemeanour proceedings and prosecutions take place during wartime, and there are a number of other issues. The bill before you also supplements the Health Services Organisation Act with the provisions on the operation of wartime medicine. The development of these regulations was preceded by the years of work of the Wartime Medical Task Force. I am convinced that the operation of other areas in times of war and the development of sectoral legislation, if necessary, must be looked at in the same way. As has been said, the drafting process has been going on for more than three years. I hope that this Riigikogu will find an opportunity to process it thoroughly and adopt it as a law. Given the security situation, it is crucial to adopt the law quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U220	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Lauri Laasi!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U221	Thank you. Dear Minister, You mentioned in the introduction that the procedure for sending Estonian Defence Forces to mission areas will change. I would like to know what this time will become and what the role of the Riigikogu will become within this regime.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U222	Thank you. The Riigikogu gives a mandate to use the Defence Forces on foreign missions, based on the current International Military Cooperation Act. Since we joined NATO, we have changed these regulations somewhat. For example, we already consider, with a 'preventive mandate', to be covered by those operations that are directly due to our membership of the collective defence organisation. In other words, by ratifying the Washington Treaty, or NATO base agreement, here in the Riigikogu, we gave the Estonian Defence Forces the so-called proactive mandate to participate in collective defence operations under Article 5 of the NATO Treaty. We have already changed the regulations concerning the Estonian Defence Forces units participating in the international rapid reaction forces, for example, the NATO Rapid Response Force NRF or the European Union Battle Groups. In fact, the National Defence Act creates a logical end to this regulation. By giving a mandate to participate in the international rapid reaction forces of the Estonian Defence Forces during the so-called readiness period, the Riigikogu also proactively accepts the participation of these units, in the event that these rapid reaction forces should be seconded to an international military operation by decision of the relevant organisation. In addition, at the beginning of this year, the Riigikogu had to deal very quickly with the draft, which gave the mandate for the deployment of the Estonian Defence Forces to the Central African Republic. Given the possibility that any international crisis may quickly escalate at any time in the future and, for example, the European Union or NATO may be forced to quickly deploy international forces to regulate the crisis, the Estonian Parliament will be given the opportunity to pre-emptively determine the threshold for defence forces who can be used for the first time in an international military operation led by the European Union, NATO or NATO Member State, with the clause that, if this mission is to be extended, a 'normal' draft must already come to Parliament. So, basically, this is a logical completion of a process that has already begun before.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U223	Thank you. Please, Ene Ergma!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U224	Thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. I have a question about § 31. The paragraph reads: 'The participation of the Defence Forces in an international military exercise is decided by the Minister responsible for the organisation of national defence. ' Can there be more than one of these ministers?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U225	Thank you. This formation stems directly from the Act of the Government of the Republic, which was recently amended. The amended Government Act is known to allow two or more ministers to be appointed in one ministry. Therefore, sectoral legislation often contains one or another rule of delegation, which is intended specifically for the Minister responsible for the sector. For example, the draft implementing provisions for amending the Health Services Organisation Act include the Minister responsible for this area. In the past, there would have been a Minister of Social Affairs mentioned here, but, for example, in the current government, the Ministry of Social Affairs has a Minister for Social Protection and a Minister for Health and Labour, and in the future government this membership may be different again. This is what the formation of the 'Minister in charge of the field' means.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U226	Thank you. Please, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U227	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! You said it was a bill for three years. I was a little surprised because I have realised that this bill has suddenly become a matter of urgency because of the situation, and that is why we are processing it quite intensively. But there is a completely excluded part of the forced charges that is very serious about society in a crisis situation, because, in addition to fulfilling the duty of national defence, we must also begin to give up our things: cars, fuel, whatever. When's the plan to get to that? To be honest, it is not remembered that in 23 years of independence in Estonia, no one would have dared to put the subject of requisitions on the table at law level.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U228	Thank you. This is a regulation that is quite restrictive of rights, which is certainly legally and probably also politically difficult to impose. As you rightly pointed out, this is one of the important laws that must be developed after the adoption of the National Defence Act. I hope that the next Parliament will also adopt it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U229	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallemets!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U230	Minister, thank you very much. You must be commended that the bill has finally been completed and the presentation is ripe. As a new member of the Defence League, I have an interest in § 112, Amendment of the Code of Conduct, which provides for the involvement of the Defence Forces and the Defence League in ensuring the protection of public order. It is always important for laws to be implemented. It is foreseen that only a trained Defence Forcesman or an active member of the Defence League will be involved. What are currently plans to improve training for members of the Defence Forces and the Defence League over the next year or years? Do these plans even exist?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U231	Thank you. Those plans are definitely there. But this question is very much out of the scope of this law. Certainly, the possibility of involving the Defence Forces and the Defence League in the protection of public order is also important in a situation where the black and white structure for peace and war time does not really apply and where crises or conflicts can have a hybrid character. At the same time, it is important that these activities, which require an 'internal defence response', still be managed by police forces, rather than using defence or armed structures on an easy hand. This training is certainly important for those members of the Defence Forces and the Defence League who are legally able to be involved in the protection of public order.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U232	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U233	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question is about § 134 of the draft law, which talks about the Act of the Government of the Republic and the swearing of ministers and government. § 91 of the Constitution makes it very clear that the government takes an oath of office before the Riigikogu, but this bill provides for regulation that, in urgent cases, the Government of the Republic or the Minister may take an oath of office before the President of the Riigikogu, not the Riigikogu. Don't you think there's a contradiction with the Constitution? Should the Constitution be amended or revised?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U234	If the National Defence Committee considers that this may be a breach of the Constitution or a regulation which does not comply with the Constitution, then I hope that the Riigikogu will find an opportunity to correct it during the procedure. It is true that this issue was also discussed in the context of another section of the draft law. In its current form, the Constitution may not be prepared in the best way for an attack on the political leadership of the country. For example, if the President proves unable to perform his duties, only the President of the Riigikogu can be replaced, which may be problematic in a situation where both the President and the Chairman of the Riigikogu are at the same time unable to perform their duties. It is certainly not possible to change the constitution quickly, and it is probably not reasonable to take an easy hand, but we should try to find opportunities that are compatible with the current constitution that can fill these very serious gaps.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U235	Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U236	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of Defense! One of the previous questions you answered was that every particular mission no longer comes to the Riigikogu's decision-making process, and you brought the parallel that at the beginning of the year, the Central African Republic was quickly sent. At the same time, it seems to me that pursuant to § 34 of this bill, the sending of a Central African mission should also have been decided in the Riigikogu, as the Riigikogu should appoint a Member State whose rapid reaction forces have a Defence Forces unit in place. At the same time, paragraph 2 says that the Riigikogu has no role to play if the Defence Forces go to an operation resulting from a ratified foreign treaty. Can you give an example of a recent mission in which the Riigikogu will no longer have a role to play, because this operation is the result of a ratified foreign agreement?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U237	Thank you. There were a number of questions on one issue together. Indeed, § 34 states that the Riigikogu decides on the use of the Defence Forces in the composition of the Rapid Response Forces before the deployment of the Defence Forces unit and each year the limit of the number of members of the Defence Forces who may participate in the first international military operation under the direction of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation or its Member State, the European Union or the United Nations. This is the regulation that applies to the Central African Republic operation. This operation was a European Union mission, where, yes, France was the so-called 'framework country'. This is one of the cases where there could be a preventive limit in the future. If, for some reason, the Government of the Republic should wish to contribute more than this limit, then it is inevitably necessary to come before Parliament. As regards the obligation arising from the ratification of the foreign treaty, the foreign agreement laying down the principle of collective self-defence is, for example, the same North Atlantic agreement, or the Washington Agreement, which states in Article 5 that in the event of external aggression, all Member States will protect each other jointly. By ratifying the North Atlantic Treaty, we have committed ourselves to participating in joint defence operations. The implementation of Article 5 will be decided by the North Atlantic Council in a consensual manner, i.e. with the participation and agreement of the representative of Estonia. When Article 5 has been applied for the protection of a Member State, the use of the Estonian Defence Forces in this collective defence operation is no longer required to contact the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U238	Kalev Kallemets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U239	Minister, thank you very much. This question, too, is about the same subject as my previous question. Paragraph 112 of the draft law states that § 161 of the Law Enforcement Act, paragraph 4 of which states that the Defence Forces and the Defence League shall be involved in the performance of the tasks referred to in that section, i.e. the protection of public order, for a maximum period of 30 days from the date of the decision. How is this point justified? Maybe there's a case we can't predict right now for more than 30 days. The following sentence states very categorically that the Government of the Republic may not decide, in the case provided for in this paragraph, to re-engage the Defence Forces or the Defence League in the same case. It seems very categorical.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U240	If you want to know the history of the paragraph and the justification that the officials of the Ministry or the draft developers had in mind, judging that the right is precisely 30 days, not for example 40 or 20 days, then I will try to find out and communicate it to you before the second reading. It is clear that the involvement of armed structures with a defence mission in public order must be an extraordinary procedure, not a normal one. It is therefore certainly reasonable to impose a certain threshold here so that this decision is not made on an easy hand. At the same time, it should not be turned into a 'routine' either. There are certain grounds for any restrictions on the length of time the Defence Forces or the Defence League may be involved in activities of a police nature.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U241	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U242	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Minister, thank you very much. I will continue with my question of a possible contradiction with the Constitution concerning the oath of government and ministers. You said you hoped that the Commission would consider this issue. I too hope so, and I believe that the Committee on National Defence could turn to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for a position. However, the Chancellor of Justice also attends the meetings of the Government of the Republic. Has he not drawn attention to a possible contradiction with the Constitution in the round of coordination or in the Government of the Republic? What is your position as minister, do you see here a contradiction with the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U243	I'm sure this is a border case. The Constitution does not directly describe how the President of the Riigikogu could take an oath of office on behalf of the Riigikogu. But, as I said, when drafting and adopting the Constitution, it was probably not possible to foresee situations where the state's continuity of action could be called into question by the attack on the political leadership of the country. At the same time, looking at the wars and crises of the last decade in Europe and its immediate vicinity, it would be possible to rule out or not be prepared to be dangerous and even irresponsible. Of course, the Constitution takes precedence over other laws and must be respected. There is certainly a need to find a constitutional way to ensure that a country can continue to function during a crisis or war, so that crisis management or military management can take place in a situation where one of the state's top executives or top officials is not able to carry out their duties for any reason. The draft law passed the round of coordination, received the approval of the government and reached the Riigikogu in the form it is before you. The so-called pen is now in the hands of the Riigikogu. Of course, after the adoption of the law, the President will also have the opportunity to assess whether all the provisions are compatible with the Constitution. My aim, as Minister of Defence and also the government, is to adopt a law which the President declares and which is in line with the Constitution's provision and thought. This could be a common goal for all of us.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U244	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U245	Thank you, Vice-President of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. I'll ask you the same thing. This oath takes place in urgent circumstances and the oath is given only to the President of the Riigikogu. If such a thing comes to the agenda at all, and if it is not contrary to the Constitution, then there should certainly be more of them, for example, a vice-chairman should be included among them. The chairman can also be easily eliminated. If this amendment enters the Government of the Republic Act, then next summer, when the Riigikogu is on summer vacation, we may one day discover that Nestor and Mikser get together and take an oath. Is that smart? It doesn't just concern the wartime national defence law. If the law of the Government of the Republic is amended, this amendment will not apply only during wartime, it will apply every day. Next year, someone may one day come here before Nestor, if Nestor is then the chairman of the Riigikogu, and take an oath. That's what the law allows.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U246	No, the law certainly does not allow Nestor and Mikser to meet and mutually appoint each other Minister or President. This is a special regulation which applies in exceptional circumstances. The need to appoint a new minister still arises where the former minister is, for whatever reason, unable to perform his duties.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U247	Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U248	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Secretary of Defense! My question is about the Defence Forces missions. Is there anything left to do to change that order? As far as I know, everything has worked so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U249	Thank you. There are certainly regulations that need to be improved or improved. So far, deployment has taken place on the basis of the current International Military Cooperation Act, and this has certainly been a restrictive circumstance in some situations. We know that the Riigikogu works according to its Home and Working Procedures Act. Between sessions there is a requirement for an increased quorum in the Riigikogu session. However, crises may also arise between the regular sessions of the Riigikogu and it may be quite difficult to obtain a mandate from Parliament quickly, even if Parliament has a desire to do so. If the current regulation remains in force, it may happen that Estonia will not participate in any international military operation, although the ability and willingness to participate are there, or will not be allowed to participate until Parliament has been able to gather. However, in principle, the proposed new regulation is that Parliament may or may not grant the preventive limit for an operation led by the European Union, NATO or its Member State. If the Riigikogu has not proactively given a mandate to participate in any such operation, the limit has not been established, then even after the new law has been in force, the government must come to the Riigikogu to ask for a mandate for a specific mission, indicating the region, the limit number of defence forces and the duration of the operation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U250	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U251	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of Defense! It is great that we extend the possibilities of the Prime Minister, the Government of the Republic and the State Chancellery and increase their role in times of crisis. I will see that the Government of the Republic forms a Security Commission, which it itself approves. My question is about the National Defence Committee, which works in the Riigikogu. What role do you see in her during the crisis?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U252	One of the main points of the National Defence Act is that the governance of the state during both war and peacetimes should be as uniform as possible, so that the sector's responsibility in times of war and peace, as well as in periods of heightened readiness, should be, wherever possible, the same and the same in order to minimise exceptions. It ensures clarity and logic of governance and allows for a flexible and gradual improvement of the country's preparedness by moving from peaceful to crisis-time operation. In this way, too, the government can decide to what extent it can reallocate state resources, for example, to what extent it organises additional training gatherings in order to be better prepared, even in times of war, when the crisis escalates. This flexibility certainly makes sense. However, the power and areas of activity of the National Defence Committee and the entire Parliament will not change significantly compared to the laws in force so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U253	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U254	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. I ask you directly: if there is such an important amendment to the Government of the Republic Act, will this be the case during peacetime?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U255	I'm sorry! What change and what paragraph?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U256	Please ask again!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U257	If such a substantial amendment is introduced to the Government of the Republic Act that an oath may be made to the President of the Riigikogu, will this also apply during peacetime?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U258	Paragraph 134 states that if there are no sittings of the Riigikogu, in urgent cases the Government of the Republic or the Minister may take office by taking an oath of office to the President of the Riigikogu. [[Summing. The manager's ringing the bell.]] Yes, this version provides that in urgent cases this may be the case if Riigikogu meetings are not held, which means that the Riigikogu cannot meet at that time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U259	Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U260	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. But why are we even sitting here? Let's all go home peacefully. You're taking away our assignments, saying we can't do the job. You were sitting here with us before. Why does the Riigikogu even need one?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U261	Thank you. No, I'm certainly not saying you can't do the job. But it is up to the Riigikogu to process draft laws that the government has passed on and to make changes to them if necessary. If the Riigikogu adopts this law, it will apply if the Riigikogu does not do so, then it will not apply. So it's really up to you to decide how much power you want to give to the government or how much power you want to hold on to. At the same time, it is clear that crises and wars in today's world have, in fact, been through history, exceptional situations which require changes to ordinary decision-making forms and procedures and restrictions on certain rights. It is certainly Parliament's place to decide to what extent such restrictions are justified and compatible with the Constitution. At the same time, it must be borne in mind that Parliament's additional and extraordinary sittings are subject to a higher quorum and, unlike the government, Parliament does not go together on all working days during the year, but has a very long intersessional period in which its ability to meet quickly may be limited. Since we cannot include regulation in the law that an armed attack on the Republic of Estonia can only occur during sessions of the Riigikogu, it is necessary to look for ways in which the state can function and make the necessary decisions even if the parliament is not able to gather for some reason and if, for example, the President or the Prime Minister is unable to perform his duties. These regulations must certainly be considered with great care. We must be sure that we do not go fishing for cranes with an ax, that we do not impose restrictions on fundamental rights on too light hands, for example, and that we do not simply take away Parliament's powers too easily. Certainly this Parliament is a place where these exceptions must be considered very thoroughly. The government has come before the Riigikogu with this bill and its aim is certainly not to take as much power away from the Riigikogu as possible and concentrate it in the hands of the government or the Prime Minister. Our aim is to ensure that the state is able to function and defend itself in the context of a hybrid war and in the event of a direct military attack and to mobilise the necessary resources. It is certainly a complex and sensitive issue, but it is absolutely necessary to deal with it if we foresee that a situation may arise in Estonia where we are forced to defend ourselves against an external military threat.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U262	Cameron Maruse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U263	Thank you! Mr. Minister! The general request for this draft is understandable and, in principle, there is nothing against the general request. But I read, for example, § 10 'Limiting the fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals during heightened defence, martial law, mobilisation and demobileisation'. It provides for restrictive measures, which may be imposed by an administrative act. Are you quite sure that this restriction of fundamental rights and freedoms to an administrative act is compatible with the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U264	The round of co-ordination of the draft act was not found to be in direct conflict with the Constitution. But I'm sure it's a pretty close-cut case again. It is clear that there is a need to be extremely careful when it comes to restricting the freedoms and rights of individuals. At the same time, it is clear that in an open world, in a situation where the Estonian state defends itself on the basis of the principle of the reserve army and people can move freely across the borders of the Estonian state, restrictions on their rights and freedoms may be justified. How much of this regulation should be brought to the level of the law is again a possible subject of parliamentary debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U265	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U266	Thank you. You answered a number of questions in such a way that this law gives the state the opportunity to defend itself even under the conditions of a possible hybrid war and therefore the role of the Riigikogu must be reduced. I'm coming back to foreign missions. Basically, they're not about our own defense. The Riigikogu will be deprived of its role in setting up the rapid reaction forces of the European Union and the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation. These missions, however, will not be launched faster than within a few weeks. The Estonian Riigikogu will certainly be able to meet during this period. Don't you think you're just doing some extra work for us? We will be issuing mission mandates at the beginning of the year, although these missions will not take place in the course of the year. We're just taking empty decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U267	Thank you. It's basically possible. I come to the assumption in the introduction to your question that we want to take power away from the Riigikogu. That is certainly not what we want, and I hope it is not what you want. We actually want the Estonian state to be able to react, if necessary, within hours, not weeks, in a situation where the pre-warning period of crises can be measurable in hours, not in weeks. As far as preventive mandates are concerned, when we are talking, for example, about the European Union's battle groups, these are rapid reaction teams, the deployment of which takes place within a few days, as well as the actual deployment to the mission area. The Riigikogu's ability to meet in two weeks may in certain circumstances be sufficient time, perhaps not in certain circumstances. This time may not be enough to decide, for example, to deploy a European Union Battlegroup in the mission area. The same applies to the NRF of the NATO Rapid Response Force, but also, for example, to the rapid reaction force created jointly by eight NATO Member States, in which Estonia has expressed its wish to participate in the future. So, certainly, Parliament's ability to meet relatively quickly during intersessions may not be enough. Another thing is that if Parliament gives a mandate to the Estonian Defence Forces unit to participate in the rapid reaction forces during the preparation period, the mandate will also cover the possible participation in an external operation, if this rapid reaction force is activated and deployed to the mission area, there will certainly not be any additional work for Parliament. Even so far, there has been an understanding that if the European Union has created a concept of battle groups for rapid response capability, these units are intended to be used and if we deploy Estonian Defence Forces units to participate in them, we will assume the responsibility that, if we activate the rapid response force, the unit that we send will go to the mission area. It is certainly Parliament's power to give such a proactive mandate, while at the same time it is difficult to foresee, for example, an exact mission area in which an entity in readiness may be used.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U268	Lauri Laasi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U269	Thank you. I have the impression that our partners in NATO, just on the European side, all the major military forces have been conservative in sending their soldiers to the mission area. Estonia has usually been among the first and left among the last. Can you give examples of how sending units to the mission area in other NATO countries is organised? Is there a similar effect of the pig and bag you have proposed, or is there still a bearing role for Parliament to decide whether or not to send a unit to the mission area?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U270	This has been resolved in NATO Member States in quite different ways, and so in the European Union, when we are talking, for example, about battle groups in the European Union. There are also a number of countries in NATO, it can be said that these are countries that are at war on the basis of the expedition corps, which usually use a government-centred approach. In quite a number of NATO Member States, the decision to participate in foreign missions falls within the competence of the executive, and Parliament does not have any active role there. However, there are countries in which the role of Parliament is very large, including those in which Parliament, indeed, imposes so-called restrictions and conditions on the participating forces. Indeed, Estonia has so far tried to avoid additional restrictions and conditions, understanding that they may hinder the targeted use of the unit being deployed. We have also based ourselves on the understanding that Estonian Defence Forces units usually participate in the mission as part of a larger unit of a leading state, and that if the Estonian unit has its limitations, the unit commander may be prevented from managing this unit sensibly. Contrary to what was planned, such restrictions may also pose a threat to the lives and health of the armed forces.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U271	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I request the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the National Defence Commission Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U272	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We need to process the draft National Defence Act with the knowledge that it may have to be implemented in real defence. Russia's aggression against Ukraine, but other events in the world have shown that the international security situation has changed irreversibly. New threats also require a more up-to-date approach in national defence and legislation. As the Minister of Defence has already mentioned, the National Defence Act will replace the existing law on peacetime defence, wartime national defence law and international law on military cooperation. The time of war and peace can no longer be clearly and unambiguously distinguished, there must be no gaps in management, and the threats to Estonia are much more diverse than pure military attacks. It is therefore no longer appropriate to provide for the organisation of peace and wartime national defence in two laws in today's security space and to allow for a swift and flexible response to external security threats. In addition, Estonia's protection is not effective enough without foreign partners, so it is appropriate to regulate international military cooperation in the same law. Nor has the current laws taken into account the principle of a broad concept of national defence. The National Defence Act makes national defence military activities central to the state's activities, and according to the law, every ministry's responsibility for defending the state increases. We need to get rid of the mentality that war is something that only concerns the Ministry of Defence's administration and power structures. The state must be able to operate in a comprehensive manner and continue to provide public services in crisis and war situations. Every Estonian citizen must also be informed of what the state expects of him and what he can do to protect his loved ones, his home and his country in crisis and war situations. National flexibility in responding to threats will also be ensured through the development of a new system of mobilisation and levels of defence readiness. According to the draft, mobilisation will only be imposed on the Defence Forces, and mobilisation will not depend on whether or not a state of war has been declared in the country. In the rest of the country, increased preparedness will be put in place, where necessary, in order, for example, to allow for a more flexible redistribution of state assets and for people to be obliged to work. The chapter of international military cooperation specifies the provisions governing the stay and use of force of foreign armed forces in Estonia in comparison with the law in force. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft on 18 November. The draft was presented to the members of the Commission by the Minister of Defence and the Commander of the Defence Forces. The meeting discussed, inter alia, whether the draft, or specifically in Chapter 2 thereof, should deal with the National Defence Council insofar as it is a body providing advice to the President and not a body contributing to national defence planning. The service guarantees of the Defence Forces in the event of mobilization were also at issue: whether and to what extent the State is likely to be able to guarantee the guarantees provided under normal circumstances after the end of the mobilisation. Discussions on these and other issues in the Commission will certainly continue. The National Defence Committee proposes that the first reading of the draft be completed and that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 17 December. Finally, I support the Minister of Defence a little. In the current security situation, it is important that the new National Defence Act is adopted by this Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U273	Dear waitress, thank you. There are no questions for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U274	Where's Mr. Secretary of Defense?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U275	They want to negotiate. I ask the Riigikogu speech chair Aivar Riisalu! Certainly, many fellow workers wonder how this is possible. This is possible under our Home and Working Procedures Act. In fact, a letter has been received by the Board of the Riigikogu saying that the position of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union will be presented in the debate on the draft National Defence Act 772 Aivar Riisalu, member of the Riigikogu. The letter has been signed by the Chairman of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union and the name of the contact person is included in the letter, as it should be. Please, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U276	Thank you, good Deputy Speaker of the Riigikogu, for your heartfelt thoroughness! The National Defence Act is a long-awaited law. All previous speakers have marked it, which is why we are now getting a little faster with this law than we might want to. I was very surprised by the views of the Minister of Defence that the drafting of this bill began three years ago. It could really be that way. I can't tell you when this process started, but I know the National Defence Committee has been looking forward to this bill, and this spring it became clear that this bill will reach us. It must be acknowledged that this draft deals with a large number of important issues that need to be resolved. One of the most positive things I will point out is that implementation of volunteers in national defence will be resolved. This concerns, above all, a rather significant part of Estonian society, people who have joined the Defence League and are not military. The law did not provide that the State could consider them as essentially contributing to national defence. This problem has now been resolved and therefore Estonia has already won the first battle with a potential opponent. There is nothing greater than the will of the volunteers. If the Estonian state appreciates and recognizes this and gives volunteers the opportunity to participate in national defence during a crisis situation and a war situation, then I think it is a great victory. Years have been discussing how to apply this desire to participate. The draft National Defence Act has tried to solve very complex problems. As a result, I would argue that the discussion that broke out in this Chamber today, and which is actually going on, is difficult. Once again, I want to protect the founders of the law. We must somehow describe the same replacement system, for example, in the law. But close your eyes and imagine yourself in a war situation where battles take place, there are a lot of refugees rolling around, and there is actually a pretty good chaos. How can this situation and theory be combined? This bill is trying to do that. We can go very deep in certain details, but we can't really find a good solution. Because we cannot assemble these two things together: our good intention to be effective and actual chaos. It's always a very complicated task. I fear that such a story may happen that, in view of all these disputes, the current composition of the Riigikogu will not come to an end by making this law. When the central council of the Defence League began a debate on this bill, it was very passionate. The citizens' initiative is trying to say that the law is a cause for concern and so on, which is not true. But what I want to say is that Parliament should follow the good legislative process. The National Defence Act concerns all defence citizens who should, as if, have the right to express their views in the draft law procedure. If the opinions of all these citizens are finally coming in, or if the citizens are showing activity in the process of dealing with this draft, I am afraid... I'll take three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U277	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U278	... that in this situation we may be going through a very serious debate and may just be short of time. I'm afraid of it, but at the same time, I think that the law is so important that it can't be done sluggishly. This is for the simple reason that this law imposes considerable restrictions on people. This is particularly the case for defence citizens, but the crisis affects everyone, the war also affects everyone. I therefore believe that this is one of the most serious legislative proposals of recent times. Whether we like it or not, real warfare has come closer to us than ever before, if I reject World War II, which is several decades ago. The war has come closer to us than ever before, and thinking about it and dealing with it is vitally important. On behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, I assure you that we will contribute in every way to the effective processing of this bill. We are of the opinion that this is a crucial law for Estonia, which ensures that we will not be stopped during an increasingly threatening crisis, that the state will be governed and that the citizens will know how to behave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U279	Thank you. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U280	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The year 2014 was a year of war in Europe. It is true that this has taken place and is happening far enough away from us, but it is also true that Ukraine's party to the aggression is our neighbour Russia, with which we still do not have a border agreement de iure. Thus, the security situation is absolutely different from that at the beginning of the drafting of the draft law in 2011. This does not mean, however, that the adoption of the National Defence Act can wait another three years, on the contrary. The Minister of Defence rightly said that this is a draft that has taken into account our own April 2007 crisis, 2008 in Georgia and what is currently happening in Ukraine. At the same time, our membership of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO) is more taken into account in the draft law. It is therefore an extremely necessary bill that can be used as a manual in real life as soon as we have given a green light to this law in this Chamber. It is important to point out that the draft is based on the principles of a broad approach to national defence established in the national defence strategy that was viable three years ago. The important thing is that it is written out how exactly Estonian defence works in a crisis situation. Key words, as we heard and read, are'speed' and 'efficiency'. The National Defence Act regulates threats more widely; it does not mean a military attack. The answer to this question is whether only the Defence Forces must prepare for defence. No, it must be done by all the public authorities, to be honest, the whole of society. At the same time, national defence is managed by the Prime Minister and the Government of the Republic in peace and war times, according to the draft law. Of course, one can ask rhetorically, as many colleagues here bombarded the Minister of Defence with questions, whether the role of the Riigikogu is narrowing. You can calmly say that there are situations where what matters is really speed. Therefore, instead of condemning us, let us note that during peacetime, the government is planning a wide range of defences across ministries and is taking the lead in the event of war. This means that the government will lead the national defence. The Minister of Defence listed how the Estonian state responds flexibly to today's security threats. I'm not gonna say it again. However, it is important to stress that the use of the reserve army is becoming flexible. In the longer term and on all sides, the draft National Defence Act deals with mobilisation. The creation of additional opportunities for additional training gatherings should be recognised. We also welcome the fact that the draft provides for a flexible opportunity for the Defence League to contribute to the protection of the Estonian state. After all, the draft National Defence Act complements the Defence League Act. If you ask whether the draft national defence law at first reading today is ideal, the answer can only be that, of course, it is not. After all, amendments are always welcome in the procedure. However, in order not to ignore the security situation in Europe, the Socialists think it is important that we stop reading the draft first and, more importantly, before we disband on 19 February, we would have adopted this worthy draft as a national defence law. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U281	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Jürgen Ligi, the Chairman of the National Defence Commission, said that the Commission has proposed to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 772 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 17 December. The first reading is closed and the 13th item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U282	Let's move on to item 14. The first reading of the draft law amending the Public Health Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister of Health and Labour Urmas Kruuse!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U283	Very honorable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Guests! I am pleased to present to you the draft law amending the Public Health Act, which was adopted by the Riigikogu on 4 November. This draft provides the legal basis for establishing and maintaining a cancer screening register as a national health database. The draft establishes the purpose of the register, the data to be collected, the data providers and the data controller. The draft also empowers the Government of the Republic to establish a statute for the Cancer Screening Registry. The purpose of the register is to collect and analyse data from the cancer screening programme organised by the target population identified in the national health policy, initially for breast cancer and cervical cancer, and subsequently for other sites if necessary. The aim is also to facilitate the transmission of invitations to participate in screening in order to ensure the use of all means of communication. It is possible to analyse and regularly assess the effectiveness and quality of the screening programme on the basis of the data collected in the register. Reports of the results of the analysis shall be made available to the public. The register is intended to be established as a population-based national register, the processor of which is the National Institute for Health Development. In this register, data are provided by all healthcare providers carrying out research activities through the Health Information System, who have signed a contract for the provision of the screening programme with the Estonian Health Insurance Fund in the respective year. The establishment of the registry information system is financed by the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) with EUR 87240 plus an own contribution. In the future, expenditure relating to the management of the register will be covered by the state budget. To sum up, this is a draft that helps to better plan screening, should ensure better participation in screening among the target population and aims at better cancer prevention and early detection of the disease. Early detection allows timely treatment and better treatment outcomes and improves the quality of life of the individual. The indirect costs of cancer treatment are difficult to predict, but the sooner cancer is detected, the lower the costs of treatment. The total cost of health care at the Estonian Health Insurance Fund is also reduced due to avoidable treatment. In the longer term, regular screening will result in reduced mortality in breast and cervical cancer. Honourable Riigikogu, I would certainly ask for this bill to be processed and passed as a law!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U284	Minister, thank you. There are no questions. Aare Heinvee, member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu Chair, for a presentation!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U285	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee discussed a draft law amending the Public Health Act in 756 s. a on 17 November 2008. All members of the Commission took part. The draft was presented by Urmas Kruuse, Minister of Health and Labour, and the questions were answered by Piret Verus of the Institute for Health Development and Mari Asser of the Estonian E-Health Foundation. The Minister gave a thorough overview of the draft. In the ensuing debate, it was asked why the screening registers must be laid down by law, whether a regulation is not sufficient. It was replied that the legal basis for the establishment of all national databases must be established by law. The established cancer screening registry is linked to personal and health data, which cannot be handled solely by specialists. Implementing acts will be established in the future by a regulation of the Government of the Republic. The following questions concerned the target population of screening studies, the age of the population involved and the current activity of participation in the studies. The possibility of screening prostate cancer was also asked. The reply stated that according to a pan-European study, the PSA test for prostate status cannot be considered to be tumour-specific because the test produces many false positive results. Therefore, reliable screening studies cannot yet be carried out. Now I am talking about procedural decisions. Firstly, it was decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 3 December 2014. Secondly, it was decided to propose the termination of the first reading. Thirdly, it was decided to set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 4 p.m. on 5 December. Fourthly, it was decided to appoint Aare Heinvee as rapporteur for the Commission. The decisions were consensual.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U286	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups of the Riigikogu wish to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. I will set the deadline for the submission of the draft 756 amendments at 4 p.m. on 5 December. The first reading of the draft has been completed and the 14th agenda item has also been dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U287	Let's move on to item 15. The first reading of the draft Act on the procurement, handling and transplantation of cells, tissues and organs initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister of Health and Labour Urmas Kruuse!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U288	Honourable President! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased to present to you the draft law on the procurement, handling and transplantation of cells, tissues and organs, which was adopted by the Riigikogu on 4 November. The main objective of the draft is to organise the organisation of the procurement, handling and transplantation of cells, tissues and organs in Estonia. The transfer of biological material of human origin to cells, tissues, and organs is the only lifesaving way to treat certain diseases. However, the clinical use of cells, tissues and organs is a medically very complicated and risk-related procedure. Cell, tissue and organ deficits are a global problem in both clinical activity and research. There are also a number of ethical and legal problems in the process of procurement, handling and transplantation of cells, tissues and organs. The current organisation of cell, tissue and organ transplantation in Estonia is characterised by eclecticity, which has caused confusion in practice. Also, at the level of the Act, there is still no precise provision in Estonia as to how the system for the procurement, handling and transplantation of cells, tissues and organs must be organised. In particular, the area of organ transplantation is problematic. Renal transplantation has been carried out in Estonia since 1968. The competence of other organs such as liver, lungs, heart and pancreatic transplantation has only begun to develop in Estonia in the last decade. Since the number of amendments and additions to the law on the procurement, handling and transplantation of cells, tissues and organs exceeded the scope for amending the law, it was appropriate to prepare a new complete text of the law. As a result, the draft clarifies, inter alia, the rights and obligations of the institutions involved in the procurement, handling, transplantation and financing of cells, tissues and organs, the declaration of willingness to be a donor, how a donor with limited working capacity can be obtained, how a waiting page for organ transplantation is kept and under what conditions persons are registered on the waiting page for organ transplantation, how the death of the person who is a donor of cells, tissues or organs can be detected and who can deal with organ transplantation in Estonia. In previous years, the Ministry of Social Affairs has supported the performance of the tasks of the Tartu University Hospital of the Foundation, with several allocations. In the 2015 state budget, EUR 178393 is planned to perform the tasks of the state transplant agency. Expenditure on health care for persons not covered by health insurance, relating to the procurement and handling of organs and haematopoietic stem cells and to treatment resulting from the medical condition resulting from organ removal, shall be covered by the financial envelope for non-insured persons, which is planned for a total amount of EUR 7.2 million in the 2015 budget. To sum up, this is a draft which will help to make organ transplant arrangements more understandable and transparent. I ask the honourable Riigikogu to process this bill and adopt it as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U289	Minister, thank you. There are no questions. I ask Reet Roos, member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U290	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, On Monday 17 November 2014, the Committee on Social Affairs discussed draft law on the procurement, handling and transplantation of cells, tissues and organs 757. In addition to the members of the committee, Urmas Kruuse, Minister of Health and Labour, and Ingrid Ots-Vaik, Head Specialist of the Health Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, were present. The minister briefed on the bill. The purpose of the draft is, as has been said, to organise the procurement, handling and transplantation of cells, tissues and organs. The Commission discussed two main issues. Firstly, organ donation of a incapacitated person was discussed and, secondly, how the new law creates national preconditions for joining international organ exchange organisations. We learned that the draft will bring the situation of a person with reduced capacity into line with the Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine, according to which only renewable cells and tissues can be removed. Compared to the current law, we actually restrict the circle of individuals to whom these renewable cells and tissues can be donated. Recovering cells, we found out, are skin and bone, as well as liver. The individuals to whom they may be donated are brother, sister, child, and biological parent. On the second topic, we learned that the University of Tartu Hospital is negotiating with Scandiatransplant on behalf of the Estonian state and that the accession agreement has probably been concluded in the spring of next year. At the moment, the conclusion of the agreement has mainly resulted from the fact that the Estonian state does not have harmonised procedures with Scandinavian countries; they still need to be developed. The Commission decided unanimously to put the draft on today's agenda and to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 17 December. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-03_U291	Good co-worker, no questions for you either. Now I ask the representatives of the political groups who wish to participate in the negotiations. No calls, no negotiations. As the lead committee is of the opinion, as confirmed by the Social Affairs Committee member Reet Roos, that the first reading should be completed, I will set the deadline for the submission of the 757 amendments at 17.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the 15th item is also closed. Good fellows, thank you. Today's trial is over. Good luck in our work! Closure of the sitting at 6.03 p.m.
