ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Prime Minister and Ministers. Let's start today's briefing. Please, let's do the presence check! 37 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 64 are missing. The following members of government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Regional Minister Siim Valmar Kiisler and Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas. Let's get to the questions. Ladies and gentlemen, we have six questions registered, two additional questions can be asked for each. So we're gonna need quick fingers.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U2	Let us begin with the question of my colleague, Mr Andrus Ansip, by asking Mr Ester Tuiksoo. Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo! What? Three minutes break, please! What happened in there? Doesn't work? Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U3	Thank you very much, Madam President. I don't know why this technical problem came up. Prime Minister, you have recently supported, with your support, the fight of Estonian farmers for more equal conditions of support in the common European market. Thank you, of course, for that. However, the rural development plan is in the final stages and the Ministry of Finance has found that State support should be reduced from 25% to 15% during the current financial period. The Estonian farmers' organisations have expressed deep frustration about this. As Prime Minister, how do you intend to resolve the confrontation between the two ministries?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U4	Thank you. I don't think this is some kind of confrontation between the two ministries. As we know, the first proposal on the budgetary plan provided for a co-financing rate of 25% in the Member States in terms of both the use of cohesion funds and, for example, the use of rural resources. However, the negotiations concluded quite quickly that the European Union should finance 85% of cohesion funds and 15% of Member States' funding. In fact, one of the aims of the so-called "Cohesion Friends" was to ensure that VAT was declared eligible and that the co-financing rate of the Member State was fixed at 15%. We have achieved these goals for Estonia. It was important for us that VAT be eligible and that the European Union co-financing rate is 85%. This gives greater freedom to use the state budget money. For me, however, these objectives were not a priority during the negotiations. The priority was to achieve an increase in the amount of rural development in absolute terms as well as an increase in the volume of direct payments to agriculture. We can now say that we have met these objectives, and we have also achieved other objectives, which were also important. We had 726 million rural development funds in the previous budget plan, now 766 million. Growth is considerable enough. At the same time, the volume of direct payments increased to 503 million, or 1 billion and 7 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U5	Please, Mrs Tuiksoo, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U6	Thank you very much, Madam President. Prime Minister! Can you confirm that your government will not reduce its funding at all, now that the rural development plan is immediately caught between the covers? But if it does, how much could it be in financial terms?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U7	When I answered the previous question, I spoke about negotiations at European Union level. These negotiations were undoubtedly important for Estonia and also successful. We have achieved a 100% increase in the volume of direct payments: there were just over 500 million, now there are over one billion. And we also achieved an increase in the amounts of the RDP. What kind of co-financing by Estonia will be, whether it stays at the level required by the European Union and the European Commission, i.e. the minimum level or exceeds this minimum level as much as allowed, or the level will remain somewhere in the meantime, it is a question of drawing up a national budget strategy, that is the issue of drawing up national budgets. This is not a matter of a partnership agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the European Commission. If this co-financing remains great, it can be discussed thoroughly in the procedure of processing the budget of the honourable Riigikogu, which is considered a priority, whether the priority is teachers' salaries, police salaries, rural development plan amounts or something else. All these questions, I hope, will be discussed by the Riigikogu in the utmost detail.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U8	Please, my colleague, Mrs Tuiksoo, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U9	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! Our neighbours, known to be Latvians, will find an opportunity in the coming financial period to support their agricultural sector to the maximum extent allowed. In Finland, 70% of the support is spoken of. Why does the Estonian government support our agricultural sector only to a minimum in recent years? Does the Minister for Agriculture not adequately explain the needs of his sector at government meetings?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U10	The state contribution also depends on the overall level of costs and overall levels of subsidies. It is a question of prioritising whether money goes into child support, in the money of hobby groups or in support of agriculture. This is a matter of free choice for the Riigikogu. I believe that the sums coming from the European Union for agriculture have increased very quickly. We are still not satisfied with the level we have achieved. But if the increase is from 500 million to one billion, no one has any reason to say, even with the most malicious interpretation, that we have done worse than we have done so far. Gone is actually good. Wanting to get even more money is a perfectly understandable and natural desire. It is now a matter of considering who will be able to find even more resources from the state budget in order to provide even better funding for one area of life. To me, the state is whole. We have pensioners, we have people with disabilities, we have teachers, we have police officers. An optimal solution must be found that takes into account the real opportunities of our country and the needs of all areas of life.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U11	Now two issues registered on the spot. Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U12	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! The rural development plan is almost complete. Do you think we could have a Ministry of Rural Affairs instead of the Ministry of Agriculture, which maybe protects the interests of rural people in a much wider way? After all, agriculture is just one aspect of rural life. What do you think of this idea? We've been through this before, so maybe we could develop it and move on?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U13	Thank you. I don't really like the idea of renaming ministries. The Ministry of Agriculture really deals primarily with agriculture. Rural life is a much broader concept and I do not think that cultural life developed on land should be managed by a separate ministry or that the social sector in rural areas is separated from social problems in cities. Dealing with agriculture, managing agriculture is the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture. I would stick to the fact that I would still define this area of activity with a particular industry. I don't think it's right for one ministry to do everything in health care, education, internal security by location. Perhaps there is an idea in your proposal, it needs to be discussed thoroughly and, if there are enough supporters, why not. But that's what some next government is gonna do.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U14	The last issue registered on the ground, Mr Lenk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U15	Thank you. Prime Minister! As I understand it, there is one final briefing today if we can ask you questions in this free conversation and discuss matters with you. I'm glad you're still in good shape. Everything has gone better than I expected. In conclusion, I ask such a question. If you look back at your ten-year period of government, the Estonian villages have run dry, the shops have been shut down and there are not many schools left in the country, what grades would you give to your agricultural policy now? Is that a grade of 2, 3, 4 or 5?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U16	Indeed, I intend to submit a resignation request to the President of the Republic on 4 March. But that doesn't mean that today is the last time I have to stand in front of you in Question Time. It will take some time to form a new government, and we will probably have a pleasant opportunity to communicate with each other in this format several more times. These Estonian villages have not run dry at all. If this claim were true, it would be insane in Finland, Sweden or Denmark. As we know, 68% of the inhabitants live in Estonia, 84% in Finland, 85% in Sweden, 86% in Denmark. So the picture is rather sadder with our Baltic neighbours than it is in Estonia. Unfortunately, we all have to admit that urbanization is continuing. Agriculture has perhaps become a very competitive industry in Estonia even as a surprise to some. I don't think we should be surprised. Our current level of agricultural production is quite different than it was 25 years ago or even more ago when we were truly proud of our agriculture. At present, the yield per hectare of winter wheat is 9.6 tonnes and is not at all comparable to the one of 18-centric hectares of winter wheat. And if we have a cow's milk yield of over 8,000 kilos, it's not exactly comparable to the average milking out of our time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U17	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U18	The next question is from my colleague, Kadri Samson, to the regional minister, Siim Valmar Kiisler. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U19	Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister for Regional Affairs! In the autumn of 2010, you signed, on behalf of the Government, the Final Protocol to the negotiations on the state budget of the Municipalities' Associations' Cooperation Council and the Government Committee. This document provided for additional funding to support the implementation of school support systems in the run-up to the state budget. In particular, a basic school and upper secondary school law had been adopted which imposed an obligation on schools to provide assistance to pupils in need of a social pedagogy and logopaedic. This year's state budget doesn't have that kind of financial separation. Why do you no longer support the provision of state budget resources for the implementation of the school support services?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U20	Yes, the general funding model for schools has changed over the years, and I therefore urge the local authorities not to plan future developments in their region on the basis of a one-year financing model. There must be a longer perspective on how to keep people on the ground, how to create jobs. All of this is, in conclusion, very important, not to get caught up in the recalculation of additional state subsidies for a year. The direction is now being taken to establish centres of support specialists with the help of the state. To this end, support from the Structural Funds is also provided for. And why is that? Our students are not on an equal footing, despite what you rightly mentioned. In some schools, logo beet aid is available and some schools do not receive logo beet aid. Let's face it, students are in a really unequal position. We need to level it somehow. Just foreseeing additional funding for a municipality or city with certain funding models does not mean that this aid is actually available to the student. It is therefore important to continue to think about how to improve the situation so that opportunities are more uniform for all.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U21	Please, Mr Simson, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U22	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister for Regional Affairs! However, with regard to the state budget this year, the Municipal Associations' Cooperation Council also expressed the view that the budget should continue to be allocated from the state budget to support the school support systems. Perhaps this is also the reason why the agreement between the government and the municipalities was not concluded this year. The Government Committee did not support this proposal. For one reason you said today and this has been explained in the past that since s. As of September 2007, the Director can order the service of support specialists from a national foundation that provides special education and psychological services to schools in at least every county. You said the children must be on an equal footing. But it must be borne in mind that a lot of young schoolchildren need help live and study away from county centres. Who still guarantees that the child will arrive at the support centre and who will pay the travel expenses?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U23	If we look at larger counties in terms of territory and number of students, it is clear that the support specialist can also travel to the school. For example, we do not have to deliver five children to the county centre; a support specialist can freely travel around the county. I think it makes a lot more sense overall. In any case, the solution would not be to transfer a certain amount of money to a small municipality and to calm ourselves down that everything is now in order. It's not okay! We know some students get help, some don't. Unfortunately, when we look at general trends, it tends to be that when we're in smaller municipalities, we give money, and we can beat it in the chest, it's all good, but it's not. Consequently, this task must be assumed by the State. If the first option had worked in such a way that the students could have been helped, I think we could continue the old way, but, unfortunately, this has not been the case. I therefore believe that the decision of the Minister for Education to restructure the system is reasonable.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U24	Please, Mr Simson, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U25	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister for Regional Affairs! You said that in education, the state is taking on certain tasks. Both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Education and Research have emphasised that Estonian school education must be based on a primary school close to home and this does not necessarily mean that the upper secondary school is also close to home. The plan of the Minister of Education seems to be the closure of a large number of magymnasiums, but the Prime Minister confirmed in this very chair a few weeks ago that the problem of student homes must be resolved before the schools are closed. Which minister do you share? Should the issue of student homes be resolved before schools are closed? And whose responsibility should be to finance the creation of student homes?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U26	First of all, I would point out that both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Education have confirmed that most upper secondary schools are held by local governments and that the establishment or closure of each school is the decision of the schoolkeeper. Just for the record, there are 215 municipalities in Estonia and 94 of these 215 municipalities have upper secondary schools. 121 municipalities do not have upper secondary schools, or most municipalities have decided at some point that it is not wise to have upper secondary schools and give upper secondary school education. It's probably going to change. I believe that such municipalities will be added over time. The smallest upper secondary school we have is an upper secondary school with four students. But there are a whole series of students with a total of about a dozen class kits. Considering that students are constantly decreasing, it is obvious that upper secondary schools will also be closed. I think the key issue is transport. Of course, it's very sweet for children to have school near home. But are we talking about children or are we talking about young people? I will give you a comparison of vocational education and training: the question is whether the school is close to home. Not close to home, but I'm sure everyone will agree that vocational education is much better today than before. Young people get better education and, in general, I think that this reform is not being reversed. From here we can draw a clear parallel with upper secondary schools. In general, the distance is not long and the number of students in small upper secondary schools is not high, so one school bus is enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U27	Now, the questions registered on the spot. Colleague Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U28	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I sometimes don't understand how you can belong to a political party with the Minister of Education and Science. You're conducting a completely different policy. The Minister of Education and Science is responsible for shutting down rural schools, your job is to preserve life in the country somehow. Currently, local governments are unable to compete with state secondary schools because state secondary schools are financed by the state and, as we know, the state still has money. How can a local government compete with state secondary schools for the financing model that has been put forward? This model is the first step towards losing upper secondary schools in rural areas. What kind of regional policy measure should the abolition of upper secondary schools be?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U29	When I meet European Union regional ministers or the ministers responsible for regional policy in OECD countries, it is very interesting that it focuses on the urban problem. It is understood that the region is strong when its centre is strong. It's a good place to live on Earth if you have everything you need in the nearest center and it's within a reasonable distance. With the Minister for Education, we certainly have no conflicting goals. The objective of the Minister of Education is that young people everywhere in Estonia get a good upper secondary school education with which they can succeed in life. These are very important for a young person for three years, on which the next 60 years of his life will probably depend on how well he is doing. We must not underestimate that. It cannot be a question of which matter is more important, either ten minutes of bus travel or a good education. As a parent, as a father of five, I say that a good education is, in any case, the most important thing for young people. At the same time, it is certain that, even if in some smaller places children are better educated, this means that our rural areas are on a solid footing. That's for people who live away from this strong high school.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U30	I would now like to ask the last question on the ground, which is from my colleague Lembit Kaljuvee.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U31	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good minister! The most serious brake on our education reform is the unorganized school network. Half-empty houses are fired, and the parishes say they can't clean up the school network on their own. That's a lot of money. Teachers can't get paid properly because they run half-empty school houses. Do you think the regional minister shouldn't be more serious about the problem and help the municipalities to get our school network organized?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U32	I agree very, very much with your problem-enhancing. Really, the idea that we have a house here, we have a school here, and we have to find students here, not the other way around, so where students want to get an education, we could make a new house. We've got these things upside down somehow. There are fewer students and fewer teachers, but still heroically, we keep our schoolhouse burning, cleaning, repairing, repairing the roof. We waste our education money on it, and then we complain that teachers have little pay. Indeed, we ourselves have created this situation, but organising local life is the work of the local government. If local governments were bigger and stronger, they would probably take more courageous decisions. Life has changed, and we have to adapt to it. It's more of a matter of decision-making courage that can still help here. If the mayor sees that he has ten students for the entire high school, let him honestly tell people what it's like. That's not enough for high school. This is the advice that is the main help, and that is what I have really offered to the municipalities. I've told them as much as I can, so listen, we can teach where there is, who we can teach. It's not like we keep teaching, but it's like there's no one to teach.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U33	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U34	The next question is from my colleague, Helmen Hunt, to the Minister of Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U35	Thank you, Madam President. Minister of Social Affairs! Last year, the need-based family allowance started to be paid to parents of single- and two-child families, who have to go back and ask for this so-called "poverty support" again and again in the municipality. This EUR 9.59 is still a very small amount. But that's it. Prior to the adoption of the law, it was assumed that this measure would benefit approximately 30000 children. Six months later, the situation is that a need-based family allowance has been received by slightly more than 10% of the children expected. Now, if you look back, do you think that something needs to be changed, done differently, complemented by this refund procedure? Suddenly you support the Social Democrats who have started the 'Children's allowance triple! '? I have this paper with me for you, by the way. I'll hand it over after Question Time. Could children benefit from normal support?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U36	First of all, I would point out that the need-based family allowance was paid not only to single- and two-child families but also to all families. And for families with three or more children, this support is much higher and will automatically be paid into their accounts. It is appropriate to provide estimates of the need-based family support measure when this reform is fully operational, i.e. after the beginning of 2015. However, the preliminary results suggest that the number of third, fourth and subsequent children already receiving needs-based family benefits is around 21000. This is certainly a significant part of Estonian children. The number of families receiving this support is 3197. This number is really somewhat smaller than we predicted, but it is very strongly correlated with other parameters. When we look at how many families with children apply for income support, the number is almost the same. Hence, families most in need of state support for economic survival have also applied for and received needs-based family support.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U37	Please, Mr Küttt, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U38	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, You answered as you liked to answer. I specifically asked about the need-based family allowance for single- and two-child families. It's great for families with three or more children to have it automatically, but let's look at the overall figures. One in four households with a minor child is a single parent's household, with one in six children living in relative poverty. In total, 37% of Estonian children live in either absolute or relative poverty or deep material deprivation. These are data from children's well-being studies. Do you really think that needs-based child support can help these children? Income support is poverty alleviation support. This is right and raising this border is very good, but child support should be equal for all Estonian children. We are honest, even you two ministers who receive child support do not need it because of poverty.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U39	Thank you. I agree with you: the fact that family benefits have increased significantly since the third child is excellent. And I thank you for this positive assessment. But when we talk about families' livelihoods, it stays on three pillars: it is a rewarding job, it is a strong health and it is precisely targeted support. You are also right when you say that, for example, the payment of child support to the children of ministers or Members of Parliament is not as important as paying it to the families most in need of state support. That is why needs-based family support has been put into effect. It is directly addressed to families who need state help to cope. The need-based approach is based on the threshold that if two children are in the family and less than 627.9 euros per month are taken together, they are entitled to additional support. I believe that, if we are going to increase child support, it would be wise to plan it so that future larger benefits are addressed in particular to families who need more public support, who have difficulty coping without it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U40	Please, Mr Küttt, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U41	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, The Social Democrats believe that all children in Estonia need triple child support, which they do not have to apply for again and again. Analysis of the situation has estimated that by 2040 the number of people in Estonia will decrease by a further 125000. A more flexible retirement age has been proposed for the solution, but it would be more worthwhile to raise as many future taxpayers in Estonia as possible, whose taxes will also come from pension funds. The average inflation rate in Estonia for the last 12 months was 3.1%. According to Eurostat, this is the highest figure in the European Union. We were followed by Romania with 2.9% and Great Britain with 2.5%. Do you have measures to help families cope with such high inflation more easily? Perhaps you will find something in the European Union's resources as well? I guess last night it came up with some coordination, huh?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U42	Thank you. There's a certain contradiction in what you're saying. On the one hand, you are saying that the children of ministers do not need additional support, this was in the introduction to your previous question, but now you are saying that all children should be given more support. Of course, if the money was infinite, it could be very kind. But I would point out that, if you implement your proposal to increase the support of all children, rather than on an ad hoc basis, public spending should be increased by about the budget of the Ministry of Justice. If you think this is right now, you should tell me where you're going to take this money. What is certainly feasible for the Estonian state and what I think should go forward is to increase the support of families who are more difficult to cope with. I would not object to their support being tripled, four-fold, or even five-fold, depending on the real situation of the family. I am also prepared to discuss any proposals that make it easier to apply for help and make it more comfortable for families. We are also ready to address all the problems that represent a small neck of bottles in Estonia. Being in this target group myself, I would argue that in Estonia, the biggest obstacle is that young families have no confidence in how their child can be kept. In very many regions, including Tallinn and other major cities, also around Tallinn, there are very long day-care queues. I'm sure we'll deal with that neck of the bottle. We intend to channel European Union money to a very large extent in order for municipalities to be able to build kindergartens. Believe me, if we do this, the confidence of young families will certainly increase.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U43	I would now like to ask my colleague, Mr Pikhof, a question registered on the ground.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U44	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You said the Social Democrats hadn't indicated where to take money to increase child support. But hopefully you will remember that during the debate on the state budget, the Social Democrats proposed not to reduce income tax in 2015. With this money, child benefit could have doubled. But my question concerns the wider area. Many people live in hard-working poverty, especially women who raise a child alone and maybe they don't get a living from their father. Their families are in a very bad situation. So there is no reason to say that if a person has a job, he will live and the children will grow up well in that family. But my question is about need-based family support. What makes you think that nine euros is exactly the amount that satisfies the needs of a failing family?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U45	Thank you. I would like to draw your attention to this, a good questioner, that the need-based reform of family support is at most halfway through, certainly not further away. As of 1 January 2015, the need-based family allowance will double as compared to the current situation. I would very much like us to be able to pay even more support to families who need the most state support. I think that we should look together for opportunities to do this. Your claim that single parents are harder to deal with economically is, of course, right, and the problems of single parents must also be addressed, as well as the receipt of maintenance assistance, which is a very serious issue. However, I would point out that the first and most powerful pillar, which helps to prevent poverty, is a worthwhile job. If we look at the correlation of poverty indicators with other indicators, the most obvious is that in families where there is no job for parents, the risk of poverty is greatest. Whether people have a productive job naturally depends very much on the overall economic environment, whether the state is pursuing an economic policy that favours job creation. At the same time, the work must also be cost-effective. I emphasized two words: people must have a rewarding job. And the overall fall in unemployment, which is already causing labour shortages in certain sectors, and which also motivates us to raise wages, will certainly contribute to the availability of viable work. Of course, decisions that the state can make will also be effective, including a very rapid increase in the minimum wage. After all, it has been decided that the minimum wage will increase by twenty percent over the next few years. All such decisions have a major impact on families' livelihoods and it is worth taking action to achieve these goals.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U46	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U47	Thank you. Honourable Minister of Social Affairs! I listened to a news show yesterday, and I am sorry that I cannot ask the Prime Minister this question. He said that when it comes to relative poverty, we have good enough indicators, they are the best in Europe. But I would also talk about absolute poverty. After all, we have 9.5% of children living in absolute poverty, these are the latest data for 2012. We also know that the poorest are families with children, where there are very many of them who do not work. 66% of such families live in absolute poverty, while around 84% live in relative poverty. Without children, over 65 years of age, 50% live in relative poverty. In fact, the Centre Party proposed a reform of child support, which would increase in three stages. You didn't support it. Why do you not want to overcome this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U48	Thank you. If we compare these indicators, whether relative or absolute, with those of other countries of the European Union, we will see that, in general, we are very close to the European Union average. With some indicators, we are ahead of the European Union average, some behind, but overall the European Union averages are similar to ours. But that's not the point of our ambition. Our ambition should be to achieve at least the level of Finland or Sweden. And I would argue that by significantly increasing needs-based family support, we will have the Finnish and Swedish levels achievable in a few years. That's what I think it's worth working for. Recently, much is compared to what was one or the other figure before Prime Minister Andrus Ansip took up his appointment, and what is it now. Take, for example, the indicator of absolute child poverty, which has more than doubled over this period. I think this is an important achievement. And the latest data is actually from before the need-based family allowance. This support, which is directly targeted at families where children live in poverty, will certainly reduce both relative and absolute poverty rates. In order to further reduce poverty, it is precisely on a need-based basis that child support needs to be increased. The second measure, which, alongside the need-based support, would significantly improve the livelihood of families and help to bring the absolute poverty indicator down to zero, is a significant increase in the level of subsistence. In particular, we need to increase the level of subsistence which applies to children when calculating the amount of the allowance, depending on the size of the family, and if we increase this coefficient, this would also help.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U49	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U50	The next question is from my colleague, Neeme the Great, to the Minister of Regional Affairs, Siim Valmar Kiisler. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U51	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. The question concerns the draft law on the reform of the local government organisation. Its explanatory memorandum states that after the adoption of this draft, the following topics are to be analysed: the general organisation of local authorities, the functions and revenue base of local authorities, the possibilities for implementing functional service areas in the areas of waste management, public transport management, social services, health and education, and the standardisation of public services. These issues, which are to be analysed after the adoption of the draft, represent a large part of the content of the self-governing administrative arrangements. How is it possible to first decide on the form of the so-called superstructure, or the form of the administrative division, and only then analyse the content? What's the logic here?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U52	Thank you. It is not a secret in Estonia that we are analysing the course of things. Activities related to the merger of municipalities and the results of administrative reform activities have certainly been analysed in Estonia for the last 15 years from year to year. For example, Jaan Apple Tree can tell you at length how everything has been analyzed, certainly many others. We're not missing any tests. But, of course, it is clear that it would be good to succeed in a more radical change. It would be possible for rural governments to delegate some of the tasks that are clearly self-governing in nature, such as subsidising public transport and regional planning, to the level of the municipality. However, these opportunities will open up if the municipalities are large and strong. If the municipality has only 700 inhabitants, i.e. as much as Lasnamäe housing company, there is unfortunately no prospect of giving more tasks there. That would be really complicated.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U53	Please, Mr Neeme Big, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U54	Thank you. This trend in public transport sounded pretty interesting. In general, the organisation of public transport is still planned to bring the region to a level. The plan to bring public transport to a lower level than the county, I heard for the first time. It is understandable that the need for cooperation between municipalities will not disappear with the model of attraction centres. According to the draft, the regional level is not suitable for cooperation between municipalities. According to the draft, what is the basic solution for organising cooperation between municipalities?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U55	I didn't quite understand the question. First on public transport. According to the proposals received from Saaremaa and Hiiumaa, there will be one attraction centre in the future and one municipality will be formed. In this case, it is reasonable that the public transport subsidy is organised through and through this municipality. In this context, no one plans to connect the bus traffic of Saaremaa smoothly with that of Pärnumaa, for example. It is clear that the distribution of public transport subsidies is still viewed on a county-based basis. Cooperation will of course remain, there must always be cooperation. No matter how big and capable our municipalities are, cooperation is always necessary. This bill also says that it is not mandatory to join Tallinn, for example. This is possible on a voluntary basis, but it is not mandatory. At the same time, it is clear that the municipalities around Tallinn need to cooperate well in the capital region as a whole. There's no very common rule here. It's important to know how people move. Our public sector must adapt to the way people move. It is also true that in time the boundaries of the counties have changed, and in some places they are now in the way of life. The border has been adjusted both before and later during the period of independence. It is necessary to examine how people move every day and to make public transport work as conveniently as possible for citizens. The public sector must adapt to the needs of the people, because it is for the people, not the other way around. Residents do not need to adapt to the wishes of our municipalities or other institutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U56	Please, Mr Neeme Big, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U57	Thank you, Madam President. Yes, in Saaremaa and Hiiumaa there is one attraction centre, but in Lääne-Virumaa there are a dozen. It's pretty interesting to take some services to a lower level. But most of the services that are currently being challenged for failure to provide to local governments, whether they concern education, public transport or planning, require cooperation between local governments and also after accession. Already today, the country is divided into sectoral regions, we have eight regional structures. The regional structure of the Police and Border Guard Board does not overlap with the structure of the Road Administration; the Environmental Board does not overlap with that of the Agricultural Board. Do you not think that if we switch to purely sectoral cooperation areas in cooperation between municipalities, the confusion will increase further?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U58	I am deeply convinced that it is very good that regional distribution in Estonia is not uniform. Many people want us to have a strong four-way distribution, which would mean focusing on four centres in Estonia. Public authorities would also be located in four centres. I think Viljandi could have a chance, too, Rakvere could have a chance. Such a more varied picture offers opportunities for every county centre and it is possible to organise any operation in one place for the whole of Estonia using modern information technology tools. That's what public authorities do. For example, we brought together the land government accounts and personnel records at one place. From Viljandi, this service is provided to the whole of Estonia. It is precisely from Viljandi that Estonia does not always have to be divided into four. Surely this is not practical. In some places there are more trees, in some places there are more students. So it is clear that, for example, the education system may have the same structure and the State Forest Management Centre may have a different structure, depending on how optimal it is. I am certainly not in favour of general unification. Indeed, when it comes to self-governance, isn't it a problem that if everyone is very voluntary and it is desired that everyone is very voluntary, we see the consequences today: some are weaker and others are stronger. This volunteering is also reflected in the proposals concerning the centres of attraction received from the counties. In Lääne-Virumaa, there was no decision-making courage and mummies were drawn everywhere, even in places where people do not really imagine a centre of attraction.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U59	Now two issues registered on the spot. Colleague Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U60	Thank you. I'll come back to the last question. You must have insulted the math schools, where the number of children is low. It is also possible to get a very good education from a small magymnasium; the results of the state exams have shown this in Värska Gymnasium, for example. Doesn't always have to be a major in high school. As far as administrative reform is concerned, the key issue is whether to carry out voluntary or forced mergers. The Latvian state, our neighbour, chose coercive mergers and there the number of municipalities decreased five times. A few weeks ago, we visited the Latvian Parliament and asked how the reform succeeded. They claimed that they succeeded quite well, that three quarters were satisfied with what they had done and that they were going on with it. Minister, do you know any countries in Europe where voluntary administrative reform has succeeded? Do you have any examples?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U61	In order to clarify the topic of maagymnasiums, I note that Värska's upper secondary school is not small in Estonian terms. We have much smaller upper secondary schools where the number of students decreases every year. In this context, Värska seems pretty big. As far as the administrative reform in Latvia is concerned, there was such a mechanism that the municipalities were given the opportunity to voluntarily seek out their partners and said that if you do not join, the state would make a decision for you. If I am not mistaken, the two municipalities finally went through the courts, and after that they were united. It was the same in Denmark: it was given the opportunity to join voluntarily, and finally, if I am not mistaken, there was a municipality that was compulsory to join someone by order of the State, because it did not find a partner for itself. I think this is a reasonable opportunity in the end. In Latvia, however, some municipalities remained considerably smaller than others as a result of the political agreements made in Seimi. This disunity has been criticised for Latvia's reform, and a uniform picture has not been achieved everywhere. The full picture was drawn as a result of a compromise between the political parties in Parliament. We have been asked in parallel that if we had made a voluntary monetary reform, that this would have succeeded. Probably not as good as now. I think, as well as the local government leaders, have made it clear that the guiding role of the central government and the Riigikogu is necessary. Then these decisions will also be made more easily on the ground.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U62	Please, colleague Jüri Morozov!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U63	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Minister of Regional Affairs! You've been messing with administrative reform for a long time, but unfortunately the performance score is still zero. The last time this issue was up here, you said that, unfortunately, no political agreement has been reached. Yeah, that's right. Here's what I'm gonna ask you. Instead of shaking ashes on the government's lead partner for not accepting your reform, should you not shake ashes on your head and admit that the plan you have prepared over a long period of time is not acceptable in the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U64	Yeah, I'm sure you should get some ash on your head. I agree with you. At the same time, we have achieved that attitudes have generally changed very strongly. There are twice as many self-government reform supporters as there are opponents. Recently, a survey was carried out in Keila city and rural municipality to see whether the city and rural municipality of Keila were in favour of joining. A total of 53% of the population supported it and 17% opposed it: 46% of the respondents in the city of Keila supported it and 19% opposed it, 62% in the municipality of Keila was in favour and 14% opposed it. This has been supported by the statements of opinion leaders in society, the President's speech on the anniversary of the Republic has clearly changed. If I was previously fought for why I wanted to reform the local government, then now I am right to be asked why this has not already been done. The attitude has certainly changed a lot over time. I believe that the discussions have been much more lively thanks to this raising of the issue. We saw in the last local elections in October that there were 215 municipalities instead of 226, but in general this issue is up and it is really, in substance and very seriously debated on the ground. There is progress, but I agree that it is not enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U65	Thank you very much, Minister. I will also stop dealing with this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, our Question Time is over. Thank you very much for asking questions and thank you to the members of the government for answering questions. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U66	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will start the sixth working week session of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. Ladies and gentlemen, there is now an opportunity to pass on drafts and enquiries. Please, my colleague, Urbo Vaarmann!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U67	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to return my inquiry into the problems of Tapa Special School. It has now been a month since we put forward a previous question on this subject, and the situation has got worse in that time. A number of articles have been published that the police are also concerned about what is happening. The people of the ministry can't solve the problem. According to our data, quite a few of the school staff have lost their jobs today, but the ministry's people have been on the ground relatively rarely. We hope that this time, the Ministry of Education will be able to give us better answers and pay more attention to this problem, as the situation has gone pretty bad. I would like to ask the Minister of Education, along with the other delegates, to pass this question on to the Minister of Education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U68	Thank you. I have accepted an inquiry on behalf of the Bureau. If it complies with the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, I will forward it to the addressee immediately. There are no messages for you today, and that's why we're about to do a presence check. 81 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 20 missing. Now, one more detail on the agenda. Yesterday, the first reading of the draft law implementing the Construction Code and the Planning Act initiated by the Government of the Republic was not started. It is put on today's agenda as a third item.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U69	We are going to today's agenda, the first item of which is the third reading of the draft law amending the pharmaceutical law initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. We can go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I will put to the final vote the draft law amending the pharmaceutical law initiated by the Government of the Republic 532. Please vote! 85 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U70	The third reading of the Act amending the Social Welfare Act, the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and the Social Benefits Act for Persons with Disabilities initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. Let's go to the final vote. Colleagues, I will vote in the final vote on the draft Act amending the Social Welfare Act, the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and the Social Benefits Act for Persons with Disabilities 471. Please vote! 81 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, no respondents, 2 abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U71	We begin the first reading of the draft law implementing the Construction Code and the Planning Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Hanno Pevkuri, Minister of Justice of the Speaker's Office, to serve as a waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U72	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Old folks have said thank you for your chores. Don't throw it tomorrow. We moved yesterday's work to today. Yesterday, due to the end of the session, the draft law implementing the Construction Code and the Planning Act, which bears the number 572, was not presented in advance. Like the Building Code and the Planning Act, the future law implementing these laws is, of course, a very good law. A separate implementing law is necessary in particular for the sake of clarity and comprehension, as well as because these implementing rules are closely interlinked and their sharing between the two drafts would lead to a misunderstanding in the implementation of the hierarchy between these rules. The future implementation law before you has two main objectives: firstly, to establish transitional rules with regard to the introduction of new laws, and secondly, to introduce amendments to other laws as a result of the approval of the Building Code and the Planning Act. The entry into force of the Building Code and the Planning Act is linked to the entry into force of the Implementation Act, so that changes in the field can all become effective at the same time. The implementing act repeals the Building Act, the Electricity Safety Act, the Gas Safety Act, the Lift and Cableway Safety Act, the Machinery Safety Act, the Planning Act, the Pressure Equipment Safety Act and the Road Act, as the requirements of these laws are covered by new laws, in particular the Construction Code. The transitional rules are such that the planning process initiated before the entry into force of this Act will be completed on the basis of the planning procedure in force until now in the Planning Act. The simple reason for such an approach is that due to the time-scale and the cost of planning procedures, it makes sense to process plans already initiated in accordance with the planning law in force in the past. However, the plan manager has the right of discretion to terminate the planning procedure if he considers that the plan under consideration will not be feasible in future due to legislative changes. This may also be the case where the organiser of the planning or the person performing that task under the management contract would have to make disproportionate costs due to the changed procedure in order to complete the planning procedure. This is considered on a case-by-case basis and the basis for this is the result of a new planning law. A requirement has been added that the detailed planning procedure initiated before the entry into force of this Act must be completed within three years of the entry into force of the Act. The completion of the procedure means that the local authority must take a decision on whether or not to establish a detailed plan. Therefore, the provision does not necessarily mean that a detailed plan must be established. A deadline is necessary to make it clear to individuals how and under what conditions they can use their property. A provision has been added that a detailed plan may be terminated if the new planning law does not require a detailed plan to be drawn up. As mentioned in yesterday's report, there will be no need to draw up a detailed plan in the future for buildings that no longer require a building permit to be erected. In order to reduce the administrative burden on a person, it makes sense to stop drawing up a detailed plan in such a case. Some points have been raised in connection with the draft Implementing Act by so-called illegal buildings, which have been built before the entry into force of this Act and have not been entered in the building register. In particular, local authorities play an active role in registering buildings. If buildings are discovered which are not included in the building register, the legal basis for the construction and any other relevant circumstances relevant to the conduct of the monitoring procedure shall be identified during the inspection. The monitoring measures provided for in the Law Enforcement Act and the Construction Code may be used to determine these circumstances. If the owner of the immovable property does not provide sufficient evidence of the time of construction, it is assumed that the building was built after the entry into force of the Construction Code. This provision is necessary to ensure that, in the absence of evidence of the time of construction of the building, stricter requirements are applied to the safety of the building. The building used at the time of the entry into force of the Implementing Act must comply with the construction safety requirements applicable at the time of construction of the building. The requirements must be furnished taking into account the legislation in force at the time of construction of the building, which means that the requirements must not be more burdensome for the person. The construction safety assessment shall be based on the construction project, and in the absence of a construction project an audit shall be carried out to assess the construction safety. In such cases, the audit shall replace the construction project in the permit and notification procedure. If a particular building is actively used, it must be entered in the building register. If the building is no longer in active use, the competent authority shall assess what to do with the building. It is possible to make a demolition decree or require the building to be preserved. If the audit reveals that the building is being renovated, demolished or otherwise needed, the local authority shall issue an injunction to bring the building into compliance with the requirements. In order to compel the person concerned to comply with this obligation, the maximum amount of coercive money shall be EUR 10000 for the natural person and EUR 100000 for the legal person. And finally, since the entry into force of all three laws. We have also planned to leave sufficient vacatio legis at the time of entry into force; the entry into force is scheduled for 1 July 2015. If Parliament is able to adopt both laws together with the implementing law before Midsummer Day, the annual transitional period should be sufficient to allow everyone to familiarise themselves with the new provisions of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U73	Thank you very much, Minister. You have questions. Mr Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U74	Thank you. My question concerns road maintenance. § 119 of the draft construction code refers to the obligation of the owner of the road to organise the maintenance of the road, § 23 of the draft implementing law talks about the obligation of the user of the territory adjacent to the road in the city, in the village and in the village to perform maintenance work. Since we have been asked about this, maybe you can explain again if anything changes in the current procedure? Does the sidewalk have to be maintained by the owner of the property next to it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U75	If we take the law of property and the normal obligations imposed on the owner, it is normal for the owner to keep his territory in order, then it is logical that the municipality and the state also have this obligation. Thus, the walkways that are on the territory of the municipality are maintained by the municipality, and those that are state-owned are maintained by the state. In densely populated areas, however, the current law obliges the owner to maintain the sidewalks adjacent to the property. In view of the current workable solution, as well as the fact that it would be unrealistic to impose such a burden on municipalities, it was decided that § 23 would be included in the implementing act, as you rightly stated, which would transpose the wording of the current law and provide that the owner of the property would also take care of the sidewalks adjacent to its property. So, with regard to the maintenance of pavements, the current regime will also remain in force when the new building code and planning law come into force.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U76	Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U77	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. In your speech, there was a phrase that 'the time of construction is not proved'. I have a detailed question as to how it is possible that construction time will not be proved. It means you have to build someone who doesn't get paid. Money doesn't move at all. He completes the building material from brick to window blocks and doors from the beginning with his hands and also installs himself, works on making and connecting pipes, builds the electrical and heating system, etc. In real life, there are always people who have been involved in construction, and it is always possible to prove when they have been built. Please explain what construction this is, the time of which cannot be proved!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U78	Thank you. The world is more complicated than building one house. If everything were so simple, it would, of course, be expected that it would be based on the time of construction and that it would look at which legislation was in force at the time. The building is a building or a building within the meaning of both the Building Code and the Law of Property Act, which means that it is often not necessary to buy doors and windows and bricks from which to rebuild the house. Buildings can also be considered as buildings. Take, for example, the situation in which someone decided at some point to build a small sauna house out of building materials accumulated over a long period of time. He built it all by himself. If he hasn't reported it to anyone, then it may be a classic illegal building, and the time to build it may not be clear. Consequently, an implementing provision was needed to say what to do in such cases. The implementing law states that if it is not possible to determine the time of construction of the building, the new law will be implemented. This is particularly in the interest of safety. So while in the ideal world we could assume that the time of construction of all buildings is identifiable, in practice, however, it happens that local governments have not found out that nobody has set up anything anywhere. Whether it's a small sauna by a lake or in the woods.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U79	Please, colleague Jaanus Tamkivi!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U80	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You also briefly touched on illegal buildings in your speech. Over the years, dozens and dozens of them have been built, and some of them have been tried to legalize afterwards. Sometimes this has been a success, and very often it has not. However, these illegal buildings, where they are erected, are largely still standing up to this day. What will happen to these buildings eventually, or how will these disputes ever end? I repeat, some buildings have been standing for years.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U81	The competence to decide what happens to them lies with the local government. The municipality must decide whether the building will be demolished or regularised. Whichever one is chosen will result in different future mechanisms. A building permit is also known to be needed for dismantling and, if necessary, this process must be carried out. If, as I mentioned, the owner, assuming that it is known who has erected the building there, does not undertake the demolition itself, it is possible, as I mentioned, to apply such a coercion that the municipality will allow the building to be demolished and will charge the owner for it. But in any case, we should get some clarity in the house. I believe that every municipality is interested in having all the buildings and facilities that are in its administrative territory legally in place. Of course, even after the entry into force of the new law, it is likely that the owners will set up something without any permission, either in ignorance of the need for a permit at all, or consciously, which is already a clear offense. And as a punishment for the offence, both new laws provide for certain amounts to be paid. I'm trying to check them quickly so I'm not wrong. So, when we talk about the maximum amount of coercive money, the draft construction code establishes up to EUR 6400 for a natural person and up to EUR 64000 for a legal person. While we are talking specifically about liability, i.e. fines, these are up to 300 fine units for a natural person and up to EUR 32000 for a legal person. So much for sanctions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U82	Please, Mr Erki Arrow!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, Is this problem not a slightly subjective assessment of the local government? Let's say it's a big family with a building that he doesn't have any money to take away. On the next block, there's someone rich who's made a sauna with 25 square meters of floor space. Maybe they'll make papers on it. Doesn't this arbitrary subjectivity cause even more dissatisfaction?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U84	Such a situation would not be achieved if all owners read the law and formalised the construction nicely. This requires a building permit. If you need a plan, that's what you do. Everything goes according to the law, and nobody thinks about giving a dismantle order. However, if forced money has been reached, it means that the building is illegal. And that, of course, is what the municipality, as a representative of the public authorities, has been called upon to take the decisions necessary to ensure compliance with law. However, any administrative decision shall be reasoned and, if the subject of the decision is not satisfied, he shall be able to challenge it. Remedies are available for this purpose.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U85	Please, colleague Margus Hanson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U86	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! I have a question about this whole building code package. When it was put together, was there a subject that Urve Palo briefly touched on yesterday? We know that in some countries the design conditions include certain standards for important nodes. They must meet specific requirements, including energy saving. This makes design much easier. Was such a topic dealt with, and if not, perhaps it would be necessary to deal with it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U87	We've left quite a lot to the owner to decide which way he'll choose. As far as energy savings are concerned, the type of heating is also chosen by the owner himself, according to his own possibilities, of course. If it is a district heating area, there are certain conditions, if there is no guarantee of any kind of heating, then the best choice is for yourself. The owner is free to decide for himself. Certain boundaries apply only to district heating. But the choice of material, whether to build a house of wood or stone, and which energy efficiency to choose, it is the owner's own decision. We have not wanted to prescribe by law, for example, that all the saunas that are built in Estonia should be based on at least 120-millimeters of beams. It can also be built from finer or thinner beams if you only want to make a summer sauna. It is the owner's choice which energy efficiency he chooses for his building.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U88	Please, Mr Erki Arrow, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U89	Thank you. I'd be more specific. It is quite understandable that if a new building is to be built, there must be a building permit and all other documents. But let's take the buildings built 30 years ago, for example. People have lived inside the house and they want to sell it, but they don't have an authorisation. They have to start legitimizing everything now, but they're on a dead end road because the local government can't grant permission. Where are we supposed to draw that line anyway? We obviously have a relatively large number of individual houses that do not have an authorisation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U90	As I said in my report, in cases like this, the same inspection audit will help out. If the house has been standing for 30 years, I see no need for the municipality to decide that it must now be demolished. The second question, of course, is how the house has been able to stand up for 30 years without the municipality knowing about it. When it comes to the process of attachment, all essential parts of the property, including buildings and structures, are entered in the register. It is very difficult to imagine how one building can stand unnoticed for 30 years or less. How long, it doesn't matter. What is important is that every time a person erects something, it is necessary to formalise the permit. And in order to complete the permit, if the owner does not have the building project and construction conditions available, an audit must be requested to verify the security of the building. I do not see any reason why obtaining authorisation should be very problematic.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U91	Please, Mr Hanson, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U92	Thank you. I would also like to clarify my previous question. I had in mind the so-called cold bridges that are important for energy saving. The solutions relating to them have, for example, been designed and approved by competent actors in Norway. The project will indicate whether the first, second or third solution has been chosen, so the owner of the building can always be sure that the building is heat-resistant and cold bridges are not designed in it. It is the country that has considered it important to organise things like this, because energy savings are of common interest to everyone. If we have not yet had this in mind, maybe in the future we should.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U93	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I now call for a presentation by Mr Kallas, Chair of the Committee on Economic Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U94	It is certainly worth considering how much we should regulate it at the level of the law. The so-called general construction conditions are regulated by decree of the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications. As far as the problem of cold bridges is concerned, even if the project envisages that it should be done either way, it cannot be ruled out that the builder is putting the bridge in a tree somewhere and that the cold bridge still arises. The thermal image can be used to identify whether or not there are cold bridges in the building. But we have general construction quality requirements. The website of the Technical Surveillance Authority provides a link to frequently asked questions. I would say that this is not a matter of regulation at the level of the law. If anything, it's a matter of lower law. It is the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications to assess whether he sees the need for this.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U95	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Economic Commission discussed the draft law implementing the Construction Code and the Planning Act, together with the drafts of the Construction Code and the Planning Act, at its meeting on 17 February. Since the issues relating to these drafts were so intertwined, I would like to make a specific point about implementation. The question was, for example, whether the sidewalks adjacent to the property no longer have to be maintained by the owner of the property. In conjunction with the construction code, as the Minister mentioned earlier, this obligation still exists. The Committee on Economic Affairs has decided to deal with these three drafts together, so I mean the building code, the planning law and the draft law implementing them. We decided to propose that the draft law implementing the Construction Code and the Planning Act be put on the agenda for the plenary session by 25 February 2014, to conclude the first reading and to set the deadline for the amendments at 5 p.m. on 25 March 2014. All these decisions were taken by consensus by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U96	Excuse me. March 25th or March 26th?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U97	The decision of the Economic Commission was to propose a deadline of 25 March, but today it is, yes, the second date. However, I cannot change the decision of the Committee on Economic Affairs from here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U98	Thank you! Looks like there's no questions. Still, there are questions. Please, colleague Jüri Morozov!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U99	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! Did you also discuss the subject of Articles 71 and 72 of the draft construction code? The road protection zone is extended to 30 metres instead of the current 10 metres provided for in the Road Law. There's gonna be a problem. There are also residential buildings in this zone, and § 72 of the bill states that the owner must allow dangerous structures limiting visibility to be removed. I imagine the buildings are dangerous in that sense, but there's nothing in the law of implementation about their elimination.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U100	Thank you. We didn't discuss it in that detail. If necessary, we will try to clarify this between the first reading and the second reading of the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U101	Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U102	Thank you, Madam President. Does the Commission treat these three drafts as one comprehensive package of the Building Code, Planning Act and the Implementation Act, or does it provide that the pace of their proceedings may vary? Is it going to take longer and faster with some? How about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U103	Since the drafts are intrinsically interconnected, we in the Commission have planned to look at them together. Very many topics are intertwined. In any case, the law of implementation is linked to both of them. I imagine we're all going at the same pace. We have been much approached about these drafts, and we will certainly be listening to get a better picture of the various issues. My idea is to handle them together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U104	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Kallas. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 572 amendments in s. 5 p.m. on 25 March 2004 First reading of Bill 572 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U105	We will begin the first reading of the draft law 552 on maritime labour initiated by the Government of the Republic. For a presentation, please, Minister of Social Affairs of the Speaker's Office, Taavi Rõivas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U106	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I'll introduce you to the draft law on maritime work. This draft regulates the relations between a ship owner and a crew member arising under a maritime labour contract and brings Estonian law into line with the Maritime Labour Convention and the Fisheries Convention of the International Labour Organisation and the Council of the European Union Directive. I will introduce you to the fundamental changes compared to the current law. This bill obliges the shipowner to conclude a maritime employment contract with all persons working on board the ship, i.e. crew members. This will increase the occupational protection of crew members who have so far worked without a maritime contract. The draft bans the conclusion of a maritime labour contract with a young person under 16 years of age, which is permitted under current law. Additional protection will be provided for minors who need it primarily because they do not have the same knowledge, experience, abilities and mental and physical health as adults. They also have to go to school. The draft has also been brought into line with the precise law in order to rule out overlapping regulation and contradictions. The draft also specifies what is involved in the payment of remuneration. For example, it obliges the shipowner to ensure that crew members are able to transfer their remuneration to a third party. The information to be made available to the crew member on board shall be supplemented. For example, information must be provided in Estonian and English. If the working language of the ship is Estonian, the shipowner is also obliged to provide information in the working language of the ship. The draft also amends the requirements on accommodation conditions for a crew member. At the level of the regulation, it gives details of the requirements to be met by the premises, such as how much floor space is required for everyone. The bill further specifies and regulates the provision of medical care to the sick or injured crew member. For example, a remote medical consultation in both Estonian and English must be ensured. The draft also obliges the shipowners to pay the costs of sickness or injury not only to the members of the crew during the illness, but also to pay the agreed remuneration for a maximum period of 16 weeks. The bill complements and clarifies the obligations of the ship owner, as well as of the state, in organising the journey home of the crew member. Reeder must have a guarantee to cover the necessary costs of driving home. This will significantly increase the social protection of the crew member. The Maritime Administration is obliged to organise a crew member's journey home in exceptional cases where, for any reason, the shipowner is unable to organise it himself or to bear the costs of sending him home. In this case, the expenses are covered by the reserve of the Government of the Republic. The draft also regulates the resolution of complaints arising from the employment relationship of the crew on board the ship. So far, this regulation has been completely lacking. Please support the bill! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U107	Thank you very much. You have questions too. Please, my colleague Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U108	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! You rightly said that the purpose of this bill is to bring our legislation into line with the ILO Maritime Labour Convention. One mandatory standard states that a ship owner of a State which has ratified the Convention must, in accordance with its legislation, the maritime labour agreement or the collective agreement, provide a financial guarantee guaranteeing compensation for the death or long-term incapacity of a seafarer due to an accident at work, an occupational disease or other risk factors. According to § 37 of the same bill, the shipowner is responsible as an employer for damage to health caused to a crew member by an accident at work and occupational disease on the basis and in accordance with the procedures laid down in the Act. Unfortunately, I did not find any reference to any other law or order in this draft. It is unclear how this draft is to be brought into line with the Maritime Labour Convention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U109	Thank you. This rather specific question certainly deserves a thorough answer and, if it suits you, we would respond to it in writing. I think there might be some nuance here that I can't exactly hit on the remote. I therefore suggest that we give the correct answer later.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U110	Please, colleague Jüri Morozov!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U111	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! The question is about unequal treatment, namely compensation for damage caused to crew members by the destruction of personal property. According to § 20 (3) of the draft act, a crew member shall be compensated for the destruction or damage of his personal effects only if the shipowner has caused such damage. There are no such cases in practice. For example, in the event of the destruction or damage to passengers' property, the Athens Convention of 1974, ratified by Estonia in June 2002, applies to passengers and their luggage by sea. Pursuant to Article 3 (1) of that Convention, the carrier is liable for the damage caused by the death of, or bodily injury to, a passenger and the loss of or damage to luggage, where the event which caused such damage has occurred during the carriage and is due to the failure of the carrier, or his servant or agent, to fulfil his obligations. Why are crew members treated less favourably than ordinary passengers who are temporarily on board the ship, while crew members are the ship's living and working for a long period of time?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U112	Thank you. I believe you agree that the rights of passengers and, at the same time, the obligations of shipowners with regard to them, and the rights of crew members and the obligations of shipowners with regard to them, are, however, different in many respects. They are regulated by different conventions and other legislation. It is logical to believe that, if the operation or omission of the shipowner has caused direct damage to the assets of the crew members, compensation for such damage is justified and elementary in every way. At the same time, if there is a risk of additional damage, the crew members will probably be able to insure themselves against it, just as each of us can. I'll bring you a parallel with the employers in the country. It is not conceivable that the employer alone is responsible for any material damage to employees. This would lead to a rather strong heeling of employers' and employees' relations, and if these relationships are very high, this will lead to bad consequences. I therefore believe that such an internationally agreed logic could also be taken over in Estonia. We must take into account that maritime law is by its very nature a very international phenomenon and start developing a separate logic in this area within Estonia, including, for example, trying to make the rights of the crew somehow the same as the rights of passengers, it may not have the effect that we are actually seeking.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U113	Please, Mr Kalev Lillo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U114	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. The logic of the Maritime Labour Act is actually reflected in ships sailing on distant seas. However, there are also a number of ships operating much closer, such as pilot ships and other auxiliary ships in ports. Why do we treat all crew members in the same way? Indeed, a crew member working in the ocean must be provided with a bed, food and hygiene equipment, but is it justified to apply these same requirements to ships which are predominantly in port, do short searches and do not really need such conditions? Have any consideration been given to the differences that the Maritime Labour Convention actually allows, as well as to those that concern, for example, fishing vessels?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U115	Thank you. On this subject, we discussed the draft in the Committee on Legal Affairs quite thoroughly in preparation for the first reading. In addition to the vessels fishing off the coast, this issue also concerns, for example, ferries travelling between islands and the mainland. It also concerns shorter sea routes from one country to another, and in the Estonian context, for example, ships travelling between Estonia and Finland. According to the specialists, certain principles must apply to all ships, including those that do not go very far from the continent. However, as regards the guarantees relating, for example, to the risk that some crew members must be brought home in the event of the company's bankruptcy, the Maritime Administration, whose responsibilities are greatly increased by this law, will certainly be able to exercise discretion and, for example, for vessels sailing between the mainland and the islands, to introduce a much lower level of security than for long-distance fishing vessels somewhere in the North Atlantic. These ships can also fly the flag of Estonia. That's the opportunity we really touched. At the same time, there is a theoretical possibility that, for example, there are sailors from distant countries on ships flying the flag of Estonia off the coast of Estonia. And if anything should happen to a particular shipowner, so that the crew members need to be sent home, this does not mean sending them to the Estonian beach. Sailors from some very distant countries must also be sent to their homes. This theoretical possibility still exists and it has therefore been found that such vessels should also be subject to these provisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U116	Please, Mr Anvelt, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U117	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! I am still concerned about the working conditions of Estonian seafarers compared to seafarers from other countries. The Convention states that the costs of sending home may be borne by the seafarer's salary if the seafarer has failed to perform his important duties. At the same time, these infringements must be established either in accordance with national law or in accordance with a collective agreement. However, § 55 (6) of this draft law states in very general terms that the costs of going home must be borne by the crew member himself if the shipowner cancels his maritime contract exceptionally due to a violation of his duties or illness or injury that was not known before. Why have Estonian sailors again been put in a worse position than the Convention provided for in the bill before us?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U118	Thank you. I would not generalise that the conditions applicable to ships flying the flag of Estonia are automatically worse due to this particular point. However, when preparing for second reading, these issues may still be resolved one by one in the Committee on Legal Affairs, which is not excluded. Officials from different countries, not only from the Ministry of Social Affairs, whose maritime exposure is quite low, this bill is our carriage because it is a labour law, it has attracted experts with a very good knowledge of the specifics of the maritime sector. I hope I'm not mistaken, but I think, for about four years, this bill has been drafted. This has really been a very long approach, there have been very, very serious discussions. I believe that when experts have reached such a compromise or agreement, there are certain reasons behind it. I am also convinced that these same people are ready to explain these reasons to the Committee on Legal Affairs. And if you direct political changes to certain provisions, you can.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U119	Please, Mr Morozov, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U120	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, This draft is a matter of national supervision contrary to the requirements of the Convention. Pursuant to Regulation 2.2 of the Maritime Labour Convention, the fulfilment of which should be shown in the Annex, all crew members shall be paid for their work regularly and in full in accordance with their employment contract. It is therefore not enough to carry out a check on the conditions for payment of wages only before the issue of a maritime work certificate. I ask: how will it ensure that national supervision is brought into line with the Convention?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U121	Thank you. The short answer is that it is guaranteed by law and implementing acts.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U122	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I call on the Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Marko Pomerants, to present this report.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U123	Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I promise I will not be doing the Commission's presentation for very long. Minister Rõivas has told us in depth about the need for a new law such as the Maritime Labour Act. For these reasons, you now have a good overview. The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed this draft at its meeting on 17 February, involving Teet Torgo, Legal Adviser to the Department for the Development of Working Life of the Ministry of Social Affairs in addition to the Minister. As appropriate for the preparation of the first reading, we first examined the general nature of the draft. Who has not yet studied the substance of the draft very deeply and maybe ask why there is such a title in the Committee on Legal Affairs, for their information that this is a completely logical committee. The draft is based on the logic of the Employment Contracts Act. There is only one basic distinction: regulated work takes place predominantly at sea. In addition to the differences in daily service, there may sometimes be a problem with people not getting back home. As regards compliance with the relevant conventions and Directive 2009/13/EC, which has caused the draft to be drafted, the Commission is currently based on the assumption that this directive will be transposed in Estonia when the law is adopted. If there is something else to be said here, we can certainly check these arguments in the Commission by preparing the draft for second reading. Then we'll find out how these claims really are. To highlight a few more keywords from the Commission's discussion, we wondered whether this law should bring more ships under the flag of Estonia or scare them away from here. We have come to the conclusion that it is very difficult to assess, but rather it should not have a special impact on the size of the number of ships in the Estonian ship register. After examining the draft and receiving answers to its questions, the Commission unanimously decided that the draft was ready to take the large hall to its first reading. We propose to stop reading this day. The proposal was born by consensus. Similarly, we consensually thought that the deadline for amendments should be set at 17:00 on 12 March 2014. Linnar Liivamägi, our advisor to the Commission, is collecting all these proposals. We can get to know them and, if necessary, discuss certain provisions, including parties who have already responded to this draft. Both representatives of the Estonian Seamen's Independent Trade Union and representatives of the shipowners have responded. I'm sure we'll have time to hear both sides out. That's all for me. The second-reading report is probably going to be more in-depth, and probably there are issues we need to stop on more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U124	Thank you very much, Mr Pomerants. Looks like there's no questions. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 552 amendments. 12 March at 5 p.m. The first reading of bill 552 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U125	The second reading of the draft law 549 on the amendment of the Commercial Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws begins. I would like to ask Mr Gräzini, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, for a presentation. But first, I'll take the manager's break, three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U126	The chairman's recess is over. We will begin the second reading of the Draft Law on the Amendment of the Commercial Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 549. I would like to ask Mr Gräzini, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, to be the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U127	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, There's nothing scary about this bill. It's not about nerves, it's just another day in a row, I'm starting to bleed out of my nose for some reason, and I can't stand it right now. I'm sorry! You see, the cotton is here. The Committee on Legal Affairs last discussed this draft on 18 February 2014 and made certain changes to it, which are already known to you, but I will still draw attention to them. First, in the wording of the new § 4275 of the Commercial Code, in subsection 19 of the Bill, replace the words 'in the Register of Location' with 'in the Register of Registers'. I mean, instead of a location register, they talk about a registry card, just as it is in other business documents. The second amendment concerns § 9 of the Bill concerning the amendment of the Commercial Cooperatives Act. The proposed amendment introduces, in substance, the same procedure as was in force until 1 July 2009. It provided that a separate notification would not be sent to all members in the case of a certain number of members of a commercial association, it would suffice to publish the notice in one of the local newspapers and at least one of the daily newspapers of national distribution. This regulation was in place when it was a very large number of people and big things. And the third amendment, which was also taken into account, was that, like a public limited company, profit cooperatives should be allowed to convene a general meeting with the publication of a notice in the newspaper if the cooperative has more than 50 members. In addition, the notification should be published on the cooperative's website, if any. Most cooperatives have a homepage created. In addition, at the request of a member of the cooperative, the announcements to convene the general meeting should now be sent to the nota bene! a place with an e-mail, which is a relatively new thing. But in order for a person to receive an invitation by e-mail, he must write a statement to the cooperative about it. And e-mails containing invitations and other messages must be sent to those who wish to receive it, regardless of whether the members are 5, 50, 5000 or 5 million. Electronic communications will be the right of each member of the cooperative and the obligation of each cooperative pursuant to this law. I would like to point out once again that it has been emphasised in the explanatory memorandum that sending a call message by e-mail is, in my opinion, an important breakthrough. be mandatory for a profit-making cooperative. So, in view of the fact that a profit cooperative is an interested party in the whole game, they want to take all kinds of decisions and they need people to show up, the cooperative should use all the electronic means at its disposal to gather the necessary quorums and votes. The last point is that we will probably have to come back to it in a year, two or three. Finally, in four to five years' time, the obligation to publish in the newspaper will disappear. Why? If we are talking particularly about cooperatives operating in the countryside, we must take account of the following factors. First of all, whether you want it or not, the paper is very expensive, especially for the person who lives in the country. Second, the newspaper doesn't move as fast as it used to. Often people order only one page that reaches their mailbox, i.e. a few or three days later, or they go to the library to read the paper once a week. From the point of view of transmitting messages, it's hopelessly late. I think that this publication in national or national and local newspapers is, to some extent, a remnant of those times when the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet of the Soviet Union had to be published in the newspaper Izvestija and two days later in the newspaper Pravda. As Izvestija and Pravda are no longer present and even the Chronicle has begun to be read on a diagonal scale, this requirement for publication in the paper is likely to disappear sooner or later. But for now, it's still there. The newspapers are, of course, interested in advertising is advertising and money is money. However, I believe that we will soon come back to this very paragraph with a proposal that we will no longer make this information mandatory in the paper. We are counting on our electronic development. But it's just a guess that ran through the committee. Everything I've told you isn't about any of the places I'm talking about. The Commission took account of all the proposals put forward, and three of them were with 10 votes in favour, 0 against, 0 abstentions. All decisions, including the continuation of the debate, were taken by consensus. That's all I got. No one in the Commission had anything to ask, I hope not in the big hall either. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U128	Thank you, Igor! There are no questions in the big hall either.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U129	Thank you. And I'm sorry again!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U130	Please! Do colleagues want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. As Mr Gräzin said, there were three amendments to this bill. The first was presented by the Committee on Legal Affairs and it has been fully taken into account. The second was proposed by Riigikogu member Igor Gräzini, which was taken into account in substance by the commission. The third was the amendment tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs and it has been fully taken into account. We have examined all the amendments. The second reading of bill 549 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U131	The last item on our agenda is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and liquid fuel initiated by the Government of the Republic. For the presentation, I would like to ask Mr Tarmo Männi, Member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to give a speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U132	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was in this Chamber at first reading on 23 October last year. The deadline for the amendments was set at 6 November 2013. The aim of the draft is to reduce tax fraud in the fuel sector. Namely, the oil oil is now being imported across the border and the products sold illegally are very similar to diesel and petrol. The European Union's rules on the classification of goods make it possible to bring to Estonia products similar to diesel in terms of chemical and physical properties and to dispose of them illegally as motor fuel. The draft gives the Tax and Customs Board the right to detain liquid fuel, including liquid combustibles, until the facts are explained, within the meaning of the Act on Excise Duties, where there is reason to believe that they do not comply with the established requirements or with the documents provided for that fuel, or there is a suspicion that it will be handled outside the national supervised treatment system. There is also a right to detain fuel if its non-targeted use results in an excise duty obligation being imposed or increased. The amendment complements the definition of liquid combustibles, the provisions on taxation and gives the tax authorities the possibility to require the payment of a security in the case of seized fuel. Until the security is lodged, the fuel shall remain under the control of the tax authorities and, if the person does not prove that the oil is used for purposes not subject to excise duty, the security shall be enforced. This was briefly the content, which was also presented at first reading by the initiator of the draft. It is noteworthy that in the current situation, according to the Tax and Customs Board, the total annual tax gap resulting from this reason is EUR 9 million. The Commission discussed the draft at its meeting on 17 and 25 February and, in cooperation with the initiator, made four amendments to the draft by consensus. Amendment 1 clarifies the definition of the operator of liquid combustibles for excise purposes. Amendment n° 2 states that in this context it is a guarantee of excise duty which provides the basis for the disposal of fuel seized by the tax authorities if the fuel operator does not provide a guarantee of payment of taxes. Amendment 3 is a technical amendment due to the parallel processing of drafts amending the same provisions in the Riigikogu. Amendment 4 proposes that the draft be put into effect earlier, i.e. on 1 April this year. It is estimated that this would generate 1 million more tax revenues for our country. During the procedure, the Estonian Chemical Industry Association addressed the Commission, who was concerned about the security of supply of chemical companies. The bill gives the Tax and Customs Board the right to detain liquid fuel, including liquid combustibles, in order to clarify the facts. According to a representative of the Ministry of Finance, they have met with representatives of the Union, the problems raised have been discussed and the regulations proposed in the draft have been clarified. The representatives of the Ministry confirmed to the Commission that there should be reasonable doubt as to the presumption that the liquid combustible material concerned should be detained on the basis of discretion. The Tax and Customs Board, for example, has no reason to detain or burden with a guarantee the traditional cargoes of recognised chemical companies that have been operating for a long time. The Commission's consensual decision was to propose the end of the second reading of the draft and, if the second reading is completed today, the final vote tomorrow, 27 February. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-26_U133	Thank you very much, Mr Tarmo Mänd. Looks like there's no questions for you. Thanks again! Do colleagues want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. As my colleague said, four proposals have been put forward to amend the draft law. Everything is fully presented and accounted for by the commission. Let's go through them. The first amendment, the second, the third and the fourth amendments. The second reading of bill 491 is complete. Ladies and gentlemen, our agenda has been discussed. Thank you. Closure of the sitting at 3.11.
