ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the session of the first working week of the VIIIth plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. It is not recommended to hand over any drafts or requests for information. We're going to the presence check. Please, let's do the presence check! 76 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, no 25.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U2	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the Minister for Defence's political statement 'Overview of the NATO Summit in Wales'. The waitress is Secretary of Defense Sven Mikser. I would like to introduce you to the political statement procedure. First of all, today's Secretary of Defense's report is up to 20 minutes. Followed by questions and answers, up to 60 minutes in total. Each member of the Riigikogu may ask two oral questions to the rapporteur. The negotiations will then be opened, during which the representatives of the political groups may take the floor. Now, please, Secretary of Defense Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U3	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Let me begin by wishing you a serious and hard-working autumn session, and also thank you for the opportunity to present to you the results of the NATO summit last week in Wales, particularly those concerning NATO's presence and deterrence in our region. I would first like to remind you that since Estonia joined NATO ten years ago, there have been eight alliance summits: in 2004 in Istanbul, a year later in Brussels, 2006 in Riga, 2008 in Bucharest, an anniversary summit in Strasbourg and Kehl, celebrating the 60th anniversary of the creation of the alliance, then in Lisbon in 2010, a summit in which the current NATO strategic concept was adopted. A meeting was held in Chicago and now in Newport, Wales. It can be said that while the world has seen many dramatic events in the meantime, the security situation in Europe and its immediate vicinity has never been as difficult and dangerous as it is now. Very rarely have the wording of the NATO Summit and the decisions to be taken there been followed in Estonia with such attention and heightened expectations as this time. In view of all this, it is particularly good to note that the decisions and conclusions of any previous summit have not been as Estonia's face as this time. We have already said before we head to Wales that this summit must become a summage which confirms the return of the alliance to its original core function, which is the joint defence of the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of all the allies. And we have received strong assurances from Wales that NATO's collective security principles are being taken seriously by all its allies and that all its allies are committed to fulfilling their responsibilities. Good Riigikogu! It is a fact that, for the first time since the end of the Cold War and the subsequent enlargements of the Alliance, Europe is facing very serious crises in its eastern and southern neighbourhood. Russia's aggression against Ukraine and the annexation of Crimea threaten not only the preservation of the architecture so far of European security, but also a direct challenge for the member states of the Alliance that are directly bordering Russia, as it affects their security and security. Unfortunately, it is more than likely that if the aggressive and expansionist policy of the Putin regime does not receive a clear and unambiguous response, it may encourage the Kremlin to take further provocative and aggressive steps against its neighbours. The security situation on NATO's southern wing is just as dramatic. The barbaric crimes committed by a terrorist organisation called itself an Islamic State in Iraq and Syria cannot leave the world indifferent. Apart from the impending chaos on the eastern and southern shores of the Mediterranean, we must take serious account of the fact that quite a considerable proportion of the fighters of the Islamic state carry in their pocket the passport of a European country and, one day, when they return to Europe, they will inevitably become a serious threat to their internal security. Russia's aggression against Ukraine, as well as those taking place in Iraq and Syria, clearly prove that today's warning period has become virtually null and void before crises and conflicts erupt. In order to cope with this threat, it is necessary to make a serious contribution to intelligence and situational awareness. However, in terms of conflict prevention and conflict resolution, the presence and credible deterrence of the allies, the high level of preparedness and the ability to react quickly are of key importance. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Over the years, Estonia has constantly emphasised that collective defence must be the main focus of all NATO activities. This is the reason why the alliance was created in 1949, and this is the main reason why Estonia worked further to join the alliance since the restoration of independence. It is the principle of collective defence that has made NATO the most powerful and successful security organisation in history. The contribution we have made to NATO for ten years, in conjunction with what is currently happening in and around Ukraine, gave Estonia the opportunity to speak in a voice that is louder and much more audible than our size or our small size would expect. Together with the other countries of the east of NATO, we called for more attention to the security of our region, not only in words but also in deeds. We have obtained the results of this attention and will be able to see and experience in the near future. The Estonian delegation went to the summit with the five central wishes that we presented to our NATO allies in connection with the crisis in Ukraine and the tense security situation. Firstly, we wanted to see NATO's visible presence in our region, both in the air, on land and at sea. Secondly, we wanted NATO equipment to be pre-allocated to our territory. Thirdly, we wanted NATO's defence plans to be adjusted in such a way as to respond to the changed security situation. The fourth wish was for us to see the alliance's rapid response units raised. Fifthly, we wanted the allies to confirm that the reduction in defence spending will stop and that all all the allies will move towards an increase in defence spending to at least 2% of GDP. Today we can say that we were able to achieve most of the recommendation. Of course, there are objectives that still need to be pursued. However, we have never had the illusion that history should have reached its happy end with the Welsh Summit. In addition to the final declaration normally accepted at the summits, the second important document adopted by the Summit was the Alliance's Preparedness Action Plan in English. I recall that in the spring, shortly after the start of Russia's aggression against Ukraine and the annexation of Crimea, NATO's military leaders prepared a package of immediate measures to strengthen security. This package also received political approval and was immediately put into practice. The Estonian Government's position at the time was that since the change in our security environment is long-term, the reinforced deterrence in the Baltic Sea and Black Sea regions must not be one-off or temporary. We insisted that a reinforced presence in our region should become the alliance's new normal state, a new normality. With the preparedness action plan approved in Wales, this new normal state was confirmed by NATO's Heads of State and Government. This new normality provides a framework for strengthening the security of Estonia and NATO as a whole in order to be able to respond adequately to the deteriorating security environment in Europe due to Russia's aggressive behaviour. In essence, this is a completely new starting point for all NATO activities. The measures to strengthen NATO's eastern wing security, which, according to the preparedness action plan, will continue, include the following components as key elements: firstly, increasing NATO's presence on the eastern wing of NATO in the air, land and sea; secondly, pre-location of equipment and logistics; thirdly, bringing one management staff to the territory of one of NATO's eastern states; fourthly, regular use of Ämari air base for air security; fifthly, units of allies in Estonia and the rest of the Baltic Sea region that are constantly rotating; and sixthly, increasing the number and volume of exercises based on the collective protection scenario. It goes without saying that in the case of deterrent measures affecting us, Estonia is obliged and also ready to offer the allies its own support from the host country. The Action Plan on Preparedness as a framework has been approved and must now be implemented with specific content, as agreed at the summit. This requires intensive and urgent work, above all, in Brussels, but certainly also in all the capitals of the allies. First reviews of the results of this work are already awaited by the following meetings of foreign and defence ministers. In addition to these deterrence measures, a decision was taken in Wales to set up a very rapid response capability unit within the NATO response force, in English as part of the NATO Response Force. This unit, called Very High Readiness Joint Task Force, is able to react within a few days and its chain of command has been shortened so that its use can take place smoothly and smoothly. The expected progress was also made in the field of cyber defence in Wales. Together with the head of the NATO Development Forces, I signed at the summit an agreement whereby the Estonian cyber lab (cyber strict) had additional functions to help develop the cyber defence capabilities of all members of the alliance and also of the closest partners. Given that almost all future armed conflicts include a cyber component as an essential element, this is a decision that will significantly improve the preparedness of the allies. Honourable Riigikogu! It is probably no secret that, after the end of the Cold War, especially after the end of the last decade's economic crisis, the defence expenditure of most NATO Member States fell deep below the conventional line of 2% of the Member State's gross domestic product. Estonia's position has been that in a situation where, for example, Russia's defence spending has increased by almost 50% since the war in Georgia in 2008, NATO's defence spending must also be halted and reversed. Only then can we be sure that we will be able to maintain and develop the military capabilities that we need to cope with the threats of the real world and do not have to deal with wishful thinking or rewrite threat assessments according to the capabilities we can afford under the conditions of a limited resource. It is not realistic to reach 2% overnight, but it is positive that the Wales Summit has made concrete promises in this respect as well. Allies, whose defence expenditure is already 2% of GDP or more, including Estonia, promised to maintain this level. Those allies that currently contribute less than 2% committed themselves not to reducing defence expenditure as a ratio to GDP more and to reaching 2% in the next ten years. It was also agreed that during the same period, all the allies would reach a level where 20% of defence expenditure would be devoted to large investments and R &amp; D. In addition, the Allies were obliged to report annually on the state of their defence expenditure. It is important to note here that this is the first time that 2% of the commitment was made at the level of Heads of State or Government. Good listeners! All these measures will help to raise military protection to a higher level than it has ever been. The steps decided jointly by us and our allies ensure that the Allied units remain on Estonia's territory and that NATO is able to respond much more quickly to any threat. Yes, I have sometimes heard claims in recent weeks that the Estonian Government should have demanded and brought even more home at the summit. It may be that eating grows in appetite, but it is certainly worth noting that NATO is not an Oriental market, a bassar, where a ten-fold price is asked to begin with to reach a more moderate agreement by arguing and intensive gestures. Imagine that when we ask for a division, we get a battalion, come from the time when it seemed reasonable to start sniffing out the fund and the limit several times more than was actually considered conceivable or reasonable in Moscow. Some domestic and foreign critics have tried to question whether NATO can even defend its members. The answer to this is very clear and unambiguous: yes, of course it can. Despite the challenges of keeping defence spending at the appropriate level, it is generally known that NATO's collective defence spending exceeds Russia's defence spending more than ten times, for example, and the conventional armed forces of NATO's allies are far more powerful than those of any country or block of states. This is certainly enough to discourage Estonia's aggressive neighbour also in the Baltic Sea region, where Putin believes he has conventional dominance. I have no doubt that, if necessary, NATO and all its Member States will be up to their responsibilities. However, although I am convinced of the military capabilities of the alliance, the solidarity of the allies and the strength of Article 5, this may not be enough. The allies' determination and strength to protect us must also be convinced of the potential aggressor. I believe that the decisions taken in Wales gave a very clear and unambiguous signal of this. I would add that although the determination of the alliance to protect all the allies when necessary is iron-proof, Estonia, for its part, wants to do everything possible to ensure that such an event, which would trigger Article 5, will never happen. And this is guaranteed in the most reliable way by a visible and credible deterrent attitude. In this regard, too, the decisions taken at the summit gave us much confidence. Everything that was achieved in Wales was largely realised due to Estonia's exceptionally good reputation among its allies. In addition to keeping national defence spending at 2% of GDP, this reputation also includes our proportionally very significant contribution to the Afghan operation and other alliance crisis response missions, as well as the position of cyber defence, cyber security work and opinion leader. Our view of NATO's allies is not based on our words, but much more on our actions to date. There is certainly no excuse or excuse for NATO's umbrella to make a contribution to its security in the future. We must continue to make efforts to keep track of the progress made in Wales. The development of Estonian military defence is carried out according to long-term plans based on the consensus between political parties on key defence issues and stable national defence funding at 2% of GDP. This consensus must be maintained in calm and difficult times, both between the elections and before the elections. Finally. Security needs not only military force but also a strong will and a common sense of faith that we ourselves can and want to defend ourselves and trust in allies who have confirmed their commitment to protecting and supporting us. Today, more than ever, Estonia needs a balanced, responsible and argumentated debate on defence, not over-exploited emotions and unconstructive panic. A local analyst wrote these lines some time before the summit in one of the Estonian media publications: 'It is most important to understand that NATO does not currently have countries, including the United States, who would be willing to give the Baltic States a draft promise to go to war for them. There is no automation, and these discussions are still open in Washington, London and Berlin. ' The clearest answer to such opinions, however, is the speech given by the President of the United States, Barack Obama, just before the summit in Tallinn, in which he said: 'This alliance does not have old members and new members, senior partners and young partners, it is only allies. It's all that simple. We are absolutely defending the territorial integrity of every NATO member. ' He also stressed that Estonia will never lose its independence with NATO. Protecting Tallinn, Riga and Vilnius is as important as protecting Berlin, Paris and London. Good Riigikogu! The multiplicity of opinions and freedom of opinion are high and worth defending in a democratic society. Who can be believed is a free choice for everyone, but I can assure you that the words of the leaders of NATO Member States, including the most militaryly and politically powerful Member States, do not express one possible opinion or thought, but a position based on the utmost intelligibility and behind these assurances is a complete willingness to defend their promises by action. In the end, I would like to thank all the diplomats of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the DOD officials and the Defence Forces officers whose months-long effort also looks back on the summit documents. Their work is mostly hidden from the cameras, but it is often more intense than the politicians' debates at the summit meeting table. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U4	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Karel Knight!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U5	Thank you. Dear Minister, Undoubtedly, the visit of the President of the United States last week was a very great recognition both for the Estonian state and for the Estonian people. Why do you think the President of the United States visited Estonia in the run-up to the NATO summit?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U6	Certainly, the White House Head of State draws on quite a number of considerations when preparing the travel schedule. It is clear that the President of the United States is an exceptionally welcome guest in the vast majority of the capitals of the world, and he will certainly not be able to accept invitations from all countries during his term of office. In the case of Estonia, I believe, it was the main considerations that I emphasised. We had reason to hope to find support for our positions at the NATO summit table. We are a visible and very strong ally in NATO; our contribution to NATO is certainly quite large both in terms of defence expenditure and in terms of participating in operations. Of course, a small country is a small country, but Estonia has been a good ally to its larger partners, and it will certainly be recognised in the way that we are supported. The visit of the President of the United States right before the summit is certainly a very high recognition. Of course, I also believe that the President of the United States had the desire not only to give Estonia, but also the other Eastern NATO Member States a clear signal that, in a difficult security situation, there is a presence with us, and not only the same clear signal to all those who would want to compromise our security, that it should not be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U7	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U8	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. The Prime Minister said that Estonia's contribution to NATO's activities of 2% of GDP is too small, there is a need to put more money in it. That's my question. How much do you think this addition could be, and from which budget line can these amounts be taken?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U9	The Prime Minister has said, and I have emphasised in the past, that Estonia must certainly keep defence spending at 2% of GDP. This is not, in fact, the so-called NATO contribution; these are the costs that we make ourselves in order to maintain and develop our defence capabilities. Of course, part of the money will also go to be prepared to work with NATO's allies if necessary, and part of it will be needed to participate in NATO operations. This 2% is targeted at real activities, real investments and other expenditure, whether it be development of defence-related infrastructure, training and provision of units or large-scale procurement. When discussing the state budget at the end of last year, no one in the Riigikogu anticipated that in 2014 there would be a need to host allies' airmen at the Ämari Air Force Base or also allies' troops on Estonian soil. These expenditures were not programmed into the state budget, but because they are unavoidable and essential expenditure, it is not reasonable to do them at the cost of canceling or delaying long-term plans; it is reasonable to make these expenditures in addition to what was planned. As a percentage of GDP, this is not a very significant amount. Together with the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, we have sought and found cover for this. At the same time, I think that, despite the fact that we are talking here about EUR 3 to 4 million, this is a very fundamental and important issue. We do not finance the host country's commitment in such a way that it suffers from some of the procurement priorities of the Defence Forces, such as the procurement of equipment. It is clear that everything that does not involve the procurement of equipment and investments is relatively "locked" money and cannot in principle be used flexibly for other purposes. So I think that keeping the level of 2% is important and the costs of the host country should be added to this year and next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U10	Thank you. Please, Tiit Tammsaar!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U11	Thank you, Madam President. Good Secretary of Defense! There is no doubt that Obama's visit and the final NATO summit will give both Europe and Estonia the courage and encouragement to actively engage in the defence of their country and of the whole of Europe. But we'll come back when we just stepped into NATO. In addition to agreeing to allocate a national defence budget of 2% of GDP, we also agreed not to draw defence forces into politics. But now our coalition partner has introduced a new paradigm: both the Minister of the Interior and the young politician Kalle Palling, especially the latter, have called on defence allies to discuss defence and security policy in Rapla, for example, through the mailing list of the Defence League. Is this some kind of new paradigm? What do the Department of Defense and the Minister think?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U12	Indeed, there is a ban on participation in political parties and politics for defence forces in active service in Estonia. At the same time, the Defence Forces are certainly an open institution in Estonia, and there are so-called correct and less correct ways of using professional advice from the Defence Forces, including in the preparation of electoral programmes. I am absolutely convinced that neither the Commander of the Defence Forces nor the Commander of the Defence League will refuse to appear before any political party, any decisive assembly or forum. At the same time, I don't think it's right to try to get the actives involved by mass posting. That's what I personally deplore. However, what is meant by the restriction on the members of the Defence Forces to participate in the activities of political parties could be an exchange of views as a matter of their own; this is not a matter related to the NATO summit.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U13	Thank you. Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U14	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. According to media reports and also personal contacts, it has the impression that a large proportion of non-Estonian residents in Estonia have a negative view of Wales' agreements. They are seen as a threat to Estonia's security, both in terms of provoking the eastern neighbour, and in view of the fact that the placement of foreign troops in Estonia may make Estonia the object of the first strike in the event of a military conflict. Has the government acknowledged this problem and planned any measures to alleviate such fears and attitudes?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U15	The fact that in terms of media consumption, people with Russian native language are in a somewhat different information field than those with Estonian native language is a problem that has still been recognised. And, unfortunately, more solutions have been sought than found. Both the Government of the Republic and, I believe, the Riigikogu will continue discussions on how to provide information to non-Estonian native people in Estonia, which would bring them closer to our information room. This is certainly a major challenge for which there are no quick solutions. You have probably been closely following the discussions that have been held in Russian, either for the creation of a media channel covering Estonia or all Baltic countries or the whole of Eastern Europe. However, I believe that, in the absence of a resource or political agreement, these overly ambitious projects can only remain dreams. I'm sure you'll have to start a little lower, grassroots level. However, as regards the fact that the presence of allied forces on Estonian soil could worsen Estonia's security situation, there is certainly no way to agree with this statement. I am absolutely convinced that with such difficult to predict behaviour, but with the latest experience of aggressive regimes, such as the current Putin administration in Russia, weakness is certainly more provocative than strength. When allies are perceived as suspicious, hesitant, and divided, it is more of a temptation to try happiness and take aggressive steps. If the allies are perceived as strong, united and resolute, then perhaps not. I think that if the military members of the Allied States who are on Estonia's territory, who are conducting their training here and are practicing with the Estonian Defence Forces, start up different scenarios, including the movement of Estonia's territory, none of these exercises will have attacks on NATO, it should certainly not worsen our security situation or do so. Rather, it is an activity that improves the security situation in Estonia and it is believed that it will also strengthen the sense of security for all Estonian people.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U16	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U17	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. I am asking about Article 5 of the NATO Treaty. And I ask you this: why must one article of the Treaty always emphasise and repeat that it is still valid? Should it not be self-evident that the Treaty is not called into question?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U18	Certainly, NATO's founding agreement, the Washington Accord signed in 1949, will be valid as long as no one has revoked or changed it. This includes, of course, Article 5. What makes Article 5 a special article? The NATO Treaty is a very short, very well-reading text. Article 5 states that, in accordance with the principles of the United Nations Charter, all states that are parties to the Treaty regard an attack on an ally as an attack on everyone and protect it jointly by a Member State that is under attack. That is, as I said in my presentation, the reason NATO was created. The rest of the articles deal with the mechanisms for political consultation, the way in which new members are admitted, etc. NATO was created just after World War II when democratic countries moved their economies, all their functioning from the wartime regime to peacetime, one of the winning countries, the Soviet Union, but not at that time. It was felt that a security vacuum was emerging in Europe. The Soviet Empire began to expand its sphere of influence in Eastern Europe and so a common defence was agreed, as promised by the UN Charter, which was adopted quite freshly. Since then, this point of joint protection has been repeated in the final declarations of all the alliance summits. Of course, it has been asked from time to time whether such a self-evident thing should be repeated in every final declaration. It is, in some ways, a ritual repetition, but the absence of it in one of the final declarations where it has always been would, in a strange way, stand in the eye and ask if anything has changed. So, of course, the entire NATO Treaty is in force and Article 5 is also in force, which has been highlighted in the final declarations as a very strong deterrent message.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U19	Thank you. Please, Maimu Berg!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U20	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! How do you assess the defence of Estonian citizens? Does it not seem that when we talk a great deal about NATO's strong alliance, it is like putting our people's fear of protection to rest? If so, how do you think it can be strengthened? And I put another question aside here: how do you feel about the intensive teaching of national defence in schools?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U21	Thank you. According to all surveys, the defence of Estonians and other Estonian citizens is strong. At the same time, of course, there have also been alternative questions, such as whether people would be prepared to leave Estonia in the event of a military conflict. These answers have also revealed a warning bill. The desire for protection is, of course, something that must be kept and nurtured constantly. It can be said that, as a rule, defence will be confirmed in the near-by regions, in our near-neighborhood crises. People rush to express their willingness to defend themselves by joining the Defence League in greater numbers than in more peaceful times. The presence of NATO allies on our soil should have a positive effect on the defence will of the Estonian people, rather than insomniac. The fact that the Allied units are here, training and practicing with our Defence Forces to learn to act together could also make the position of the active army more desirable and prestigious. It will certainly encourage those who want to participate voluntarily in national defence to contribute. As far as national defence teaching is concerned, it is up to me and the Ministry of Defence as a whole that national defence training should be available in all schools, all students should have the opportunity to learn it. At the same time, national defence education does not in any way replace military service in the Estonian Defence Forces, although it certainly creates good prerequisites for successful military service. Having talked to many national defence teachers over the last few months and also in national defence camps, I am convinced that if a student has studied national defence at school, he will have realistic expectations of military service, taking down some unjustified fears. Our studies show that young people who have learned national defence education go through the Defence Forces service more smoothly and successfully, their loss is smaller than those who have not. Should this become a compulsory subject in curricula, in this respect I would trust the informed opinion of the Ministry of Education and Research. It is clear that the pressure on curricula as a whole is quite high. The subjects that are required to be included in the curricula are other than the national defence education. But it should certainly be the case that no child who wants to study this subject at school would fail to do so because it is not offered at his or her school.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U22	Thank you. Please, Barbi Pilvre!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U23	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. In the light of the last meeting, how would you describe the relationship between Finland and Sweden and NATO? As we know, they signed the Host Nation Support Agreement at the summit, or the Host State Support Agreement. Can it be interpreted as a step towards NATO, or how?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U24	Finland and Sweden have been very close partners to NATO for many years. They have contributed significantly to NATO operations at different times. For more than ten years, when NATO was present in Afghanistan, they have been among the biggest contributors per capita. So the ability and experience of working with their alliance are very great. Now that the ISAF operation in Afghanistan is about to end, NATO has developed very close cooperation with quite a number of partners. At the summit, quite a number of formats were discussed on how to maintain and develop this experience in the best way possible. For example, in addition to the usual meeting of prime ministers and presidents in the ISAF format, there was also a meeting of defence ministers with 24 close partners who have contributed to the ISAF. There was also a separate meeting with five especially close "interoperabile partners," including Finland and Sweden. It is therefore clear that NATO allies are interested in keeping this link. Similarly, Finland and Sweden are also interested to maintain this link even after the connecting link in the form of an ISAF operation is no longer available. For well-known reasons, the ends are still loose in some ways and it is not known whether the ISAF follow-up operation will start or not. But even if it starts, and I expect it to start, and if Finland and Sweden contribute there, the scale will certainly be superbly smaller than the current ISAF mission. As far as the host country's support agreement is concerned, it is a framework agreement which, in itself, neither obliges nor in any way binds the hands of the parties to the agreement, but it is certainly important in terms of its meaning. The military accession or non-accession of Finland and Sweden is certainly their own sovereign decision. We know that this decision is influenced by many factors, including public opinion. But Estonia is certainly grateful to them for the support they have given Estonia at the time when we talked through our NATO membership and reached NATO, they were very supportive of us. We have both had very close bilateral cooperation and we would certainly be happy to welcome them as members of the Alliance one day, not just as partners. But it's a decision they have to make themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U25	Thank you. Please, Rein Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U26	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Thank you for this review and for the information. My question concerns cooperation. As we know, Article 4 of the NATO Basic Agreement states that consultations will be held in the Member States if there is a threat, and I think that the last NATO Summit confirmed that this article will work. But I have a question: if we call this year a year of crisis, how has NATO interacted, consulted and discussed situations in cooperation with the European Union and the OSCE?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U27	It is clear that each organisation has its own specifics. NATO is a military defence organisation, but at the same time it has a very large joint role in terms of membership of the European Union, a very large overlap. From Estonia's point of view, NATO should be the so-called first-choice organisation in any military crisis. At the same time, it is clear that there can be, and in real life, there will be operations where, as a NATO organisation, you cannot or do not want to be involved in regulating the crisis. For this reason, over the years, the European Union has established its own mechanisms for regulating crises. Among other things, the European Union has created its rapid response capabilities, which are European battle groups. At the same time, we know that despite the very long time of existence, battle groups have not actually been used for their original purposes. They have been used as tools for such a transformation or for practicing together rather than as real crisis regulators. In the case of real crises, the European Union has rather used this ad hoc force than the European Union, as an internal organisation, has decided to participate in the regulation of a crisis, for example in Africa, either in the Central African Republic or in Mali. As far as consultations and cooperation between the European Union and NATO are concerned, on the one hand, it is quite intense. The NATO meetings are attended by the high representatives of the European Union, the meeting of the defence ministers of the European Union, from which I returned yesterday, but also by NATO representatives. In this sense, the exchange of information is very close and efficient. At the same time, we know that the formalisation of this cooperation has been hindered by the small special part that these organisations have in terms of membership. The European Union is part of the Republic of Cyprus, and NATO is part of Turkey, and this has been one of the obstacles. Maybe it's not polite to say it out loud, but we all know that it's one of the stones behind which the formal development of cooperation is a little bit of a tone. But there are quite few obstacles to practical life.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U28	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U29	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. According to expert opinion, just 7% of the nuclear weapons on earth are enough to destroy all life on the planet. Five, six, or seven governments survive in their bunkers, but they hardly enjoy it very much. The only way to communicate is with cockroaches and rats. We've heard for a long time about this summit and the preparation for war. In today's world, where the lessons of the last century may have been forgotten, preparation for a global war is under way. Didn't you hear anything peaceful about this summit? Is there no program that would give us the hope that we will be able to live in peace for the next 10 to 20 years and in the long run?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U30	I share your concern about the dangers of nuclear weapons. A few days ago, I also read the news that discovering Higgs' boson would allow people to destroy the entire universe, not just the earth. These threats are certainly taken very seriously, and NATO's nuclear policy is a longer issue in itself. But when it comes to this summit and preparation or unpreparedness for war, as I said in my presentation, our desire is to prevent NATO from implementing Article 5. At the same time, we must certainly be prepared, both morally and materially, to use the article on collective defence. And in fact, this perceived willingness to actually protect allies under Article 5 is also the best way to prevent its use. That's the whole idea of deterrence. NATO, as I have already said in answering one question, has been brought to life in order to wage a defence war, if necessary, in order to protect the allied states that are under attack. NATO does not plan, does not practice operations aimed at the military attack on NATO's neighbours. I think it's key. Of course, everything that was said at the summit, everything that is said behind NATO's negotiating tables, is aimed at maintaining peace and stability in the Euro-Atlantic region, but more generally in the world. Unfortunately, in a world where we see stronger countries, regimes and also non-state actors who do not share our democratic values and whose aspirations are not aimed at maintaining peace and stability, the democratic world is capable of maintaining peace and stability in the best possible way, also having military capabilities that discourage any challenger.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U31	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U32	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Secretary of Defense! Estonia is moving towards broad-based national defence, and when we look at European countries, sometimes it seems that the greatest threat to security may be the economic dependence of European countries, such as energy, on Russia. In the light of broad-based national defence, will NATO also address these issues in its activities? Was this also discussed in the summit, or was there only a narrow focus on military activity?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U33	NATO is a military defence organisation, but of course NATO also has a significant political dimension. It is universally and unambiguously understandable that NATO's deterrence is also largely based on the fact that the challengers, potential aggressors, feel NATO politically united. At the same time, it is clear that one tactical move that states, as well as non-state actors, are using to weaken NATO is an attempt to divide NATO internally, and for this purpose, political and economic manipulations and operations, including those carried out by energy carriers, are also suitable alongside military provocations. This is what is being discussed behind NATO's negotiating tables. The answer can be a stronger and more effective common European Union energy policy, which takes steps to ensure adequate energy interconnections between Member States in order to diversify energy suppliers in order to ensure that no ally can be excluded from the supply chain alone and left in the cold and dark. I think that these real countermeasures that ensure that the allies are protected from non-military pressure measures are certainly better done through other organisations, such as the European Union. But yes, behind NATO's negotiating tables these issues and their possible implications for military security will be addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U34	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallemets!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U35	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. Thank you very much for your adequate theme setting after the NATO Summit and for the debate. I would like to highlight NATO's assistance to Ukraine. The Wales Summit promised that it would be comprehensive and take account of Ukraine's needs in four sub-areas, with a total of EUR 15 million being allocated by the various members. The assistance of President Poroshenko was mentioned by some Member States which provide different types of assistance to Ukraine. Is helping Ukraine in the field of defence something that is important to Estonia, and what should we bear in mind in this regard?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U36	This is certainly important to Estonia. The Department of Defense wishes to provide such very humane assistance. As early as this year, we hope to bring the first injured Ukrainian armed forces fighters to Sel's Health Centre for treatment, and this assistance must certainly continue next year. As far as other material assistance is concerned, we are now drawing up an overview of what opportunities we have, what we can actually offer, what Ukraine could benefit from. So far, so-called non-lethal assistance has been preferred. Ukraine itself has a significant defence industry. Just as a reminder, Estonia has, as I recall, participated in a trust fund aimed at helping Ukraine to rid itself of excess ammunition and explosives. There are a whole series of articles about everything that the Ukrainian armed forces are not lacking at all, but at the same time the country's economy is on rather fragile feet. But autumn and winter knock on the door. So Ukraine's aid, with large-scale help to cope, certainly needs to be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U37	Thank you. Please, Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U38	President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Minister of Defence! Like all NATO summits, the Wales Summit ended with the adoption of a comprehensive final declaration. Instead of a regular 50-60 chapter, it contained even 104 chapters. Russia also found an in-depth discussion. NATO-Russian relations are on a new footing, Russia has been called an opponent. What do you think that means, Secretary of Defense, more specifically?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U39	Well, in a way, that means face to face. NATO made considerable efforts after the end of the Cold War to help democratise the side of the Cold War. Among other things, efforts were made to create opportunities for the establishment of the principles of democratic control of armed forces. At political level, this process reached a certain culmination in 1997, when the NATO-Russian Treaty was concluded, which laid the foundations for a cooperation format such as the NATO-Russian Council. Let's just say that since Vladimir Putin became president, Russian political leaders have increasingly viewed NATO as an opponent, not as a partner, in their rhetoric. The NATO Member States, and quite a number of them for quite a long time, were somewhat overlooking it and were hoping that a good word would win a foreign force. At the same time, anti-Ukraine aggression, especially when viewed against the backdrop of the 2008 war against Georgia, shows that not only in words but also in actions, the current Russian regime is increasingly opposed to NATO and the principles of international law from which the democratic world is founded. It has now been reflected in the final declaration of the summit, including the fact that Russia has violated not only the principles of international law, but also the agreement concluded in 1997 on the basis of NATO-Russia.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U40	Please, Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U41	Thank you! Good minister! In your report, you mentioned the NATO Rapid Response Teams. So far, however, we have heard nothing about the time frame. Do you have anything to add to that? And secondly, Rasmussen said in Wales about the arrival of these units that it could be a matter of days. When we look at the events in Crimea, it was hours, not days. My question is as follows. Do you think NATO will be able to reach an agreement on the shortest possible time for the arrival of a NATO fire truck? If a fire breaks out somewhere, when can it be extinguished?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U42	That is a very good question, but there is no detailed answer to it at this point in time. Indeed, such a circa 4000-man very quick response readiness unit, how to say, such a readiness force at the tip of the iceberg should be created in the near future. The various Member States have already declared their willingness to contribute to this, including through the mouth of their Prime Minister, the host country of the summit, Great Britain. I hope this unit can be established quickly. One question, of course, is the format for political decision-making. It is clear that certain operational control of this unit must go to NATO commanders. Otherwise, if such a normal political decision-making process is implemented, it will somewhat hinder the rapid use of this entity. It must have been General Jones who, when setting up the NRF, the NATO Rapid Response Force, said the sooner this unit was ready to react, the better. Every extra day costs something. For example, a five-day readiness to establish and maintain an entity is only worthwhile if there is also a real political decision-making mechanism that ensures that a decision on the use of this power can be made so quickly. Of course, the pre-warning period has basically decreased to zero. This not only means that we need to be prepared to react very quickly with this redeployable Rapid Response Unit, but also that we need to be proactively present with both allies and their equipment. This also means that our advance warning must be much stronger. It is clear that during the years of the Cold War, especially at a time when NATO was present in Afghanistan with very large troops, the intelligence capacity of these so-called censors was focused on other regions of the world. Of course, you can't really turn away from the Middle East right now, but the situational awareness of what's going on in Russia must be much better. We know that Russia has carried out rapid mobilisation exercises, has very quickly relocated its units from one region to another under the training label. This certainly requires that our picture of the situation, our picture of the movement of troops, must be significantly better than it was, for example, a year or two ago. And the awareness of it has come to light. Work to fill this gap is going very quickly and efficiently. This 'zero', of course, doesn't mean that everything happens in an instant, but it does happen very quickly. And that is why it is certainly important that the response time of this Very High Readiness Joint Task Force is measurable in hours. It's 48 or 72 hours, it's a question of detail, but we're certainly not talking about weeks and months that were discussed right after the end of the Cold War. Now we're talking about classes, worse times than days. Another thing I also focused on in my presentation is the creation of a headquarters. We know that the higher the readiness NATO units are, for example, the same northeast corps, which is also our corps, and whose framework states are Germany, Denmark and Poland, the better. However, their readiness to react quickly depends on how well manned their staff is in normal times, during peacetime. And all these countries have committed themselves to much better manning this headquarters. This was, in fact, one of the points of the preparedness action plan in order to significantly improve not only the readiness of such an entity in English, but also the readiness of other entities in the alliance.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U43	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U44	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. I have a very specific question that you can only answer in two words. In answering my first question, you said about three times that NATO was designed to protect the allies. Very noble. But tell me, please, in the case of Yugoslavia, for example, who did NATO defend when it bombed Belgrade and other cities? Name an ally who was protected! And, for example, in Iraq, who was protected by NATO when it started a war that killed half a million civilians?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U45	I do not see how this question can be answered in two words. Fortunately, the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act provides an opportunity to respond a little longer. As far as Iraq is concerned, Iraq was not a NATO operation, so I will not go further in the context of the debate on the outcome of the NATO summit. As far as Kosovo is concerned, after the end of the Cold War, NATO declared its three key functions, including, in addition to the collective protection of the allies, crisis management. In the case of Kosovo, humanitarianly motivated intervention was triggered. It was a serious humanitarian crisis, one can say, even ethnic cleansing. So in Kosovo NATO decided to intervene to protect the people of Kosovo. Yes, indeed, it was not a NATO Member State; at that time it was not at all an independent state. But in order to avoid major civilian casualties, this intervention was necessary. Just as the European Union has considered it necessary to intervene in the Central African Republic in order to prevent genocide. It is true that such humanely motivated interference with ethnic or religious violence is perhaps inadequately regulated in international law, but it is once again a matter separate from the NATO Summit. When we talk about protecting Estonia from military threats, we are talking about protecting a NATO Member State, as provided for in Article 5 of the NATO Treaty, and as the UN Charter clearly and unambiguously promises. Does international law need to be improved and improved in some respects? He probably would, because to a very large extent, current international law reflects the reality and world order of 1945. But that was not the purpose of this NATO summit.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U46	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U47	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Secretary of Defense! I do not know what exactly the division of labour between NATO and the European Union is, but I hope that the summit in Wales also discussed the arms supply and arms cooperation of NATO Member States with the Russian Federation. Hopefully, the sanctions currently being prepared by the European Union will apply and cooperation in the field of arms will be limited. Was this subject discussed in Wales with a view specifically to the supply of Mistral ships and related technology? This is equally worrying. It is very strange for a NATO Member State to arm an immediate aggressor.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U48	I undoubtedly agree that it is exceptionally inappropriate for NATO Member States to supply weapons systems, and especially such complex and expensive weapons systems, to a country that is engaged in aggression against its neighbouring country. As regards the supply of the Mistrals, this issue was taken off the agenda somewhat thanks to France's decision to postpone the delivery of the first vessel. It is likely that this issue will rise again on the table in the near future. We know that some NATO Member States have abandoned the supply of military technologies to Russia following the outbreak of the conflict in Ukraine. France has only postponed this in the case of Mistrals. From Estonia's point of view, this is certainly a long-term change in the security environment. Even if the current ceasefire in Eastern Ukraine should persist, the fact that Crimea has still been annexed, that the territorial integrity of Ukraine has not been restored, it should be sufficient for a NATO Member State to refuse to supply military systems to Russia. I totally agree with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U49	Please, Marianne Mikko, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U50	Thank you very much. How does the Minister of Defence comment on the criticism that some media publications have made that the final declaration of the Wales Summit has the meaning of our presence, or NATO, in relation to the countries of Eastern Europe, inside is the point of prepositioning and planning, but there is no point in military bases? Why could Estonia not force military bases into it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U51	If we look at the air base of Ämari, which was built, using quite a large part of NATO's security investment programme, and where the Danish Air Force of the Allied State has just carried out the Baltic air security, now the German Air Force, and the Spanish from the beginning of next year, it is a NATO base in all respects. As far as the constantly rotating presence is concerned, the more units of allies who are present on Estonia's territory are conducting their training here, gaining experience of cooperation with the Estonian Defence Forces, the Estonian Defence Forces, as well as the situation in Estonia, how the Allied troops are received in the event of a crisis, how they are hosted and organized, the better protected we should feel. We certainly have no reason to desire a return to the attitude of the Cold War, where NATO's presence meant heavy, static, very large units. I believe that today's security environment requires a much more flexible presence, lighter but certainly no less painful biting forces.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U52	Thank you. Please, Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U53	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, The issues of national security are clearly very much intertwined with the economic interests of the countries. Last night, news came late that the European Union postponed the decision on another timing of sanctions against Russia. Today, I think we are trying to continue the debate. We have talked today about arms deals, we have also heard of the fear of some countries that Russia will close its airspace, or whatever. Is there a difference of opinion between the military and NATO levels? The economic interests of the countries are currently actually colliding.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U54	Of course, international diplomacy is never easy even between allies and the partners of the European Union. Nor is it the kind of work you do once and then you can bask on the agreement you have reached forever. It is clear that security, including the creation, maintenance and deepening of allies' solidarity, must be dealt with again every morning when we wake up. We have used, I think, in the best way, the window of time that opened up to us after the shock and recognition which struck the allies after Russia's aggression against Ukraine. We have concluded from all of this quite a lot that will ensure our own security in the long term. However, it is clear that the current Russian regime is trying to divide the allies by using various political and economic techniques and instruments, including those related to energy carriers. Of course, it is up to us collectively to confront such moves in an effort to reduce our vulnerability. In certain areas it is easier, in certain areas it is more complex. We also need to be very clear about what this is about the loss of unity that NATO and the entire international community are actually risking if we let the security structure of today's Europe be destroyed. It is natural that if the hot phase of the conflict is left behind, this feeling and shared breathing can diminish. It is up to us to preserve this sense of danger and to help the capitals of the Allied States to realise that this is a long-term change.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U55	Thank you very much, Minister. Our questions and answers are exhausted. Let's get to the negotiations. Please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Marianne Mikko.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U56	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, It is true that Estonia's security has never been as well protected as following the visit of the President of the United States, Barack Obama, to Tallinn and especially after the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO) in Wales. Time three to five. September, three days in 2014, could be considered as historical days that our descendants could remember. 22 years ago, French President François Mitterrand, suffering from stage IV cancer, made a state visit to the re-independence Republic of Estonia. It was no coincidence that in the spring of 1992 the leader of France visited Estonia. The significance of that public visit was symbolic. After all, France was one of the founding fathers of the European Coal and Steel Community and one of the two leading countries of the European Union. The French President respected Estonia with his arrival to give an unambiguous signal: our country is expected to be among the democratic powers of the free European market economy. We have been a Member State of the European Union for ten years now. For ten years we have also been a member of NATO. While Estonia was very welcome to the European Union, many countries had doubts about NATO. The same old hesitancy as any Estonian who knows that Russia does not know what Russia would think. Are you sure it's worth pissing off the Kremlin? Are the Baltic States really protected? With the first impetus, at the NATO Madrid Summit in 1997, Estonia, like Visegrád, was not invited to join the alliances of the Czech Republic, Hungary and Poland. Far from it. The final declaration of the Madrid Summit will make us very attractive at all. The will of the Baltic countries to establish relations with Russia if not friends, then at least a strategic partnership, which, as the Minister of Defence said, resulted in the NATO-Russia Council, was so great that the name of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania in the final document of the NATO Summit was just as inappropriate. If it had not been for Nordic countries, especially Iceland's determination, it might have happened that even the construction of the 'Baltic region' would have been excluded from the final declaration of the Madrid Summit. But enough historical truth! Before the NATO Wales Summit in spring 2014, the Alliance had reached the bitter point that the partnership with Russia had become a memory. Following the annexation of Crimea and the aggression in Ukraine, both NATO's civilian and military wing leaders call Russia an opponent. The next term could be "enemy," which would mean war at the same time. NATO, as we know, is a defence organisation, not an attack organisation, and that is what our defence minister, Sven Mikser, referred to. NATO headquarters has been repeatedly stressed and the world has been told that we are friendly to Russia, but also that, if necessary, the attacker will receive a lesson from NATO that he will never wish to repeat. Article 5 still means that it is remembered over and over again that, having attacked a member state of the alliance, the attacker will be counterattacked by NATO as a whole. The article on collective defence was called unbreakable and eternal by US President Barack Obama here in Tallinn. That is what the logic of NATO is based on. Article 5 is a firm principle; no one should doubt that. The visit of the President of the United States of America, who visited Tallinn on the eve of the Wales Summit, must not be underestimated or overestimated. The reality is that the gift of the president of the world's most militaryly powerful country, in the form of a training center for Ämar, gives us clear knowledge and deep confidence that the ally forces will continue to be present. For those whose main concern is the existence of NATO bases, I say that continuing presence means exactly what ordinary citizens understand under the bases. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U57	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U58	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! It is known that by the end of this year, Russia will draw up a new doctrine of its own and it is understandable that NATO must respond somehow. You could say that the tension in relationships is only increasing. Here's the question. Estonia is a neighbouring country of Russia and this tension will affect Estonia as well. Have you written down its effects, its dangers and its problems in any way? Is it written whether or not there are opportunities for Estonia to continue living under such pressure?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U59	It is certainly wise in politics to try to distort the negative processes that we can distort and to adapt to those that we cannot wrong alone. Of course, Estonia's preference would have been for Russia not to have carried out the annexation of Crimea, not to have carried out aggression against the whole of Ukraine, and the tensions in our region would not have increased. Unfortunately, we did not have the power to prevent all of this, and we must now live in a world like it is after the annexation of Crimea and the aggression against Ukraine. Speaking specifically about the Defence Forces and the administration of the Ministry of Defence, of course, any national defence planning begins with a threat assessment. The military capabilities we create, develop and maintain depend on how we see the dangers that lie ahead of us. This has been the case, and it will certainly be the case in the future. It can be said that, as a NATO Member State, we need to make dramatic changes somewhat less than some of the larger Member States, because we were somewhat better able to anticipate, in our risk assessments, the long-term political or doctrinal changes that have taken place in the Kremlin, rather than entirely, but somewhat better. Let's just say we prefer to live in a better and more peaceful world. There were certainly illusions in Europe and NATO Member States that such a fukuyamalik's end of history was at hand, liberal values had reached a final victory, and democracy was moving from one victory to another. They were known in the 1990s and, to some extent, in the early 2000s. It is now clear that one way or another is to stand up for this. Money, time, and strength must be contributed to it. And what's there to deny, sometimes lives. However, coming back to the question, I repeat that all military planning begins with threat assessments, while threat assessments are not fully public documents for obvious reasons. However, these are the starting points from which all planning begins.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U60	Thank you. Please, Jaak Allik, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U61	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Can you explain to a person with common sense why the costs of protecting the Estonian border, i.e. protecting the external borders of the European Union, do not fall under the protection costs of Estonia? And, in view of current developments, should we not talk about military border protection rather than police and critically view decisions made in the meantime?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U62	If the issue is targeted at defence expenditure at 2% of GDP, in order to allow Member States' contributions to be compared and to say whether one or the other Member State really contributes 2% of GDP to national defence, NATO has a very precise classification. This does not mean that other expenditure may not be financed from the budget of the Ministry of Defence. Certainly sports clubs and trumpet choir can also be financed from the Ministry of Defence's budget, but we will certainly not sell our NATO allies to the claim that this is also the cost of defence. Whether the border guard is built on a military or non-military basis, whether it is a civil structure or not, is a matter of its own. The question of protecting and guarding the border was, of course, particularly acutely raised in the context of this event, which concerns the violent transfer of an Estonian defence police officer from the territory of Estonia to Russia and detention there. But, as you have certainly been able to read from public sources, this was a defense officer who, in the course of his work, was involved in cross-border customs corruption and smuggling and, in order for him to be able to meet his contact near the border, a window was created. This is not a systemic error in guarding the Estonian border, but rather a gross disregard of all written and unwritten norms and rules by the special services of the other side.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U63	Thank you. Please, Igor Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U64	In view of what has happened recently, I am thinking in Ukraine in particular, there has certainly been a great deal of talk in Wales about what has been done in Europe over the last 20 years, which has gone right, which has gone wrong. In this regard, I am concerned whether any assessment was made, whether or not ex post, of the 1994 Budapest Memorandum, which resulted in the withdrawal of nuclear weapons from Ukraine? If Ukraine were a nuclear power now, and if Belarus were a nuclear power now, Europe would look much calmer, much more beautiful, much safer. Did that conclusion at least sound there? The full demilitarisation of Ukraine and the making of promises actually created such a situation. At present, even outside Europe, no country dares to believe any promises at all; this memorandum has been run over so coldly.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U65	The Budapest Memorandum was not specifically discussed at the NATO summit, as far as I know, but there has been a great deal of talk about it elsewhere since the onset of the Ukrainian crisis. I do not think anyone would say that the lesson is that Ukraine should have kept its nuclear weapon. It is true, however, that this is one of the international agreements that Russia has broken exceptionally badly. For indeed both Russia and the other signatory states of the United States, Great Britain, committed themselves to respect the territorial integrity of Ukraine, committed themselves to respect Ukraine's sovereignty and independence, committed themselves not to exert political and economic pressure on Ukraine. I believe that this last principle was violated by Russia much earlier, long before the current conflict broke out. I share your concern about the wider international outcomes. This will certainly also affect future and ongoing negotiations with different countries in the world so that they do not acquire or own nuclear weapons. The assurances given to them in the case of the abandonment of nuclear ambition will be much more hollow after Russia has broken its promises in the case of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U66	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallemets, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U67	So we have received confirmation from the NATO Summit in Wales that the Allies will accept our 'three P' requirements. The final document of the Wales Summit guarantees both the pre-operation and pre-positioning, as well as planning and planning planning. And not at the end of the text, but in the first chapters of an important document of 104 articles. Wales laid down a strong deterrent, and that's a very strong word, friends. As the Minister of Defence spoke in his presentation, the subject of cyberattack was so important and painful for Estonia at the summit in Wales as well. Responding to cyber attacks is part of NATO's collective defence, but the implementation of Article 5 will be decided by NATO on a case-by-case basis in each cyber attack. For Estonia, as for Latvia, Lithuania and Poland, it is crucial that leaders of the 28 allies in Wales confirmed their willingness to create VHRJTF, Very High Readiness Joint Task Force. This NATO's very high-ready response team will be able to gather for up to 48 hours. This unit lands and lands on NATO's eastern border to a country where it is waiting for pre-positioned equipment and supports infrastructure, and does what is called the best defence in the world. Ladies and gentlemen! This unit has been set up seven days ago. As I began my speech on behalf of the Social Democrats, I will conclude: Estonia's security is better guaranteed than ever before. Estonia's independence is unwavering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U68	Thank you. Please, on behalf of the Group of the Urmas Reinsalu Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U69	Honourable Riigikogu! The results of the NATO summit were good, bearing in mind NATO's collective defence. This is also from Estonia's point of view. The subject with which the previous speaker ended the creation of a super-speed response element with a long name, within the framework of the NRF, is very important. This is a concrete step in order for NATO to be able to act quickly in other ways than at the current level of the NRF format. I believe that our vital interest is that a super-speed response element can achieve the necessary capabilities without delay, and Estonia should certainly consider how to contribute to this. The second issue is the re-evaluation of NATO's plans on the basis of the block's ability to react more quickly in the implementation of collective defence. Since joining NATO, this reaction to Estonia has been very important and the summit in Wales also gave political assurance that these plans will really be reviewed. Thirdly, the collective defence exercises are complementary. It is in our interest that the supplementary collective protection exercise plan should specifically address the so-called hybrid hazard scenario, and that these exercises should be based on the scenario launched with a very short advance warning period. The development of the Ämari base as an air force training centre is very positive news. Our interest is that it will be implemented without delay and the decision to place pre-positioned equipment for allies on the territory of the Republic of Estonia will also be implemented. These political decisions must be furnished as soon as possible and I hope that it will be implemented in the next few months. As far as the crisis in Ukraine is concerned, NATO has taken a clear, unambiguous political stance, but the reality is that for several months the response of the Western world has not put the aggressor in order. Aggressor has been encouraged to take further steps. The ceasefire by Russia is certainly a tactical solution and we are facing two possible scenarios. Firstly, as we see from the ongoing incidents of ceasefire violations, there is, on the one hand, the risk that Russia is not interested in a ceasefire in the short term, but wishes to provoke Ukraine to stronger countermeasures. That is what happened at the beginning of the Georgian war. Secondly, if a ceasefire develops into a frozen conflict, it cannot under any circumstances be a solution to the crisis in Ukraine. The Transnistrian scenario would appear. In the wake of the crisis in Ukraine, the Welsh Summit was about an issue which has been discussed for a long time and which has been before the international community as a choice, that is the issue of arms aid to Ukraine. When Senator McCain visited Estonia in the spring of this year, he called for this. Then there was a general international response to his call for a view that the provision of arms assistance to Ukraine was dangerous. This poses an additional threat to Russia's invasion of Ukraine. We can see that a few months have passed, and the lack of arms assistance has not reduced this threat of invasion, but this invasion has actually taken place.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U70	Three more minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U71	Yes, I would.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U72	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U73	So, weapons aid is necessary. And arms aid must not only be seen as military support; it also has a huge political deterrent effect on Russia. Now a little bit of the contributions of NATO Member States, of this 2%. A political declaration was adopted. I am concerned that countries will be able to formulate this political declaration. Estonia must be among the countries that have a positive influence on its partners here. I am pleased that the Minister of Defence stressed that this 2% threshold must be a consensual minimum objective for all Estonian political parties, both in bad times and in good times, for contributing to national defence. The NATO Summit is primarily about collective protection and we received a positive message from it in order to move forward. But we also have homework to do, which is to develop our own defence capabilities. I think the starting point is that we should not only reduce this debate to the debate on percentages. The question is, what is the military capacity enough for us to face the enemy with our allies? Our debate on the future of national defence must be based primarily on military advice. If necessary, we must be able to implement the military part of the National Defence Development Plan more quickly. I call on all political forces to consider whether, before the elections of the Riigikogu, we should conclude a national defence agreement concerning the development of military capabilities based on military advice, the starting point of which is that we must contribute as much as is necessary to ensure that we have effective additional military capabilities. As regards the permanent presence of our allies, our far-reaching vision must be clear and unambiguous. The steps that have been taken are good. Our strongest deterrent shield is certainly the constant presence of allies in the form of their units in the Baltic States, including Estonia. This work and keeping it in line must not end now, after Wales. Wales was one chapter in NATO's history, but not the final chapter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U74	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The debate on the first item on our agenda today is exhausted. Thank you very much, everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U75	Our second item is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Health Insurance Act initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group. I ask Viktor Vassilyev, Member of the Riigikogu, to present a speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U76	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour and duty to present to you Bill No 656 'Law amending the Law on Ravikindlustus', the text of which you have before you. But there's no need to read it out here. The Health Insurance Act proposes the following changes: First, Paragraph 63 (3) is amended and worded as follows: 'The Health Insurance Fund compensates the person who has been granted a disability pension or old-age pension under the State Pension Insurance Act and the insured person over the age of 63, once every three years, the amount paid for dental prostheses and dental care is determined by the regulation of the Minister of Social Affairs. ' And second: § 2 on the entry into force of the Act: 'This Act shall enter into force on 1 January 2015. " The Centre Party is the author of this draft. Let me explain this a little bit. Under the current regime, dental care services are reimbursed to young people up to 19 years of age at 19.18 euros per year. Then people will have many years of dental care for their money and pensioners will be paid prostheses of EUR 255.65 every three years. When the concept of dental care was put in place about 12 years ago, it was put together with a good official's mind and very simply to fit into the PowerPoint, where all things seem very simple. The concept was then very logical: children up to the age of 19 will have teeth repaired at the expense of the state, and that means that in adulthood, their predators will be well and well. That's how they live with their teeth until they retire. They retire and get prostheses at the expense of the state. Very good! But somehow it has been completely neglected, I would say not even one generation, but two generations. It is the case that middle - aged people have the greatest dental problems in our society. They have the most expensive treatment: treatment of destructive teeth, root treatment, root cleansing, treatment of crowns of teeth. It's not cheap. And if anatomically, a person should have 32 teeth, I think that if someone counted how many middle Estonians have their own teeth in their mouths, it's probably 16 in the middle. If you look around the street, we can see that the national smile of the Estonian is a smile with a closed mouth, because it wouldn't be very nice to show anything from that open mouth. But, of course, everything depends on a person's income. Interestingly, no one has done a very simple study, such as income deciles, of how many teeth there are in the mouth. Since there are many more poor people in Estonia than there are rich people, I think the average number of teeth in the country is quite small. I'm not going to explain to you that teeth are very important to the body's part and health. You all know that. Obviously, there is no human who would not have felt toothache in his life. The teeth can be derived from a wide range of diseases ♪ not only from stomach ulcers, but also from systemic diseases, metabolic disorders and any kind of disorder. But teeth also have a certain social dimension. A person who has no teeth in his mouth has a very difficult time competing in the labour market. If a person has two teeth in three rows, he can compete in the labour market food chain only at the lowest level. If there are no teeth in your mouth, how do you eat others in the food chain? And sometimes they are also accused of: that those people who are now 50 to 60 years old have been treating their teeth during the counseling period, and then it was the quality of the council period. Hey, that quality wasn't so bad! But it has to be taken into account that everything is changing, and technology is changing. A person aged 55 to 65 has lived through the development of all this technology while treating his teeth. New materials, new instruments, new technologies. It could be likened to the number of tablets per 100 people in Estonia at the end of the Soviet era. They just didn't exist! It has so far been the case with this bill that in the spring we turned him in and, of course, the Ministry of Social Affairs had to write an opinion on it. The good officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs looked at the draft that came from the opposition, apparently something must be moved, and wrote a quick reply. This answer is also written in spring. In this response, I'm not going to read it out. There are basically four points. In the first point, the Ministry of Social Affairs claims that the Health Insurance Fund is planning to carry out an analysis of the principles governing the payment of dental care benefits, on the basis of which it is possible to decide whether to plan changes. It's been a while, isn't it? This answer is written in May, we now have September and, by the way, these analyses are done. I've already heard them reported twice. So very thorough analyses have been carried out, three payment options have been proposed. So this job is done, and now it is the case that if the Health Insurance Fund, which is headed by the Council's Minister for Health and Labour, decides which option is appropriate, then the Ministry of Social Affairs, which is run by the same Minister for Health and Labour, who also runs the Health Insurance Fund, will go. If the option is adopted at the Health Insurance Fund, it will probably go on to the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Minister's regulation will be made just as the Social Security Minister's regulation is mentioned in our bill and the conditions and procedures will be put in place. So this work has already been done on a large scale. Very good! The Ministry of Social Affairs also notes in its reply that our draft explanatory memorandum has an estimated impact on the state budget of EUR 10.8 million per year, according to the Ministry, it should be EUR 13.6 million per year. I have to admit it's a mistake. Yes, indeed, there is one advisor in the group for four political group members, and we calculated how we knew how, and we did not have all the data in our hands. But whether it's 10.8 million or 13.6 million was done by the Ministry for more accurate calculations, we didn't mess up much. It's pretty much the right amount. So, thanks to the Ministry, they've already done the job! But I don't know what they're arguing about. The third point in the answer is a little weird. They say that if we leave this dental benefit and start treating pensioners for prosthetic money as well, people will start treating their teeth. Such an accusation. I don't understand that logic now. The goal is that people treat their teeth rather than wait until everyone falls out of their mouths to get cheap pieces of plastic in their mouths. There's nothing decent about that for 250 euros. But something like the television commercial where these dogs show their funny prosthetics can. That logic is a little hard to understand. At the same time, the Ministry admits that when money is given, people start treating their teeth. Well, that's great! In my opinion, the purpose of the Ministry of Social Affairs, at least this health department, is for people to heal themselves, be healthier and happier, and can also smile like a civilized person, not with a closed mouth. In the last point of his reply, the Ministry of Social Affairs argues that the draft does not assess its impact on the health insurance budget. Indeed, but neither the group has the power to carry out an accurate financial analysis. That is why we wrote in our bill that insured persons over 63 years of age, disability pensioners and old-age pensioners are compensated for the amount of dental care paid at the rate, under the conditions and in accordance with the rules laid down by the Minister of Social Affairs. So once again, the Ministry and the Health Insurance Fund have done much of the work they need. I have this feeling that the bill is a very sensible option in the form we propose. Why do you offer pensioners crown teeth at the expense of the state when he still has teeth that need treatment? With the same money, you could cure your teeth. This would be more reasonable for people and, in fact, cost-effective, given the budget of the Health Insurance Fund. The more people have their teeth, the healthier they are, the less they suffer from certain diseases, the less they spend their money. Our draft states that more precise regulations will be introduced by a minister's regulation. This ministerial regulation is practically already in place, the data is just a little spread along the Health Insurance Fund and the Ministry departments. All we have to do is put them together, and there we have them. You see, usually in the case of laws where there is some power of attorney, it is the case that the law is adopted in the Riigikogu and after that the Minister's regulation will be worked on in the Ministry. In this case, more than half of the road has already been completed, the Minister's regulation is almost ready, but we are still debating the law here. I would say that it makes sense to adopt this law as soon as possible, but the Minister's regulation will also be made and people's lives will be easier. Because, yeah, life without teeth, it's not life or anything. The age of a horse is assessed by its teeth, but man is not a horse. There are many different kinds of people. If we make the decision on dental benefits political now, see, the Centre Party will take care of its constituents, the supporters of the Centre Party will have their teeth in their mouths before the elections! You'll be very sad. Dear people! Everyone's got a toothache. If we all voted in favour of this draft in agreement with the four political groups, we would support not only the voters of the Centre Party, but also the voters of the IRL and Reform Party. And even the voters of the Social Democratic Party would get proper teeth in their mouths. Let the party be on them, let them smile too! So, in my opinion, it would be very sensible if, in consensus, we supported this draft and adopted it as a matter of urgency. Then good ministerial officials would prepare the text of the regulation for the minister, which would be adopted and make life much easier for all Estonian people. I thank you and hope for support for this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U77	Thank you. Please, Heljo Pikhof's question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U78	Thank you. Dear waitress, I thank you very much for your thorough presentation and your passionate performance. But I have a question. Once every three years, dental prosthetic money You've also proposed dental treatment once every three years. Have you thought about it so that a person can use this 255 euros in three years, not once in three years? After all, it forces a person to wait if he can spend the 255 euros at a time, otherwise some money will not be used.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U79	Thank you for your question. It is exactly the same as it is now when a person does not have to wait with prosthetic money when he is made a prosthetic for exactly 255 euros. It can use this money in instalments for three years, and it could also be used in parts to treat teeth.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U80	Thank you very much. Heljo Pikhofi has another question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U81	Thank you. I read this passage: '... once every three years, the amount paid for dental prostheses and dental care services shall be determined, subject to conditions and in accordance with the rules laid down by the Minister of Social Affairs. ' Once every three years, the amount of dental care can be used, that is the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U82	Once every three years means that the entire amount is set once every three years, but exactly how it is used, I will read to you once again: the determination, the conditions and the procedure established by the regulation of the Minister of Social Affairs. The decree of the Minister for Social Affairs provides more precisely how this money is paid and how these amounts are transferred to dental doctors or patients. But it makes sense that this 255 euro is used in the same way as the current prosthetic money. After all, this is the same support, and just as a prosthetic allowance can be used in parts for three years, just as a dental benefit would be. In the case of prosthetics, too, many people allow the existing prosthetics to be slightly repaired. If another tooth has decided to leave its mouth, then you need a replacement. Even now, it is not up to a man to wait three years until exactly 255 euros of teeth fall out of his mouth. I believe you, too, do not doubt that our Minister for Health and Labour is a reasonable person or otherwise he would not have been appointed, and Mrs. Social Protection is also a reasonable person. I dare assure you, and you yourself know that you have worked in the Ministry of Social Affairs, that there are reasonable people there. They'll put this order in place wisely.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U83	Thank you very much. No further questions for you. I would like to address the Chair of the Social Affairs Committee, Heljo Pikhofi.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U84	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Let me talk a little bit about the discussions that took place in the Committee on Social Affairs. The Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft law amending the Health Insurance Act initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group at its meetings on 17 June and 8 September. At its meeting on 8 September, Viktor Vassilyev, Member of the Social Affairs Committee, presented the draft. The government's position was presented by Ülle Jordan, chief health specialist at the Ministry of Social Affairs. At its meeting on 21 May, the Government decided not to support this draft for the following reasons. The Estonian Health Insurance Fund is planning to carry out an analysis of the principles for the payment of dental benefits this year, which allows you to decide how to plan changes. It is not appropriate to change the current procedure before the results of the analysis and the proposals made by the Health Insurance Fund are available. The possibilities for extending dental care benefits depend on the health insurance income base and the Health Insurance Fund analyses the principles of financing dental care and preventive work available to Estonian residents from the health insurance budget and prepares amendments. As the previous speaker has already said, the draft explanatory memorandum estimates the impact on the state budget for next year at 10.8 million euros; the Estonian Health Insurance Fund estimates the impact to be higher, 13.8 million euros. If dental care services are provided at the rate of compensation for dental prostheses, this amount is EUR 255.65, the need for the patient's own participation will be removed. Therefore, cost planning should take into account the possibility of full use of the compensation rate over a three-year limit period. Based on the statistics of previous years, the Health Insurance Fund estimates that the cost of dental prosthetic benefits would be 23% of the target group, i.e. old age and disability pensioners. The target group of over 63-year-olds has 364700 persons, making it worth EUR 21444178 in 2014. In this year's health insurance budget, EUR 7795000 is planned for dental prosthetic compensation. The use of dental prosthetic compensation to pay for all dental care services certainly motivates people to use dental care more than has been the case so that the real impact on the health insurance budget may be much greater. The Social Affairs Committee discussed the availability of dental care at its public meeting on 9 September. Representatives of dentists, oral hygieneists, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Estonian Health Insurance Fund were invited to the meeting. During the meeting, Triin Habicht, Head of Health Department of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, made a thorough presentation. He took stock of a survey on financing dental care in other countries carried out by the University of Tartu Centre for Applied Social Sciences. He introduced ways of improving the prevention of children's dental and dental diseases, as well as the development of funding for adults' dental care. The previous speaker has already spoken of various options, but I repeat what the health insurance representative has pointed out. The rapporteur introduced the possibility of more compensation for adult dental care. Scenario 1: dental care allowance of 30 euros per year for all adults, the framework for the payment of dental prosthetic benefits would remain the same. In this case, the estimated budget impact would be EUR 14 million per year. Another option is to pay all adults a dental allowance of 30 euros per year, with the possibility of using it flexibly for two years, while the framework for dental care compensation would remain the same. The estimated budgetary impact would be EUR 14 million in the first year and the second would be likely to double. The third option is to pay all adults a dental benefit of 30 euros per year and to give pensioners the possibility to use a dental prosthetic allowance limit for all dental care services. Its estimated budgetary impact would be EUR 21 million per year. There is also the fourth option: compensation based on the same principles as for dental care for children, but a certain percentage of ownership would apply. The budgetary impact would then depend on the principles of implementation. Taavo Seedre, Member of the Board of the Estonian Association of Dentists, expressed the opinion that adult dental care could be compensated on the basis of a price list established by the government and that this price list should be based on the cost of services. President of the Estonian Union of Oral Hygieneists Marju Luht expressed the opinion that the quality of the work of oral hygieneists has a direct impact on the end result of dental care, but the specialty of oral hygieneists has not yet been regulated. Procedures for oral hygiene should be classified as health care and the speciality of oral hygiene should be included in the register of health professionals. Silvia Russak, a member of the Dentists' Association Council, spoke about problems in the prevention and treatment of dental diseases in children. The summary of his story was that the availability of dental care in Estonia is generally good for children, but the number of dentists who agree to treat their children's teeth has decreased over the years because the prices of treatment services are not cost-oriented. At its last meeting, the Committee on Social Affairs decided by consensus on the draft: to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 11 September, to propose that the first reading be closed, to set a deadline of 10 working days for amendments and to appoint Mr Pikhof, chair of the Committee on Social Affairs as rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U85	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U86	Thank you. Good waitress! You have focused your speech on another sitting. Our draft was discussed in a completely different session. You spent most of your time redefining this sitting, but it is not on the agenda today. You should have talked about our draft, which was exactly what happened in this debate. In general, it is clear that this is a good draft. After all, the Estonian Dental Association and everyone else supported the idea that prosthetic money would also go to dental care. Only the Ministry opposed it. They said there's no way it could be done. You, on the other hand, left the bill in the process. The Health Insurance Fund also said in public sessions that there is no money for this year or next year to change anything at all. All of this could be done in the future. There is nothing to be done, even the proposals that were made at the public hearing cannot! What will you do with this bill if there is no money, but the bill is in the process?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U87	Honourable questioner, you also turned to a public hearing, and in fact this subject is very closely linked to your draft. I wanted to say that the Health Insurance Fund has promised to carry out an additional study which will be completed at the end of this year. Let's hear the results, and next year we're going to make decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U88	Thank you. Please, Urbo Vaarmann!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U89	Thank you. Dear waitress, I didn't understand one thing. I understand that two studies have been carried out and that it is necessary to choose which of the proposed options to take advantage of, and that is all. But what you said seemed to me to be researching again. How's that, though?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U90	Actually, there's been a study. The University of Tartu has carried out its own study, which was ordered, and the second study comes from the Health Insurance Fund. Obviously, there are some specific questions that they are still looking for answers to. But I'm sure there'll be a change in dental benefits.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U91	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U92	Thank you, Madam President. Chairwoman of the Good Social Committee! The Health Insurance Fund carried out an analysis of the options proposed. Triin Habicht also made a very nice presentation and the Estonian Dental Association expressed its opinion. Am I right in saying that none of them opposed this plan and the question is that we simply need to find the most rational way to implement the idea? My question is: who is opposed?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U93	There's no one against it. At the meeting of the Social Committee, people were in favour of concluding the draft at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U94	Please, Urbo Vaarmann, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U95	Thank you. Good performer! You have mentioned in the coalition agreement, which is valid until 1 March, that dental care will be reorganized. What is going on in the years to come is not relevant. The head of the Health Insurance Fund repeatedly made it very clear that there is no money, that nothing can be reorganized immediately. If so, the money can only be moved within the system. I ask again: what are you going to do with our bill, which remained in the process, knowing that there is no money and that it is not coming? And why have you said in the interviews that you can't change anything right now, but right now you're saying that we're gonna see, we're gonna think? The coalition agreement requires a reorganization, but nothing is actually done because there is no money.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U96	Thank you for your question. The coalition agreement says something else: research and analysis are being carried out to deal with the issue of dental care.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U97	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U98	Thank you, Madam President. Chairwoman of the Good Social Committee! Since you are a member of the Riigikogu, you are a politician because you are the chairwoman of the Social Affairs Committee, you are an active and influential politician. I have a question for you as the president of the Social Affairs Committee, precisely as a politician. This is a draft of the opposition party. Do you see the danger that the bill will be beaten down because it is presented by the opposition party and used in the political struggle between the coalition and the opposition?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U99	Thank you for your question. No, I don't.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U100	Thank you. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U101	Thank you. President-in-Office of the Commission. You just said you didn't see that kind of danger. Then why wasn't this bill dealt with for four months? Today he stays in the process, you said that next year, different options will be considered. We've got September, October, November, December, people with no teeth waiting! Why don't we start discussing this next week?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U102	Thank you for your question. People without teeth, old-age pensioners and inability pensioners get prosthetics, but the concern is for those who still have their teeth in their mouths and want to treat them. As you know very well, the Social Affairs Committee worked through the summer and we have had very busy days. We put the bill on the agenda on time, nothing has been broken here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U103	Thank you. Heimar Lenk, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U104	Let me get this straight. You can't go on with the bill because you went to a lot of work this summer.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U105	We're still working on the bill. I didn't say I wasn't.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U106	No further questions. Thank you, Heljo Pikhof! Is there a desire to negotiate? Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U107	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Data more than 10 years ago say that 9% of women over 55 years of age and 11% of men of the same age have no teeth at all. A completely toothless person can't eat like a human being. And just like Viktor Vasilyev said, he can't even laugh, at least not in front of other people. Both an old - age pensioner and a person who cannot work because of illness must eat something. If he lives alone, he has little pension money to buy food, and he doesn't have the best chance of scraping money from anywhere. In the absence of money, the most common method of dental care in his case may be simply to pull a tooth out of his mouth. The current EUR 19 dental allowance for pensioners has also fallen into the same state of play. You can scrape off a tartar with that money, but you can't get a proper seal in your mouth. However, if the tooth is made up of seals, it will require a kroon to cover it, and a single plastic crown of teeth, which is temporary, will cost EUR 70 to 80 according to the cheapest prices. And if a molar requires a metal crown, it costs more than twice as much. Therefore, those pensioners who do not need prosthetics should be compensated for dental care costs of EUR 255,65 over three years. It's crazy when a retired person is forced to just wait for his last teeth to fall apart in his mouth. With poor teeth, it's a crazy thing that there's a domino effect: if one falls out of the line, the others fall out of the line. More reasonable in every way, and much cheaper in every way, the tooth that needs treatment is repaired immediately. Too many of us do not want to realize that health is in man's own hands rather than in the hands of doctors, much depends on the way of life. Studies show that dental visits often depend on priorities, not just money. But when we look at people who have bad teeth, you can see that their self-esteem is hurt. In addition to this, and perhaps the most important thing is that a disorder of the mouth begins with'real diseases' and that makes the situation the most difficult. These diseases strain both the person and the health insurance fund. Social Democrats agree that adult dental care benefits must be restored. It should be available for 2 to 3 years, and it should be a larger amount in total, so that the person can treat them in addition to dental examinations. Pensioners should be able to use the prosthetic benefit limit of EUR 255.65 for all dental care services. The Social Democrats support the Centre Party's draft principle that the pensioner's dental prosthetic money, EUR 255, could be used more widely in dental care, but we consider it important that dental money can be used within three years, not once in three years, as the Centre Party proposes. This is the difference between our points of view. Maybe I'll add that prosthetic money is mostly not used in parts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U108	Viktor Vassilyev on behalf of the Centre Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U109	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank all the people who dealt with this bill, especially Mrs Pikhof, the chairwoman of the Social Affairs Committee. While we are on the various sides of the hall, we are the opposition, you are the coalition, but right now it seems that we are basically in agreement. The necessary regulation will also be developed, but it would seem that all parties would like this law to apply. There is no Health Insurance Fund against it, they develop different options, but there is no one against it. Triin Habicht is not opposed, the Estonian Dentists' Association is also in favour of the amendment and, of course, the target group would welcome it on two hands. The opposition and I hope that the coalition, the entire Chamber of Riigikogu, will vote in full harmony in favour of this law. It turns out that only the Government of the Republic is opposed to the identity of the Ministry of Social Affairs. I'm sure they'll come to their senses, too. Maybe there's some sense there, and there's plenty of it. At the moment, however, the position of the Government of the Republic looks something like that of Jüri Manor when he was a member of the Tallinn Council. He said that we don't need any public transport that you drive on those stinking trams, buy a decent car, use public transport only those who are drunk or who have been taken away from them. Unfortunately, people sometimes find it hard to understand each other. Those who have money in their mouths, even 42 teeth, do not always understand people with less than ten teeth. But I believe that this time we will bring this matter to an end in unanimous cooperation and, to a lesser or greater extent, but some help can be given to people to keep the tooth system in order. After all, it's the one who smiles last, isn't it? And I hope that those who smile last are also aesthetically beautiful to look at, it's a smile that still looks like teeth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U110	Thank you. What can be promised to voters? When could the first grants come?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U111	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission's proposal was to conclude the first reading of draft 656. First reading is over. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments in s. 5.15 p.m. on 25 September 2005. The debate on today's agenda is exhausted. Thank you very much to all the participants. I wish you a beautiful day. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 12.17 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U112	I have already said that at the beginning of next year, we will be dealing with which option is going to work. Maybe there's another fourth or fifth chance. Those who were at the Social Affairs Committee's public hearing know that there were different options, but there could be other options. For example, I raised the question of why there could be no possibility for adults to use more money for dental treatment and control over three years. There are other options that come under consideration.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-11_U113	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Sing, second question!
