ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U1	Good afternoon, colleagues. We will begin the Monday session of the eighth working week of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Now is the opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. First of all, I ask Mrs Heili Tõnisson, the representative of the Government of the Republic of the Speaker's Office!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U2	Madam Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching five draft laws today. First of all, the draft law of Tallinn University of Technology is represented by Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Science, in the Riigikogu when dealing with the draft law. Secondly, the draft law amending the Fisheries Act, the Government of the Republic is represented by Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Minister of the Environment, in the Riigikogu when dealing with the bill. Thirdly, the draft law amending the Veterinary Organisation Act and related amendments to other laws, the Riigikogu represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law by the Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder. Fourthly, the draft law on structural support for the period 2014 to 2020 is represented by the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi in the Riigikogu when dealing with the draft law. Fifthly, the draft law on collective agreement and collective labour dispute resolution, the Riigikogu represents the Government of the Republic in Taavi Rõiva, Minister of Social Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U3	Thank you. Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U4	On behalf of the three members of my group, Esther Tuiksoo, Tarmo Tamme and myself, I will report to our Minister for Education on the fact that after the closure of Vana-Antsla Vocational Secondary School in Võrumaa, its specialties were allowed to be transferred to Võrumaa Vocational Education Centre in Väimela. At first, they tried to do this with construction and maybe some other specialties, but after the ministry gave it up. The local government council decided to address the Minister for Education with a question of what this is about. Why are these specialties no longer taught? I can say that secondary education in rural areas is no longer given in Estonia, for example, we have given up training for farmers in South Estonia. I'll give you our question, let the minister answer if he's still a minister at the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U5	Thank you. Please, Mr Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will hand over the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board for granting grants from the Gambling Tax. The Committee on Finance has, in particular, received a letter from the Ministry of Social Affairs asking them to replace the Chancellor currently in the Council with the Deputy Chancellor. For this reason, on behalf of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I will hand over a draft to that effect from the Riigikogu Speaker's Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U7	Thank you. On behalf of the board, I have adopted six draft laws and one inquiry. If the draft laws comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board will decide on their procedure within three working days. If an inquiry complies with the same law, I shall immediately forward it to the addressee. Now the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has taken proceedings in the Estonian Central Party faction. a draft law amending § 16 of the Road Act, initiated on 13 March, and appointed it as the commission of the Economic Commission. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. a a a draft Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 March amending Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013 and Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 as regards the aid scheme for the distribution of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk in educational establishments, to the Commission for European Union affairs. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the Rural Commission to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and the draft regulation. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. March 27, 2006 at 4 p.m. Colleagues, please let's do a presence check! 85 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 16. Let us move on to the agenda, which needs to be clarified a little bit. First of all, the Social Committee of the Riigikogu has proposed to exclude the 13th item of the session of 19 March from the agenda of the eighth working week of the Riigikogu, the draft law amending the Law on Health and Safety at Work initiated by the Government of the Republic 580. I further specify that the members of the Riigikogu, Yana Toom, Ester Tuiksoo, Viktor Vassiljev, Urbo Vaarmann, Enn Eesmaa, Vladimir Velman, Valeri Korb, Mikhail Stalnukhin and Marika-Tuus Song withdrew their inquiry into alcohol policy submitted on 30 January. This was supposed to be today's agenda item 4. And another withdrawal: Riigikogu members Viktor Vassilyev, Mailis Reps, Urbo Vaarmann, Yana Toom, Priit Toobal, Olga Sõtnik, Tarmo Tamm, Eldar Efendiev, Enn Eesmaa, Peeter Võsa, Lauri Laas, Vladimir Velman, Valeri Korb, Mikhail Stalnukhin and Marika Tuus-Laul withdrew their inquiry into the e-health information system submitted on 10 February. The inquiry was dealt with by 386 and it was supposed to be today's agenda item 5. Colleagues, these improvements will put this week's agenda to the vote. Please vote! 76 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the adoption of the agenda, no one opposed, with one abstention. So, the agenda is confirmed. Let's go to the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U8	Today's first item is Kadri Simson, Yana Toomi, Viktor Vassilyev, Priit Toobali, Kalev Kallo, Tarmo Tamme, Eldar Efendiev, Enn Eesmaa, Vladimir Velman, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Valeri Korbi and Marika Tuus-Laul on 29 January. a request for information on the increase of the tax-free minimum (No 383). Mr Stalnukhin, I would like to address the speaker's colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U9	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Mr Secretary of Finance. Last January, you said in the interview given to the Estonian Päevaleht that the income tax-free minimum must start to increase, as it would directly support people with lower incomes. Unfortunately, the increase in the income tax-free minimum was cancelled this year, as the state budget discussions found that there was no money available for this. The report published by the OECD in autumn 2012 states that the tax rate for people with lower incomes in Estonia is high compared to the tax rate for people with lower incomes in other countries, which is why the emphasis on the reduction of direct taxes should be on those with lower wages. The tax burden on low wage earners in Estonia is 39% of labour costs, 37% in Denmark, 36% in Finland, 34% in Greece, 30% in Great Britain and 23% in Ireland. The income tax-free minimum was last amended in 2008 in Estonia when it rose from EEK 24,000 to EEK 27,000. The role of tax-free income has decreased considerably over the years. In 2006, tax-free income amounted to 66.7% of the minimum wage, but this year it is only 40.6%. Even if this year's income tax-free minimum is not raised, in 2015 it will represent only 36.9% of the minimum wage. When the new income tax system was introduced in 1994, the tax-free minimum was 300 kroons per month and was equal to the minimum wage. In all of this, we are asking three questions and, in terms of time savings, I would ask you to read these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U10	Thank you very much, Mr Stalnukhin. I would now like to ask the Minister for Finance for the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U11	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! You're referring to my interview last year on your question. I will stick to those words, the tax-free minimum must begin to rise. I will also stick to this election promise, which was written in my small hand in the 2011 programme, that, with the increase in the tax-free minimum, the tax rate will have to go down. That's the position I've been defending all along. I have last defended this in the negotiations to form a new government, and I have also defended it in my party in preparation for the next elections, where, in fact, this tax-free minimum is now the only plan on labour taxes. But that labour taxes are a strategic problem in Estonia, I have said much more than in the interview you referred to. Whether the tax burden on low-wage earners is high in Estonia is such a question of drawing a line. In general, it can be said that the load is average. If we want an economy with higher added value and higher-paid jobs, we certainly should not harass the higher-paid and exempt the rest from tax. The tax burden could be relatively low in percentage terms. So you can't go too far with a tax-free minimum. All the more so because, regionally, this would mean the loss of the tax base and the interest in a phenomenon such as income tax would be lost. You referred to 2008 when the tax-free minimum last increased. This is simply proof that the tax-free minimum must rise at a sustainable rate; it must not be too fast. At that time, during the boom, an undoubted error was made, and it was decided in 2003 when a very rapid increase in the tax-free minimum was promised. As things got worse, it turned out that the budget did not allow this. Now, specific questions. You are referring to an agreement to raise the minimum wage to 390 euros. I support this agreement. The question is whether I see the possibility of increasing tax-free income from 1 January 2015. Yeah, I can see that. However, I certainly consider the increase in the minimum wage to be more important than the increase in the tax-free minimum. For people, it's more important than ever that wages are higher. This affects their well-being more than the increase in the tax-free minimum rate. Question two: '2011. One of the promises of the Reform Party in the elections to the Riigikogu was to ensure stable economic growth. ' That's right! 'To this end, a reduction in the rate of income tax plus an increase in the tax-free minimum... ' That's right again! '... and reduce the unemployment insurance rate. ' That's right! The tax rate fell last year and I believe it will also fall next year. The question is, when will the government fulfil its promise to raise the tax-free minimum? In fact, this promise was made with a promise to lower the tax rate. The minimum slope is going to go with that. I am quite sure that this will succeed in 2015, as stated in the current coalition agreement. The third question: 'You have said that, even at the height of the economy, the government was unable to raise the tax-free minimum to the desired extent, not to mention now. " I do not know what it is meant to say that it was not possible to increase to the desired extent in high times. After all, in high times, this minimum rose at a rate that was unsustainable, and it had to be stopped. You're referring to specific years of inquiry. The boom ended with a severe crisis that left very deep wounds in the budget. But I am sure that 2015 will be the year when the tax-free minimum will rise again. You also ask whether it is fair to admit that the government does not want to improve the situation of low-paid people, but rather wants to further increase the inequality of people's net income. It's not fair to say that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U12	Any questions? Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U13	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, This year the minimum wage in Estonia rose. If nothing special happens, next year the minimum wage will also rise. However, this means that the tax-free minimum is an increasingly low proportion of the minimum wage. How do you think there's gotta be a certain proportion that this is the minimum wage and some specific percentage of it has to be the tax-free minimum, or is this going to be something different in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U14	I am categorically opposed to this binding. The minimum wage is known to be fixed by agreement between the social partners. It does not have the slightest bearing in mind the expenditure and revenue and balance of the budget, but is based on considerations discussed between the labour market players. And these considerations do not need to replace the very complex budgetary considerations of how much tax collection is urgently needed. This is definitely a sovereign decision of the Riigikogu. I do not want the Riigikogu to fall into such a status that, somewhere at the end of the year, it is noted that one pile of money has left the budget with the agreement of the two parties, because both parties were interested in such a budget allocation. I think employers are more conservative about the rise in the minimum wage. Lately, however, the amount of the minimum wage is growing so rapidly that the increase in the tax-free minimum certainly cannot go along with it. The budget would not tolerate this and, above all, it would not be borne out by the municipal revenue base. I do not consider it possible that the state will quietly refrain from collecting income tax and that it will also absorb this whole pace.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U15	Please, Mr Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U16	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You said, at least to me, that you said so, that if you were to choose whether to raise the minimum wage or the income tax-free minimum, you would rather choose to raise the minimum wage. I did not understand this a little bit because, in your subsequent response, you have corrected that the minimum wage is not really dependent on the government, but is an agreement between market participants. At the same time, raising the tax-free minimum is purely a government line and its decision-making power. You can't make them depend on each other, can you?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U17	I like your formulation that you didn't really seem to have heard the wrong thing. But the fact that these two things cannot be linked is a very reasonable argument. I am very worried that the parties will develop such links for the election. Budgets do not stand for this, and it is also fundamentally wrong if we, regionally, exclude a large part of Estonia's local tax base essentially in order to pay off everything from elsewhere. I don't think it's good for democracy if it doesn't have its own contribution. Then the municipality is not at all a full-fledged phenomenon. In fact, I said that, in terms of people's well-being, wage increases are far more important than the higher tax-free minimum. After all, the tax-free minimum is only a little more than a fifth at present, but in the future it will be exactly one fifth of this wage increase. In a man's wallet, it's only a fifth.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U18	Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U19	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, We are not discussing with you in this Chamber for the first time an increase in the minimum income tax. You've always said it was a nice thing, but there's no money for it. This weekend, the media went through that the new coalition negotiations have decided to increase both the income tax-free minimum and lower the income tax rate and, in addition, reduce unemployment insurance contributions. Would you enlighten us where this large amount of money came from now on, so that you can fulfill all these promises?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U20	Some of your claims were correct, I'm trying to remember them. It must have been wrong to say that I have said that there is no money. The money is not if we do not make the political choices that will release it. Now we are determined to make such political choices. One policy option makes it possible to reduce the unemployment insurance rate. It's not too much money, it's all at the expense of something. I think that raising the tax-free minimum is a noble departure from the point of view of the state. This is a more noble exit than any other, which has been cut in the budget. The existing government has not reached decisions allowing for the release of resources to increase the tax-free minimum.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U21	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U22	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. You have positioned yourself as a spokesperson for raising the income tax-free minimum. Unfortunately, so far, you have failed to change this rate. Next year, however, the percentage of income tax will decrease. Why do you prefer a reduction in the income tax rate to an increase in the tax-free minimum? Can you comment briefly on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U23	I'm capable of commenting on that. I've done this a lot of times on the remote. You had probably written your question before, but yes, I have defended the reduction in the tax rate with the increase in the tax-free minimum, and I hope that in the coming year both will come true. But I cannot allow it personally, it is the competence of the government and the Riigikogu, not just the competence of one person. As far as the advantages are concerned, raising the tax-free minimum is more of a social impact. This will ease the tax burden on low-paid people, but the general economic stimulus is nothing more than an increase in domestic consumption of some consumers. Not all people will consume more than the tax-free minimum, but the poorer part of the population will certainly consume more. Their well-being is growing, and this is reflected in increased domestic consumption, which in turn affects gross domestic product. The tax rate is a matter of international competitiveness. Income tax is the most disincentive to the economy, I have repeatedly said it here, referring to the OECD. The OECD considers corporate tax to be the most disincentive. It is also a matter of global competition. The tax rate has a growing rather than declining effect on decisions to set up companies and place capital in. Capital seeks a lower rate of income tax, but it seeks a lower rate of income tax not only on the company's profits but also on the payroll. I now consider the heavy burden of labour tax to be a problem for our strategy. There are four effective instruments to reduce labour tax burdens. One of the things we are talking about here is raising the tax-free minimum, the other a little bit, it is reducing the income tax rate, the third a reduction in unemployment insurance contributions, which has also been mentioned, and the fourth a reduction in social tax. If we deal with them all, and even if we deal with them in such a way that we carry the tax burden elsewhere, the competitiveness of the Estonian economy will be improved and employment will also increase.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U24	Please, my colleague Andrus Saare!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U25	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I ask you to clarify this. You are talking about an increase in the tax-free minimum since 2015. This is the decision of this hall and the government, but what do you base your optimism on, either your stomach or your spring or your autumn forecast? Where does this optimism come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U26	It's based on my gut, my back, my head, my legs and my hands. I think it is so important that it needs to be introduced from 2015. It is not enough for us to lower the rate of income tax. The tax-free minimum must also start to rise, just as I prophetically said in 2013, and as I said more prophetically in 2011. Take my word for it, I know what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U27	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U28	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Mr Minister, in answering Mr Sester's question, you said that the current government did not want to make the necessary political decisions. Let me get this straight: in the coalition so far, the IRL has been an obstacle to this, why have you not yet been able to raise the tax-free minimum?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U29	Thank you. That's not exactly what I meant. I must admit, however, that the various fossilised interests of the administration have made budgetary choices very difficult. We are unable to treat anyone more equally than others, to raise costs from one administrative area to another, and to free up certain sources of income. This time, the increase in the tax-free minimum was recorded in the promises of the Reform Party. This time it was not among the IRL's promises concerning other costs. The absence of a common share was one of the reasons why the increase in the tax-free minimum was excluded from this agreement. As far as I'm concerned, it could have been in there from the start. However, the problem with the current government is, above all, that everything has been wanted to be done terribly in solidarity. That's what's done very well. However, if you still want to make political choices, somewhere to shift the pressure, that's a problem. Raising the tax-free minimum is one such emphasis, where softening fossilised positions is essential as a prerequisite.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U30	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. Colleagues, would you like to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U31	We will go to the next question: members of the Riigikogu Heljo Pikhof, Karel Rüütli, Marianne Mikko, Rainer Vakra, Kalev Kotkas, Andres Anvelt, Neeme Suur, Jüri Morozov, Inara Luigas, Kalvi Tõik, Helmen Kütti and Jaak Allik's. a Request for information on support for children with special educational needs submitted on 10 February (No 385). My colleague, Heljo Pikhof, to the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U32	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Social Democrats have submitted an inquiry into support for children with special educational needs. The inquiry is submitted by the Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aavikkogu. According to § 46 (1) of the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act, students with special educational needs are not only children with certain medical conditions but also those who find it difficult to learn because of behavioural and emotional disorders, who have been absent from school for a long time or who do not have sufficient knowledge of the school language and may therefore need the help of support staff and/or specially trained teachers. In 2006-2010 alone, 1437 boys and 543 girls dropped out of the final stage of comprehensive school. The trend persists, against the background of our ever decreasing number of students, which is unfortunately accompanied by an increase in the proportion of children with special needs, including mental and behavioural disorders. It is known that 17% of 135000 students, or almost 24,000, are named "special educational needs' in the Estonian Education Information System. At the same time, it should be noted that the situation varies considerably from country to country. According to a study carried out by the Ministry of Education and Research, students with special educational needs in Jõgeva, Lääne-Viru and Põlva counties already formed a quarter or more of the student population. From 1 September 2014, the provisions of the amended Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act will enter into force, according to which the student must be provided free of charge at least with the assistance of a specialist pedagogy (including logopaedic), psychologist and social pedagogy. The use of such support specialists shall be provided by the schoolkeeper and shall be organised by the Director. As state support, according to the renewed law, the Minister of Education and Research in each county will set up at least one advisory committee responsible, inter alia, for organising the teaching and education of children with special educational needs and ensuring the provision of special education and psychological services to schools by 1 September 2014 at the latest. On the basis of a study carried out by Praxis in 2011, school and kindergarten managers and teachers prefer to have support specialists in their own institution. In particular, 94% of the logo beet is considered to have responded in this way, but there is also a need for other specialists to be present on the spot. Specialised education and psychologists' assistance at county level is not considered to be so necessary as it cannot be effective with its case-by-case approach. This is because it is not possible to analyse the environment in which communication, behavior and learning difficulties have arisen. I mean the everyday life of a particular school and community. It has been found that the waiting list for the specialist invited from the counselling centre to provide assistance may extend to several months, but some conflict situations need to be resolved immediately and quickly. As a result, we have put six questions to the Minister for Education and Research. The first of these is: 'Acceptance centers provide second-degree counselling. On the basis of the Praxis study, school and kindergarten managers and teachers prefer to have support specialists in their own institution. Why is there a preference for national support for second-level counselling? ' One question concerns Paragraph 47 (1) of the PGS. In fact, it is based on the principle of inclusive learning, which provides that such a child usually attends the normal school of his/her place of residence. However, Kersti Nigesen, Director of the Old Town Educational College, who involved HEV students in the ordinary school, has noted that this form of study has led to the closure of the school. How can schools be motivated to include children with special educational needs in mainstream education without additional funding? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U33	Thank you, Mr Pikhof. I would now like to ask the honourable Minister for Education and Science to speak on the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U34	President-in-Office of the Council. Good ambassadors! Questions on support for pupils with special educational needs are as follows: I'd answer in order of questions. Question number one: 'Advice centers provide second-degree counselling. On the basis of the Praxis study, school and kindergarten managers and teachers prefer to have support specialists in their own institution. Why is there a preference for national support for second-level counselling? ' Counselling in schools on both the first and the second levels has been going on for a long time. The legislator, or people in this hall, has placed this responsibility on the schoolkeeper. The recruitment and funding of school support professionals is by law the responsibility of the schoolkeeper and in this respect the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act was not amended in 2010 or 2013. However, one problem has emerged. This is because we have schools of very different sizes. There are 1,700 students in the largest school and there are no students in the smallest school. In addition, there is a whole series of schools with fewer than ten students. And now imagine a situation where, according to international quite good practice, we need about 600 students for a post of psychologist. What does that mean? This means that in a school with six students, one hundredth of a psychologist is needed. I hope you will also understand that in such a situation it is inevitably difficult to ensure that the services of psychologists and specialised pedagogues are provided on the ground. So in many cases it may be almost impossible for small municipalities and small schools to comply with the legal obligation to provide first-level services in schools. That is why a new instrument was created in the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act adopted in this Chamber. The State undertook to establish a specialist base in the county centres which could provide a first-level service to smaller municipalities on the ground. I would like to stress that there is no second-level counselling at the counselling centres in the sense that you have criticised here. This type of second-level counselling has always been the case, there will be more first-level counselling for those municipalities with very few students. With this innovation, the legislator, on the proposal of the Ministry of Education and Research and the government, wants to achieve that the state supports children with special educational needs more, not less, as you might conclude from your question. I hope you understand the whole situation. I am not explaining this for the first or the second or third time in this Chamber, but for the fourth or fifth time. Once again, by setting up these centres, the state will assume additional responsibilities to support smaller municipalities and schools by providing first-level special education services. Question two: '2010. a the regulation no longer applies from the minimum composition of school staff. /---/ Does the Minister intend to issue any regulations in this regard and on what basis, given that there are already regional differences in the needs of support specialists? Is there also a plan to draw up a guide or guidance for local authorities to determine the need for support specialists' positions? Is it going to be needs-based or student head count? ' I will start by stressing once again: the law obliges the schoolkeeper to provide a first-level support service for those who need it. It is therefore a necessity-based service. The composition of school staff, including the number of support specialists, depends on the size of a particular school, the specific characteristics of the student contingent and regional characteristics. Therefore, it is more appropriate than the national minimum compositions that the school manager, in cooperation with the head of school, agrees on the composition of staff to meet specific needs. This is indeed a fundamental change. We also give up, at last, the idea of an industrial age in education policy that somewhere in high capital there are smart people who know exactly how many positions each school must have. This is a step towards increasing the autonomy of schools and schoolchildren so that they can respond flexibly to specific needs in a particular school and in a particular municipality. This is another step towards ensuring services, not by bureaucratic rules established at the level of the law or regulation, but by reference to the specific needs of a particular school. Some schools have more children with special needs, so they also need more specialists. This assistance does not have to be applied for by the State in exceptional circumstances; it can be decided independently by the schoolmaster. The creation of such flexibility has indeed been intentional. The aim is to ensure flexible service for pupils with special educational needs in all schools. To this end, bureaucratic rules have been abolished, where you could say that you see one place, and although there is too much work, we cannot do anything about red tape. Now the schoolkeeper can employ as many people as the school students need. In addition, it is possible for the State to order assistance from the Centre in the case of small settlements where the burden would be so small that it would simply not be possible to offer reasonable or acceptable working conditions to specialists. The third question: 'What is the need now for logo beets, psychologists and social pedagogues? How does the Ministry of Education and Research ensure the availability of relevant support specialists in rural areas? For example, are any continuing education programmes planned for unemployed or remaining teachers? ' I'm not going to dwell on this statistics in detail, so I'd be happy to send it to you for an introduction. But there is more or less a common understanding of how many statistically certain specialists are needed. It is true, as I said, that the situation in local governments is different, but we are based on the fact that one specialized education position is needed for 250 students and one psychologist's position for 600 students. From such figures, we can talk about these positions. As I said, insufficient coverage of these services by specialists is, above all, a problem for small rural settlements. By amending the law and by means of programmes funded by the European Structural Funds, 73 specialist education centres and 33 psychologists will be created. So there will be a little more than a hundred special education teachers coming together for Estonian general education schools or municipal schools. This is about one fifth of the people currently in work, with their jobs rising by about 20%. I am quite sure that it will improve the quality of this service throughout Estonia, especially in weaker municipalities. Question 4: 'Preparation to deal with HEVs is weak, according to teachers themselves. A regular teacher has not been trained to observe and cope with different special needs. However, it takes time and good professional skills to explain the causes of student incompetence, behavioral disorders, and other problems. What steps will the Ministry of Education and Research take to prepare and support ordinary teachers to deal with HEVs? ' I cannot quite agree that the problem of children with special educational needs is something that has been discovered a few years ago, and that good questioners are the first people to think of it. Children with special educational needs have been attending Estonian schools for decades, if not centuries, and teachers have done better or worse all the time. It is part of their basic training, as well as further training. If the teacher does not really feel competent to teach children with special educational needs, he or she will have the opportunity to acquire this knowledge in the context of further training. I certainly do not accept, without any criticism, the argument that a teacher teaches only a certain part of the children and that the rest of them are not able to cope with the fact that he does not have to teach them, that someone else must do it, or that he must receive special preparation or a separate reward. You have to teach those kids who are in school. It's gotta be the main attitude. Of course, better preparation is always needed, and better preparation is needed to work with average students. But the solution is not that a regular teacher teaches only so-called ordinary children and everyone else must teach someone else. Such an approach is unlikely to be reasonable and the Ministry does not intend to support it. Question 5: 'HEV teaching a student requires additional resources from the teacher, especially in cases where an individual curriculum is needed to create a favourable development environment for the child. Funding for the operation of such curricula at national level is not supported in small learning groups, for example, within the framework of such curricula and the normal class. In this case, how can we guarantee that HEV students will have a favourable learning environment? " Again, the schoolkeeper must ensure this. That's the job of a schoolgirl. And the job of the schoolmaster is to cover all these costs. Now for additional funding. If you look at the current law and current funding practice, the state will allocate much more money to the training of some pupils with special educational needs than to ordinary students. The amount may be up to 14 times higher than that prescribed for one ordinary student. So to say that there is no separate funding, it is simply not adequate. The possibilities could always be greater, the money could always be twice as much, three times more, five times more, but even then the money would be missing. However, we now have a financing mechanism that allocates more money to the training of pupils with special educational needs. The sixth question now: 'According to § 47 (1) of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, the organisation of education for pupils with special educational needs is based on the principle of inclusive learning, according to which he or she usually studies in the normal school of the place of residence. Kersti Nigesen, Director of the Old Town Educational College, who has involved HEV students in the ordinary school, has recognised that this form of study has led to school bankruptcy. How can schools be motivated to include children with special educational needs in mainstream education without additional funding? ' Good questioners, I am truly sorry when the Tallinn Old Town Educational College has been brought to the brink of bankruptcy, but this is a question for the school manager. This is a question for the city of Tallinn, who must finance schools in sufficient volume according to the law. In principle, it is not possible for a school to go out of business; no school can go out of business. The city of Tallinn may go bankrupt if it cannot finance its activities, but no municipal school can go bankrupt. I therefore think that the question should be addressed to the City Government of Tallinn. For my part, I can say that according to the law, education for children with special educational needs is also financed much more in the Tallinn Old Town Educational College than that for ordinary students. I can also give you more precise figures within the limits of your time resources. If for students with special educational needs there are 12 students at the limit of performance of the class, each child's education will be funded at 1.79 times, or nearly twice. If the ratio of the performance of the class, i.e. the limit value, is 8, then each child's education is financed twice and a half times more; if the limit is 6, then 3.4 times more; if there are only four children in the class, then 3.6 times more, and if there is one in one in one, then 14.3 times more. And this regardless of whether the child is in the normal class or whether one of these students is made up of one of the holistic classes. In this way, most schools teaching children with special educational needs have done quite well with their tasks, and I hope that this will also be possible in the Tallinn Old Town Educational College if the schoolkeeper acts responsibly. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U35	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's keep asking questions. Please, colleague Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U36	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Of course, there are no students, no teachers, no support specialists in schools. But as for the need for support specialists at school, I had the impression from your answers that the teachers could handle everything. If they don't make it, let them go to refresher training. Then why do you even need support specialists? Why do you need logos, social pedagogies, special pedagogies and psychologists if you think that teachers don't need support? They can take care of themselves?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U37	Good questioner, that's not how I put it. I told you at length and widely about the first-level specialist service and the second-level specialist service. You tell me that I don't appreciate the need for specialists, it's either malicious, demagogic, or it's both together. Of course, we need specialists. They have been, they are still teaching in Estonian schools and they need more. You could have listened more attentively to what I said. But I'm gonna go over it again. These changes, which have been planned by the Ministry of Education and Research on the basis of additional state funding, will increase the total number of special needs teachers by more than a hundred posts. They're going to be over 20% more than ever. So once again, esteemed vigilante, I have not fought back. You may convince me I don't know anyone that I'm a malicious person and that I have a bad attitude towards specialized education, but that's not true. I hope I don't have to explain it again. However, just in case, I assure special specialists who teach children with special educational needs: the Ministry of Education and Research is planning to create more than one hundred special education positions based on the amendment to the basic school and upper secondary school law that you have proposed, which you have approved.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U38	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. First of all, I want to assure you that, at least under the leadership of the Centre Party, Tallinn will certainly not go bankrupt. But my question is of a somewhat practical nature and concerns the advisory centres that will be working in the county centres in the future. How's all this gonna be? Do the psychologists who work there go to the students or do the students have to go to the psychologists?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U40	This depends on the need and organisation of work. The most general approach could be that, if a first-level service is not provided in certain schools, it has been agreed which schools are the responsibility of a particular specialist and how often he attends them. In this case, students will receive help on the ground. That clearly makes sense. However, a service which is not provided at school should not be excluded. Once again, everything is a matter of practical organisation, but the general rule should be that the service comes to the student's school, where it is needed. This is self-evident, especially for services at first level.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U41	Please, colleague Jüri Morozov!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U42	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You said that there should be one competent person at the counselling centre for 600 students, that it would be justified to have him. If we charge that a quarter of students, or 150, are children with special educational needs and, say, a third of them need specialist help, then we get about 50 cases for this one person. In rural areas, the distance between the counselling centre and the settlement is 20 to 40 kilometres. Have you thought about how this system will actually work? Does the counsellors drive from the center to the site in an ambulance, or does the teacher take the children to the school and drive to the centre? Which, in your opinion, is a more effective and rational option?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U43	Good questioner, you took a nap while you answered the previous question. I tried to explain that, according to reasonable work organisation, the first-level service should be available at school. However, there are certainly cases, especially those of second-level counseling, where it makes sense for the student to go where he or she is assisted. In my opinion, it is unwise to try to squeeze out any general political decision here. A little more about the training of children with special educational needs. With regard to the so-called ambulance cases, where the special pedagogue should rush in immediately, these emotions should not be overstretched. There are not enough ambulance cases to build up a nationwide system based on them, which provides for vehicles with flashlights, etc. The real life is more practical, counselling is for both the student and the teacher. First sighting is primarily a teacher's duty. It is also the responsibility of a teacher to apply certain counsel in everyday life. The idea that we can distribute students so much that there are normal students who are dealt with by a normal teacher, and there are special students who are dealt with by a specialized teacher, such a division of work in real life is neither reasonable nor even possible. I would stress once again that the aid provided through the county advisory centres is in addition to the existing one. In addition to what we have! I know that, in many cases, when it comes to attacking this policy, it is attempted to give the impression that all specialized education teachers are going to disappear from schools. They're not going anywhere! The people who work there are needed, and they continue to work as they have worked all the time. Nobody's said they weren't needed. However, not all students have equal access to such help, and we are creating an additional opportunity for them. I'm sure that makes sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U44	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U45	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, Indeed, I believe that the creation of such counselling centres in counties will also make these services available to pupils in small schools. Initially, these centers do not yet exist, but it will take time before they are created. In large schools with thousands of children, for example, but the service is actually funded by the schoolmaster. Now there will be centres to which the state will allocate money. Does it not seem to you that it is worth considering, perhaps the state could also pay for these locally supplied services in larger schools, for example, with 1000 students or also 600 students? Then it's like equality is guaranteed. I am thinking, not of access to the service, but of paying it off.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U46	You propose that the service of support specialists be held accountable and paid by the state. This proposal has been made before, even in this Chamber, but unfortunately it has not been approved by the Riigikogu. Proposals have also been made not only for the creation of state secondary schools, but also for the nationalisation of the entire upper secondary school level. Indeed, very many municipalities are unable to run state secondary schools. There have also been proposals to nationalise all education at all because we have local authorities where even basic education is difficult. We know that in many municipalities there are serious problems in guaranteeing the pay of pre-school teachers, and there are proposals that the state take on this too. But I want to tell you, no matter what decisions we make, there's a limit. If we all assume the responsibilities of local governments, then municipalities are no longer needed. I do encourage the Riigikogu and the government to think about how to organise regional administration in such a way that administrative authorities are able to manage. In fact, it is a matter of administrative failure and, of course, in the case of inability to manage, it is not the only problem that municipalities are physically small, that there are too few people there. The problem is more complex. It is also linked to the existence of an independent income base, the creation of the right motivation mechanisms. In this case, the national fine-tuning fund is demotivating. So we have a whole series of problems, but gradually all the time to increase the country's responsibilities because no one can handle the tasks arising from their laws is not responsible. And when it comes to coping, it is not only small local authorities that are incompetent. One of today's questions revealed that the City of Tallinn is also unable to finance the Old Town Educational College. How else is it possible that one normal and good Estonian school is going bankrupt? How is that possible? This is because of the unscrupulous conduct of this school, not the poor keeper. I agree that we could discuss the financing of support specialists in the state budget. I have said this repeatedly here on the remote, but, as has already been said, so far it has not found the support of the Riigikogu. The estimated cost to the state budget would be EUR 20 million per year. But I understand that lately, so much money has been found in the basements of the Ministry of Finance that maybe it's within the reach of a new, emerging coalition. Good luck to them!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U47	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U48	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. According to the law, the local government has an obligation to pay support specialists, and I think that is right. This is really the task of a local government. But unfortunately, the state has failed to cover this task with money. During some period, the state covered these expenses. As I recall, the city of Tartu had 10 million in crowns of this money. There is no money now, and the sufferers are children. If you are coming to this hall, Mr Minister, could the IRL present one of the first drafts to ensure the funding of the support specialists? The Centre Party supports the proposal, the Social Democrats too, so maybe we can finally fix this.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U49	First of all, the number of benefactors has multiplied in the last weeks and months in this Chamber of the Riigikogu more than three months ago. The Estonian people must like it. The only question is, to whom these unpaid invoices are sent at one point. But if it's economically viable and this vault that Jürgen Ligi just discovered is bottomless, it won't stand behind me. I agree to vote in favour of everything, including special education teachers, early childhood education teachers and ordinary teachers. And I wouldn't forget myself and all of you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U50	Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U51	Thank you. Well, as long as it's an oversupply, I have this question. Could one alternative be to return to the principled approach that education support is education support and that the local government is delivering this money within the limits set by the state itself? The state is not very limited as to whether it is using this money to pay a special pedagogue or a methodician or head of school, or whether it is putting more emphasis on teaching English. It would be up to the local community.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U52	I like that idea, especially in theoretical terms. In practical terms, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, when the Riigikogu adopted amendments to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act in 2010, and the government created a hole in the teachers' purse, the teachers were not paid all the money and their relative wages started to fall. Where do I really want to go with this? The truth is that this will lead to a situation where the salaries of Estonian teachers will be very different. We still have an educational policy approach based on the understanding that teachers everywhere teach in the same way and education, at least general education, should be equally accessible to everyone of equal quality. Teachers should be as good and equally well remunerated, whether the child attends Tallinn Real School, Old Town Educational College, Misso School or somewhere else. And if we want to stick to it, given the behaviour of the schoolkeepers, it seems to me that we cannot afford to spend teachers' salaries for other purposes. We have seen that municipalities spend it differently. The result is that the quality of education suffers, and that, in my opinion, must not be allowed. So ideally, this is conceivable, but practical life shows that it leads to very large wage differences in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U53	Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U54	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. My question is about practice. If the principle is that a HEV child is studying in a regular school near home, then it is not just a matter of support specialists. If one of these children is combined with a disability, then it will certainly be necessary not only for support specialists but also for helping teachers. Even if their one, two or three HEV children's bounty is 1.7 or 2.6 times higher than the normal student's bounty, this amount does not allow the hire of an assistant teacher to allow the class to work normally. How do you think this system will practically work? If in normal classes, HEV children study, but the psychologist they need is available at the county centre, it doesn't work.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U55	I'll come back to the basic position, which is nicely written in the PGS. The costs of the school are covered by all the costs incurred by the school manager. And, as you pointed out, there is a need not only for specialists or specialized teachers but also for teachers who are either teachers' assistants or assistant teachers, or who qualify as additional staff. There is also a need to change the physical environment. We also need to get into the school in a wheelchair, some students need separate rooms to rest, and there are other special needs. So the real needs of these children are very diverse and very large. This is where we come to the question of whether the state must assume all this responsibility. If so, then the state must also take over the school if the schoolkeeper does not get the basics organized. After all, he will not be able to do it, and it will indeed be an administrative failure if we conclude that local authorities are unable to attend school, including the teaching of children with special educational needs. We have just talked about up to 25% of children with special educational needs. Statistically speaking, a child with special educational needs sits in each class. In fact, we must not accept a situation where we say that the local government is failing, let the state pay for everything: let it pay for the assistant teacher, as well as the wheelchair and some third expenses. If the state has to pay for all the costs, this essentially means that the school has become a public school. The school has been taken away from the local government. Therefore, the limit is very clear in the law: the State covers certain costs and supports the coverage of other costs. If you're reading the law, it doesn't say the state will cover the costs. The law states that the State supports these costs. That's what the law says, and I think it makes sense. The alternative is to take schools away from schoolers, take them for public support. As has been said, such proposals have been made.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U56	Thank you very much, Minister. No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U57	Our last question is the members of the Riigikogu Urbo Vaarmanni, Vladimir Velmani, Peeter Võsa, Viktor Vassilyev, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Yana Toomi, Eldar Efendijev and Mikhail Stalnukhini on 26 February s. a request for information on problems at Tapa Special School (No 391). Please, colleague Urbo Vaarmann, to the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U58	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to hear again about the situation in Tapa Special School, which unfortunately has not improved, but, on the contrary, has got worse. According to the latest statistics, even passing through the papers, Tapa Special School students have been on the run 1,200 times a year. If we take into account that there were only 25 students, then everyone can continue to calculate for themselves. It's a specific question. Killing the Special School student rebellion has now been over a month and a little more bypassed. However, the problems that were then the breaking-in of windows, attacking educators, etc. have not resolved and the situation has only got worse over the past month. Surveillance staff have been released from the school, the head of supervision staff has left, and as of today there are only three other male supervisors in the school. This data may be wrong because it is not possible to communicate with the staff of the school; the Ministry of Education has banned it. Teachers still lack real leverage and the right to deal with troubled young people. The school security expert of the Minister of Education and Research, who does not deal with boys and only occasionally attends school, also does not solve the problems. Both the police and the prosecutor's office have mentioned that the Ministry should take clearer steps to resolve the situation in the special school. One of the measures mentioned is the increase in the salaries of supervisors, which I think has been partly done, but this has not improved the situation as a whole. In this context, we have put four questions to the Minister, which we hope to have clear answers to. Perhaps the Minister will read these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U59	Thank you very much, Mr Vaarmann. Please, esteemed Minister of Education and Science, once again to the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U60	Good President! Good ambassadors! I am talking about Tapa Special School, a little bit about Kaagvere Special School and Puiatus, which we no longer have, but which, in a sense, is a symbol of special schools that is shaping the minds of some people to this day. Before you start answering specific questions, I would like to say a few thoughts. It also seems strange, even unacceptable, to me that the Estonian state, which has been independent for more than 20 years, has not been able to create learning and living conditions for children with behavioural, mental and emotional disorders that correspond to today's perceptions, and that this is the situation in Tapa Special School and not only in Tapa Special School. It is not even about this rebellion or these rebellions, but about the culture that we still have, unfortunately, and not only in special schools, but also more broadly. There is a long way to go to realise that dealing with these young people must be based on their guilt and the corresponding pedagogical and educational concepts versus understanding and supporting the special needs of these people. One might say that Makarenko is too alive, even though physically he has long left, and this pedagogical paradigm should be a thing of the past. This is at the heart of the problem that we are dealing with at Tapa Special School. Specific unrest took place on 22 January, but we know that this is not a problem on 22 January; it has been there for longer. The environment that supports these children has not been created and, unfortunately, I did so myself when I was there on 5 February, and so did our specialists, that not only the physical environment and many attitudes of this school are inadequate, but our approach to children with special educational needs at all. Therefore, hope that this problem will be resolved within a month or two is a superficial attitude. But to say that we haven't done anything, and long before these riots, we can't. Already when the concept of organisation of education for children with special educational needs was completed, we reached three important conclusions, which we are now implementing in an accelerated manner. First, legislative changes. Today, it has been agreed that the draft law on interference in the child offence at the Ministry of Education and Research is expected to be integrated into the Child Protection Act and the Ministry of Social Affairs will bring the draft to this Riigikogu as soon as possible. The draft amends the philosophical basis, which continues to be a problem: the committees on minors, the penal component of special schools, which is too strong, stigmatising, etc. Another important change, which had already been made before these riots, was the structural restructuring which led to the joint management of Tapa Special School, Kaagvere Special School and Vastseliina School. This will allow more flexibility in the use of the pedagogical resource we have, and also in the flexibility to move students between different schools, should such a teaching need arise. Thirdly, the modernisation of infrastructure, i.e. the creation of a physical environment through a renewed infrastructure that allows children to be distinguished according to their specific needs and to what extent they must be subject to measures limiting freedom. This is a visible phase of a long process for the public. I would refrain from politicising it and, through it, from exerting unhealthy pressure on any one of these levels. Now specific questions. Question number one: 'In the last month, you said that the Ministry would immediately start looking for solutions to the problems of Tapa Special School. What measures have the Ministry taken to improve the situation within a month? " First of all, the current director of the sick leave Ene Kukk has been suspended from his duties. He or she has been given notice of termination of the employment contract in relation to the problems encountered in the closer examination at the school. However, I would like to say that this certainly does not mean that the change of leadership is the most important step taken, although it cannot be underestimated either. Several other workers whose qualifications unfortunately did not meet the standards that could be presented to this school have also left. New people have been found who are responsible for supervision, training and education. I believe that staff changes will continue, negotiations will be held. Secondly, the Acting Director, the current Director of Kaagvere Special School, has also reviewed the day-to-day life of children and changes have been made. In particular, they concern the separation of children with different special educational needs so that the negative effects cannot be passed on to the other. In addition, I have initiated the merger of special schools, which should allow more flexible use of pedagogical competences in these schools. The points concerning the rules governing administration, management and remuneration of schools have been substantially amended. Indeed, on-call workers were paid EUR 480 per month and it is quite clear that this level of pay does not allow the inclusion of suitably qualified people. The same financing model is capable of holding supervisors at Kaagvere Special School with a monthly salary of EUR 840 or almost twice the salary. It simply requires a better quality of management. Capacitance has been unacceptably high. Indeed, many have left, but it was inevitable, because the quality of completion was not as we would have liked to have seen. The ranks of supervisors have grown considerably, with nine supervisors in the March working time schedule compared to the four in January, hopefully eleven in April. I've already stopped at pay problems. My approach to solving these problems is quite rightly optimistic, although not overly optimistic. I believe that the longer-term steps, i.e. de facto integration of schools plus the new school building to be completed in 2016, will significantly improve conditions. We will suffer again, I think the Ministry of Education and Research has applied the best competence it has in this field to take across Estonia. I dare say that the reproaches, as if public funding were the main source of the problems, are not justified. It's just to be seen when comparing Kaagvere and Tapa to special school. The third question: 'What salary number would you consider sufficiently motivating to fill the positions of supervision staff at Tapa Special School? Does the Ministry have a wage adjustment plan? ' I have already stressed that the pay of supervisors should be higher. How big exactly does it have to be for the ministry to decide? This must be done by the head of the school, and the salary policy of the staff must be the responsibility of the head of the school. Of course, it has to be public, and it has to be known to the Ministry, but the Ministry does not want to take personnel decisions, including salary decisions, off the director's shoulders. The director must also be responsible for these decisions, but so far, unfortunately, it has been too much, as the monitoring has shown. The last question: 'What measures does the Ministry intend to take in the future so that the situation in Tapa Special School will finally be better? " It's turned to the better. I understand that the assessment of the questioners is different, but there are political reasons here for wanting to make the situation look worse. I don't want to overdramaticize the situation. The first steps have been taken to ensure the safety of workers and students. Unfortunately, there were shortcomings in the security of both sides, the violence crossed a firmly acceptable line, and that is why the primary objective was to establish "power" or "state will" in this school. It can now be said that this is more or less a satisfactory level of guarantee. In the near future, three schools with similar target groups will be merged into one institution at Tapa Erikol, Vastseliina Internship School and Kaagvere Erikol. They all deal with children with mental and behavioural disorders, but the way students are directed to school is different. We cannot consider a good practice to be a situation where some children with mental or behavioural disorders should, as if, expect an offence to be committed and the other part can be obtained through a guidance committee for the place of study that meets the needs. Understandably, the need-based approach of children requires substantial changes in the legal environment, whether in the form of a new version of the Child Protection Act or in the form of an intervention in the child's offence case. Both draft laws are already in the coordination phase. We are taking a step closer to need-based assistance by joining the three schools. According to the plan, on 1 September 2014 the combined management school will start work in three branches and the academic year before the completion of the new buildings will continue to harmonise work practice and culture. The construction of the new building of Tapa Special School has been completed and the winner of the procurement has been decided. In the near future, the same can happen for the new building of Kaagvere Special School. In addition, the public procurement has also been announced for the thorough renovation of Tallinn Konstantin Päts Open Air School building, which deals with students with emotional and behavioral disorders, in order to ensure a modern learning and education environment for Tallinn and other students in Northern Estonia. According to the plans, by 1 September 2015, the school network of students with mental and behavioural disorders will be organized, with up-to-date buildings and school organisation supporting education and education. The schools employ the best specialists in their field and the tools used to manage so far are directed at students. Such an optimistic conclusion for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U61	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's continue with the questions. Colleagues Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U62	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You call this a political reason why this issue has risen to the agenda, but you also made it very clear yourself that the problem has not arisen recently, but has been going on for a long time. If we consider that during the year, students have run away from Tapa school 1800 times, if we consider that they have not been away for one day, but sometimes for several days, that is five to seven runaways per day, then it is no longer a matter of politics but of unfinished ministry work. What makes it very sad is that when I tried to communicate with the school, it turned out that the Ministry had literally banned communication with everyone, including members of the Riigikogu. If you are going to be on this side of the hall in the near future, do you think it is also right that a member of the Riigikogu, who is a member of the Committee on Culture, should not communicate with a school where there are such major problems?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U63	I'll start with that last complaint. It is not known to me that the Ministry of Education and Research can prohibit anyone from communicating, even more so, I feel that such an arrangement cannot be given at all. I get the impression either you've been misled or there's some other reason why you've come to this conclusion. As far as the law is concerned, as concerns discretion, specific students and specific data, I will, of course, withdraw from this area. It must also be noted that public attention to the events at Tapa Special School is largely and often also an incentive for these students to act. This is one of the places where, on the one hand, transparency, openness is positive, understandable and certainly also necessary, but it would be very superficial to be conduct that initiates or motivates children who learn in these institutions to act in response to the need for attention. This has in many ways been the reason for introducing some restrictions, including in communication with the press. I hope that there is a misunderstanding here and perhaps not sufficient mutual explanations as to why access to persons and school activities is limited in certain cases. I do not know whether this has been the basis for restricting the possibility for members of the Riigikogu to become acquainted with the situation. I hope not.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U64	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister for Education and Science. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U65	Please, if anyone wants to sign up for a free microphone speech, do it after the hammer hit! Mr Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U66	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, dear TV viewers! We're living in an interesting time right now. Very interesting events are taking place in the world. In a large country in the middle of Europe there is a coup d'état, a riot, a revolution, depending on which side to look at. The Russians are putting paddles on Crimea to rip it off Ukraine and drive it away. In Estonia there is a change of government, capitalists and socialists putting their backs together to start improving the world. But the world will live on. The world develops technologies, develops agriculture and production, collects statistics, compiles all sorts of fine data. For example, military indices are assembled. The military index is calculated for about 200 countries and Estonia was 26th in the last year's military index. Well, well, well, well. The Latvians are in 90. Estonia was somewhere 30 years ago. Russia, China and Syria are now ahead of us, including the fine military states. Of course, we have 2% of our defense expenses. These are normal expenses. China has defence costs of 12%, for example, although China is not at war with anyone. By the way, the military index is calculated by comparing defence costs with social costs, in particular health. The fact that we have low social costs, low health care costs, raises our military index to the sky. And as long as we can't replay our budget in any other way, that's not gonna change. But it's not just about redeploying the budget. Where, however, does this money come from to channel health care, the social sphere, including defence costs? This is called a percentage of GDP. The contradiction is that the state settles as a percentage: we are shown one, the other or the third percentage. We allocate 6.1% to health expenditure very good! The Finns have 9% and the Swedes have 10%, but okay, we're good too. Only people do not settle in percentage terms, people settle in euro. People understand what money is because that percentage doesn't buy bread-and-bread, no medicine, no gasoline for a car, it doesn't buy anything. And here is the interesting tendency that our circumstances are compared to those of other countries. By the way, exactly as was done in Crimea, when 86% of the Crimeans there voted in favour of Russia's accession, and the percentage of pro-Russians was 97, if I am not mistaken, that was the latest data. They looked at the average wage in Russia, the average pension in Russia, how stable Russia's development is compared to that in Ukraine, and they voted for a higher wage, a higher pension, stability and a better business environment, and against less corruption. They say there were people with Russian passports voting for the dead. But listen, when it comes to the fact that the neighbor has a much higher salary, the dead also rise from the grave and vote completely understandable! You know, for Estonia, the most important thing is the security of the state, the integrity of our territory, the preservation of our people and our language from there begins our constitution. And if it is known that Russia currently has an average salary of 800 euros, it is dangerous, it is a threat to the country. Our government has not thought about it, juggling with percentages, has not thought about what will happen if Estonians reconsider their stupid joke that we will declare war on Sweden and surrender in five minutes. But in Russia, if wages grow one and a half times higher, this is a real security threat. You gotta think about that! But our outgoing government hasn't thought about that, and I don't know if the new government is thinking about it. But you have to think about it! We need to increase our GDP. If there are new jobs, good economy and agriculture, trade with other countries, good neighbourly relations, then the people will live well, keep their country, their country, their language and their government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U67	Oh, how hard!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U68	Here's the microphone.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U69	Please, Mr Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U70	Dear people! I want to share with you the positive emotions created by yesterday's concert in support of Ukraine in Liberty Square. Despite the rather bad weather, thousands of people, young people, old and healthy families had arrived to express their support and appreciation for the Ukrainian people and the Ukrainian state, for those who fell on Maidan, and for those who fought and fought for free, independent and European Ukraine. I would like to express my sincere thanks to the Estonian Human Rights Centre, on whose behalf this concert took place, all performers and viewers! Such concerts and support actions take place on these anxious days all over the world, with concerts, meetings, processions. One such procession took place in Moscow on Saturday. Although the official Moscow authorities say that some 3,000 people were present, the organisers' and observers' estimates are a little different: according to them, 50,000 to 70,000 people were present. I myself watched this march and the ensuing speech meeting, and it seems to me that the figure between 50,000 and 70,000 is correct. These thousands of people gathered to protest against Russia's intervention in neighbouring Ukraine. One of the main novels that sounded like this was Russia and Ukraine without Putin, for you and for our freedom! These people protested against the war, they are thoughtful and intelligent people who want Ukraine to be free and remain free and independent, and that Russia, too, is a modern democratic state that the rest of the world does not hate, it is not afraid, and its friends are not only North Korea and Venezuela. All these support actions took place at a time when a referendum was held in Crimea, the results of which were known in advance. We know that over 96% of the participants supported the accession of Crimea to Russia. I myself am a member of the Estonian delegation of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly and I also have the experience of an election observer. Unfortunately, I was unable to participate as an observer in this referendum. This is because the OSCE has abandoned the observation of the Crimean referendum because it is contrary to the Ukrainian constitution, it is not a free, impartial and legitimate process. Today, we already know that the first sanctions against Russia are being implemented. The European Union and the United States have decided to prohibit certain people, Russian and Ukrainian citizens, from entering their territory and have also decided to freeze assets. Estonia supports these official positions. We hope that the situation in Ukraine will stabilise, that the conflict that has now erupted will end peacefully and that no drop of blood will fall on the ground again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-17_U71	Thank you very much, Mr Olga Soldier. There's no more calls. Our hearing is adjourned. Thank you. Closure of the sitting at 4.36 p.m.
