ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the Tuesday session of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu on the 18th working week. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. Please, Siim Kisler!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I have nine members of the Riigikogu who belong to the IRL Group to report to the Auditor General. This concerns the ferry connection to Hiiumaa and Saaremaa. On 12 June, the Cabinet announced unexpectedly to the public that the State would announce the procurement of the operator with a view to the next 10 years. The explanations of this change of mind to the public have been inadequate and obviously contradictory, not a word has been said about the costs of this move for the state. We therefore want to know from the Auditor General what his assessment of such a government decision is. We want to know whether the terms of the operator procurement contained in the memorandum on which the government decision was based are considered to be targeted procurement conditions. We ask the Auditor General what estimates are based on the government's decision to call for tender to find the operator with the ships, and we also want to know which business plan the government's decision in this regard was based on and whether the Auditor General considers it justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U3	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U4	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, According to our Home and Working Procedures Act, I will hand over to the Management Board of the Riigikogu a report on the activities of the Special Committee on State Budget Control covering the period July 2013 to June 2014. During the reporting period, the Commission has carried out 53 meetings, 36 inspection reports have been underway, in addition to one special session, two joint sessions, three field visits and three major conference hall discussions. A report has been drawn up entitled 'Organisation of local roads', which was also discussed in this large hall. On 20 pages, the entire work has been reported in more detail and in more detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U5	Thank you. Please, Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U6	The Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu proposes to initiate the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Revocation of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Estonian Development Fund and the appointment of new members." Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U7	Thank you. On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one draft and the Management Board decides to adopt it in accordance with our Home and Rules of Procedure Act. I have also accepted an inquiry on behalf of the Bureau. If it complies with the provisions of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu shall forward it to the addressee without delay. I have also adopted one report. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 82 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present; no 19. I will clarify today's agenda. Today's tenth item of the agenda, the draft law amending the Citizenship Act initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group, 645 at the first reading discussion, will be presented by the initiator's member Eldar Efendiev of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U8	We're going to the agenda today. The first point is the first reading of the Riigikogu's decision to appoint "Malle Seppiku as a member of the Supreme Court" by Priit Pikamäe, President of the Supreme Court. I would like to present the Chair of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr Rait Maruste!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U9	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As the President noted, Priit Pikamäe, President of the Supreme Court, initiated the draft. He did so on 23 May this year and the draft was discussed in the Commission on Monday, 9 June. Let me be clear: the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has decided to send the draft to its first reading by 17 June, that is to say, today and also to adopt it as a decision. At the meeting of the committee, Ms Priit Pikamäe, President of the Supreme Court, and Ms Malle Seppik, member of the Supreme Court, were invited. Priit Pikamäe explained that, as of 10 July, the Supreme Court will have a vakantsk because, according to the legislator's decision, the powers of a member of the Supreme Court, a judge of a civil college, Lea Laarmaa, will end in the Supreme Court. The President of the Supreme Court announced a competition to fill the vacuture. A total of four candidates were nominated, exclusively from inside the judicial system. After hearing the views of the General Assembly of the Supreme Court and the Advisory Board on the Administration of Courts, the President of the Supreme Court came to the conclusion that Malle Seppik, the Chairman of the Civil Chamber of the Tallinn Circuit Court, is the most dignified candidate of this competition. Priit Pikamäe explained that Malle Seppiku is a mature, dignified candidate who has run the civil judicial college for years, participated in almost all the current draft laws on private law, participated in the training of judges, etc. The members of the committee asked various questions to both the candidate and the Chairman of the Supreme Court. They concerned the constitutional oversight system, the wider judiciary, the relative over-regulation of the legal order, the responsibility of the state and other issues. The members of the Commission received satisfactory answers and, in summary, none of the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs expressed any opposition to Ms Seppik's candidacy. Malle Seppik is a mature person, a balanced and progressive judge who would fit into the civil college of the Supreme Court. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs decided to support the nomination of Ms Seppik. We proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda for today, that a final vote be taken and that a speaker be appointed as rapporteur. And the last decision was to propose, in accordance with § 117 (3) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, that Ms Malle Seppik, a candidate for a member of the Supreme Court, should make a presentation before the Riigikogu's plenary session for up to five minutes. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U10	Thank you very much. It is now possible to ask questions. Before we begin, I will specify that each member of the Riigikogu may ask one question to both rapporteurs. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U11	Thank you, Mr President. Good chairman of the committee! It needs to be clarified that at the meeting of the committee we did not take a position on whether or not we support a candidate for a member of the Supreme Court. It's not one of our procedures. We decided to send the draft to this Chamber and put it to the final vote, not how we will ultimately decide on this issue. But my question concerns the procedure as such. At the moment, we have a situation where both Parliament and the Commission have the right to rely solely on the proposal of the President of the Supreme Court and decide whether to take or leave the candidate. However, there are countries where more than one candidate is proposed and Parliament and the Commission have the right to choose between them. How do you feel about which procedure is best for us?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U12	On your line, I say that I may have expressed in many ways. However, since no one in the Commission expressed any opposition or disagreement with the candidacy, I read that the Commission supported Malle Seppik. As far as the procedure is concerned, you are right: there are countries, as well as international courts, where the candidate is chosen from among three. In other cases, even gender and other parameters have been provided to enable the decision-makers to choose which candidate they support. It's a place to think about us. So far, the procedure has worked, but I think that election would be real for the legislator if three candidates were submitted to the Riigikogu for decision. That might make sense. But this idea still needs to be worked out.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U13	Thank you. Please, Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U14	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! As we know, there were more candidates. Was there a debate in the Commission on this, and was it known who the other candidates were? And what were the specific advantages that made this choice? Was there a debate on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U15	We discussed this very briefly in the committee, but we are bound by the fact that the President of the Supreme Court is submitting a candidate in our procedure. At the same time, as an alternate to the court administration council, I was familiar with the whole competition. When all the candidates were present at the meeting of the Court Administration Advisory Board, they were presented and interviewed there. In the end, the President of the Supreme Court made a decision. That's his procedural right to do that.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U16	Thank you. Please, Thomas Tõniste!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U17	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! When you discussed this draft, what were the Members of the Commission most interested in?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U18	I briefly marked what I was interested in. The tematics was wide, from the organisation of constitutional oversight. After all, in his recent presentation, the President of the Supreme Court presented to the Riigikogu the idea that Members of the Riigikogu, either as a political group or as a committee, could probably have the right to submit an application to the Supreme Court under constitutional supervision to declare a draft incompatible with the Constitution. We discussed this, and we also talked about what the insufficient regulation of the liability of the state has to do with justice. Other issues arose that were not directly related to the nomination of Malle Seppik.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U19	Thank you. Please, Annely Akkermann!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U20	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable speaker! Malle Seppiku has a long and versatile career in the Estonian judicial system and is undoubtedly a dignified candidate. But perhaps the other candidates were also serious and competent. What do you consider to be the main argument why Mrs Seppik has been presented to the large hall today?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U21	It is true that Malle Seppiku has a long career behind him, but this career has been stable rather than diverse. He has been a judge of the Tallinn Circuit Court and Chairman of the Civil Chamber for a very long time. The legal career of the other candidates has been as long, but I repeat, we did not have a choice between these people. In our committee, we had to make a decision about the candidate who was presented to us by the President of the Supreme Court. He shall have the right to propose one candidate. This is the case at the moment, and we are in a situation where either we agree to appoint this person or we reject him and the process begins again. This is, of course, a question of future developments. This is the current procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U22	Thank you. Please, Urmas Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U23	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You gave a rather conspicuous overview of the debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. As has always been the case with such issues, the debate in the Commission was broader. This time we also discussed the proposal of Priit Pikamäe, the head of the Supreme Court, to consider whether not to grant the right to initiate a constitutional review procedure in addition to the Chancellor of Justice to the political group of the Riigikogu. The President of the Supreme Court explained his views and there was a discussion on this subject. I would ask you to refer it to this great hall and to express your personal position as well!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U24	Yeah, like I said, it was a subject of discussion. The author of the question raised this question and thought that we could exchange views on this issue within the Commission. Indeed, there is a possibility that the opposition or the political group, or simply a group of MPs, will apply to the court for constitutional review, it will be the Constitutional Court or some other institution. This is not a new thing, it is quite common and it is up to us to decide whether or not we will extend the circle of persons or institutions entitled to apply for constitutional supervision in Estonia as well. This is a question of future discussions. My view is that the nature of our constitutional review is very judge-centred. Priit Pikamäe also stated that all matters of constitutional supervision come from the courts. It's too central to lawyers or courts. In order for the constitutional debate to reach a broader field, a more political spectrum, it might make sense to consider this idea and take the step we are talking about. But it all needs to be negotiated and discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U25	Thank you. Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U26	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Commission. Was Malle Seppiku's role in the process of Johannes Hindi discussed in the Commission, or was the Commission not interested in it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U27	This issue was not discussed in the Commission. Nobody brought it up.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U28	Thank you. Please, Juhan Parts!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U29	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Honourable waitress! We know that the esteemed Mrs. Malle Seppik lives in Tallinn and the Supreme Court is located in Tartu. This was a dignified decision at the beginning of the 1990s and this institution will remain there in Tartu. When the Riigikogu approves Mrs Seppiku as a judge of state, she clearly incurs additional costs. How much are these costs and are they intended to be covered by the state budget or do budget improvements need to be initiated? According to the draft proposed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mrs Seppik would therefore be in office on 1 September 2014 already in that financial year.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U30	This issue was not discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. You can immediately ask the candidate yourself for the costs of the new job. I do not believe that it is necessary to make provision for state budget expenditure or to change the procedures in force.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U31	Thank you. Please, Peter Laurson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U32	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! In which case would the Constitutional Committee not have brought the candidate proposed by the President of the Supreme Court into this large hall? What would these conditions have been?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U33	To this great hall, we should have given this decision one way or another. It was up to us to decide whether we would support the candidacy or propose the rejection, but the final decision must be made in the big hall anyway.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U34	Thank you. Please, Jaak Aaviksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U35	Thank you. The Constitutional Committee and you yourself took a relatively formalistic position and considered that the appointment of a member of the Supreme Court should be based primarily and even solely on the proposals of the Supreme Court. Do you consider it possible, in principle, that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs take a more active view of the appointment of members of the Supreme Court and that it also pursues more general political aspects of constitutionality?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U36	Yes, I have already said in the light of previous questions that perhaps the legislator could be given a real choice in the decision-making process. Perhaps it would be wise to go this way, that the President of the Supreme Court presents three candidates to the legislator, among whom a choice is made. This is the case in the European Court of Human Rights, for example, and the Court of Justice of the European Union is also moving in that direction in Luxembourg.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U37	Thank you. Please, Siim Kisler!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U38	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You said that this topic was not discussed in the Commission, but do you personally know Malle Seppik's role in the Johannes Hindi process? What was it like? Why don't you enlighten us?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U39	I do not know the details of the Johannes Hindi process. If you have any problems, you can ask the candidate yourself. But I assure you that throughout the period of independence, Malle Seppik has worked honestly and deeply as a judge, and his reputation is very good.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U40	Thank you. Please, Marko Pomerance!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U41	Thanks! Mr Aaviksoo asked such a wise question that I did not know what was going on at first. But now that you have responded nicely, my question has been linked to European experience. If, for example, three candidates are actually submitted by anyone, then it is expected that all of them will be good judges with proper practice. Can you give examples of what criteria have finally become decisive? On what basis has it been found that one of the three very good candidates is the best one?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U42	These criteria may vary. One example is that two of the three candidates should be of one sex, the third should be of another sex. There is certainly an age criterion that determines which age range candidates should belong to. The third, perhaps the most important, is the qualification criterion. A previous career should show, give evidence of human experience and knowledge. And, of course, the personal qualities, prestige, renome that candidates have are also important.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U43	Thank you. Please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U44	Madam President! Good waitress! When you answered one question, you said that you yourself participated in the work of the committee that discussed the candidates for the Supreme Court. Did the opinion of the committee and the candidate proposed by the President of the Supreme Court coincide?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U45	We're talking about the court administration council, which I'm an alternate, and I was at a meeting when the candidacy was discussed. All the candidates were present. The other candidates were Andra Pärsimägi, Andres Hallmägi and the fourth name I can't remember right now. He's a first-degree judge, a relatively unknown person to me, but he performed well. There were people who supported Malle Seppik, and there were those who supported other candidates. There was a spectrum of rather outgoing opinions. But once again, according to the current procedure, the President of the Supreme Court is the person who will finally present the candidate. It is possible that the President of the Supreme Court could have made a decision to submit the three candidates that seemed most suitable for him and then we could have made that choice. But he didn't do anything wrong when he presented this one person, just as it has been so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U46	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you, Rait Maruse! And now Malle Seppik, who is a member of the Supreme Court, receives the floor for a presentation of up to five minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U47	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu, thank you for the opportunity to speak to you. It is not possible to submit your action plan when applying for membership of the Supreme Court. The judge is the person applying the law and the outcome of the dispute depends primarily on the law, be it substantive or procedural law. The right is, however, a tool for the implementation of Parliament's policies, including judicial policy. I can only promise that I will do my job according to my best knowledge and skills. Since my specialty is the resolution of disputes arising from private law relations, I would like to mention a few topical problems in this area. One of the most important things I consider to be the balance between the speed of judicial proceedings, the quality of the settlement of the case and the costs involved in the procedure, and by quality I mean both the way in which civil proceedings are dealt with and the correctness and justification of judicial decisions, but, in the case of expenditure, their size is important both to the State and to the parties to the proceedings. It is not easy to find a balance, but it is precisely whether a civil matter can be resolved within a reasonable period of time, at the right and lowest possible cost, that determines the quality of the court's proceedings, as well as the credibility of the court in general. A swift but unjustified decision will not solve the problem of which the court has been seised and will also entail additional costs for judicial proceedings. A correct and perfectly reasoned solution may be totally irrelevant if it has taken an unreasonable long time to do so and the relationship at issue has changed so that the parties to the proceedings have lost any substantive interest in the decision. In this case, the costs of judicial proceedings become pointless at all. If the main contribution is to the effectiveness of court proceedings, the matter may be solved at low cost, but the deeper content of justice remains in the background. One of the issues discussed in general public has been the slowness of judicial proceedings. We must agree that not all civil matters will be settled within a reasonable period of time. However, the question of how civil matters can be dealt with more quickly, while respecting the rules of the competitive process, respecting the rights of the parties to legal proceedings and ensuring that the right and reasonable solution is reached by the parties. The rules of judicial procedure are laid down in the law and a certain degree of prudence in these rules is a prerequisite for a fair procedure. Frequent and extensive changes to the rules of the case will lead to difficulties not only for parties to proceedings who find it difficult to know them, but also for judges who have to devote a significant part of the time needed to resolve the dispute to the formulation and interpretation of the legislation. Frequently changing standards do not provide enough case-law and are also more likely to make mistakes. At the same time, even a seemingly simple legislative amendment could lead to a large increase in the workload for the courts, as happened with the increase in state fees. Reaching the law without conflicting circumstances and lasting law is one of the factors that would allow the length of the proceedings to be shortened in specific cases. Here, the Riigikogu has its weighty word to say. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U48	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Siim Kisler!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U49	Thank you. Honourable waitress! As we know, the Supreme Court acknowledged relatively recently certain provisions of the Pharmaceutical Act as incompatible with the Constitution, but nevertheless the majority of the Riigikogu imposed the same restrictions on the establishment of pharmacies with the same calm, without even denying that they are contrary to the Constitution. And the president declared the law. How should judges of state behave in such a situation? How can such matters be resolved? How can the Constitution be enforced as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U50	The rules of conduct of state judges in such a situation are laid down in the Constitutional Review Courts Act, and there is no way for state judges to transcend or transcend it. This is a question of legal culture, and the Supreme Court discusses this situation if there are legal assumptions. The Supreme Court cannot step out of the footsteps imposed by the law for its purposes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U51	Thank you. Please, Andrus Island!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U52	Thank you. Good waitress! What is your position as a candidate for the Supreme Court on the question of whether members of the Riigikogu may and should belong to the councils of state companies or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U53	I would still like to stick to the skills and competences of the judiciary to make certain assessments. I would not like to make any political assessments. I believe that this is Parliament's decision-making power, and Parliament must seriously consider this when it makes a decision on this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U54	Thank you. Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U55	Thank you. Honourable candidate for a judge! Judicial and justice are very complex and responsible work. We had the opportunity to meet you in the group, and I so understood you that the conviction of Johannes Hindi in its time was perfectly legitimate and justified, and his rehabilitation was not justified. Did I misunderstand you or not, and do you still agree?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U56	Pretty much like you said, I haven't said. But with this, I'm probably gonna have to explain something. I had worked as a detective for a few years when I was assigned to this study group. In the study group, the research lines were divided, and it was my job to study herbs. I didn't find out anything criminal in this line, and nobody, not John Hindi, or any other person in the administration was charged with any kind of charge. There was another little episode of my investigation involving the head accountant and his work outside the Desintegator. He was also in a housing cooperative, where he had an apartment, a head accountant, and there he had pocketed the money. There were no problems with this investigation; this person fully confessed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U57	Thank you. Please, Priit Onion!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U58	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I have a question from a completely different area, and it concerns the termination of pregnancy without medical indication. The Chancellors of Justice, one is Allar Jõks and the other is Indrek Teder, have reached quite different points of view in the legal analysis of this issue. I would like to know what your position is, how well the Constitution protects the life of an unborn person, and how well it protects the right of a woman to decide on her body's governance. At present, the Chancellor of Justice has addressed Parliament with regard to the issue of abortion of minors. Do you think that an abortion of less than 14 years of age should be granted the consent of your parents, or is he or she entitled to make a personal decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U59	I wouldn't want to take any political stand like that. If there is a dispute about the provisions that Parliament adopts in court proceedings, then the Constitutional Review College of the Supreme Court is, of course, also obliged to form its own opinion. But I wouldn't want to do it in advance myself.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U60	Thank you. Please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U61	Thank you, good manager. Good candidate! I have a question about the court's work. Maybe you can answer it. It often happens that in the press or elsewhere in the public, someone is slandered and overslaughted with mud. He should go to court for his protection, but hiring a lawyer is expensive. Sometimes, however, a person goes to court and finally gets justice. How do you think people who try to slander someone and make false accusations should be punished?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U62	That is a very interesting question, but it is very difficult to answer. I agree that in our legal system, opportunities to defend their honour and good name are not very effective. This really brings about a very complex and long civil procedure, with high costs. And that is not the only difficult factor in such things. These things are of a very personal nature, of an insult or attack, and often because they have a very personal relationship, they are unable to defend their rights even if they are a lawyer. I also see a serious problem here on the basis of case law, but I do not have any solutions to suggest how the situation could be improved. It has been Parliament's decision that there is no criminal liability for such acts, and I think this is Parliament's decision-making area here too.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U63	Thank you. Please, Reet Roos!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U64	Dear waitress, Fortunately, the reputation of the courts, the judiciary and also the judges is very high in Estonia, compared to that of the Riigikogu, for example. In my opinion, the Estonian people trust the courts and accept most of the solutions. But some time ago we met a lady like Galojan who, as far as I know, is still hiding in England, somewhere in London. What do you think you should do to prevent this galloic behavior from becoming systemic? Do you have any suggestions for amending the law to the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U65	Do you mean that he is hiding in another country and is not available to Estonian law enforcement authorities? I think that transnational cooperation will help here, that is why transnational agreements have been concluded and rules have been laid down. They should be followed, the competent authorities should do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U66	Thank you. Please, Jaak Aaviksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U67	A candidate for a good Supreme Court Member! During your long-term work, you have certainly developed an opinion on Estonian legal culture in general. You have quite thoroughly and, in my opinion, very pleasantly analysed the balance between the speed and quality of reaching judgments. At the same time, we are also in the process of seeking another point of balance in the case law. It concerns the meaning of the law and the meaning of the law, or the balance between standards and more general values. Are you ready to answer this question as well and explain which way you think that Estonian justice should move more, either towards valuing the letter of the law or the thought?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U68	I do not think that these two things can be separated, because all interpretation methods also require that the purpose and meaning of the law be sought. So there's no way to separate the letter of the law from the meaning of the law. Of course, it is always helpful to have the letter of the law written very clearly and not to allow conflicts to arise, which will always help you to get to the point of the law. But, as I said, without understanding the meaning of the law, it is not possible to apply the law. The meaning of the law must always be understood, and even any judge who settles a dispute cannot be done differently, except in the sense of asking for the meaning of the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U69	Thank you. Please, Marko Pomerance!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U70	Thanks! I fully agree with you on this point that you cannot make political assessments, especially if you do not want to. The appointment procedure is different. But I am asking in the last few days about the exciting political discussion on the need for a cohabitation law. As a judge, you've dealt with civil matters, and you have a very broad internship. What are the problems that, in the light of this bill, have come to you as a judge and which really need the legislator to intervene in order to clarify the situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U71	I do not recall that there was one thing in my proceedings where the problem would have arisen from such an angle. However, to comment more broadly, I think that every person has the right to live as he likes, if he does not violate the rights and interests of others. Whether this law is necessary or not, I do not know whether you meant it, then I cannot answer that question. Everything depends on what is specifically regulated and what the purpose of this bill is. I owe you an answer right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U72	Thank you. Please, Juhan Parts!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U73	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Dear Mrs Seppik! I have been able to work with you for a long time in my life, and I appreciate your experience and knowledge very much. I am simply taking this opportunity to ask you from the high court to express your opinion as an experienced lawyer, a judge and also a citizen. The question also concerns the swift and effective legal proceedings covered by your speech and its relationship with the economy. You have dealt very much with economic and private matters. Please say three things that need to be changed so that judicial proceedings are quicker and more effective and that this will improve the competitiveness of our country in the economy. Let us be honest, if we look at the competitiveness indicators of the Estonian state, we will see that we are relatively behind this. What are the three recommendations to the Riigikogu from this court?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U74	As I have tried to emphasise, in my opinion, in civil proceedings, the three objectives, which are also clearly stated in the law, are so closely linked that it is not possible to raise others to the shield without harming one of the objectives. There is no possibility of urgent judicial proceedings without taking into account the rights and interests of the parties to the proceedings in the competitive process. After all, in the competitive process, the parties to the proceedings are those who exercise procedural rights, and the State has given them an instrument in the form of a court to settle disputes between them. Judicial proceedings can become ridiculous if they only contribute to the speed of judicial proceedings. In my brief speech, I tried to place the emphasis on this particular balance. I believe that finding this balance is one of the most important factors if the court wants to be credible and to be credible. So I do not think that any urgent procedure is in the interests of the parties to the proceedings and that any urgent procedure is good. A quick procedure may lead to unjustified costs for the parties to the proceedings and not resolve any of them. So I am not ready to make three recommendations now, but I would like to emphasise once again that it is precisely the balance that is important.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U75	Thank you. Please, Erki Arrow!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U76	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Member of the Supreme Court! I will continue with the question of Juhan Parts. You said, in commenting on the speed of the trial, that quick processing can seem and be ridiculous. However, you also said that without damaging one factor, you cannot highlight the other. But we have some examples of neighbouring countries, and England was also mentioned here. When the riots broke out, Britain's courts worked 24 hours and over 900 people were sent to the police in a few days. Our parallel from 2007 is a process in which the case was dealt with in a very long and thorough manner and people felt insulted after the judgment. So where's the balance after all?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U77	You're inviting me to a field of criminal law and criminal proceedings where I'm probably not the right worker, the right plower. But in general, I know that we have also had situations where criminal judges have worked incessantly, they have guards. Nothing that's really fast is gonna go unsolved. But I had in mind my specialty, my civil procedure, and precisely that it is not possible to make a good and well-founded, understandable decision if it is taken into account that the parties are exercising their procedural rights and that they want to do everything very quickly. And neither the civil courts of Estonia are in a comparison between courts when compared with the courts of other countries, nowhere at the end. Statistics on Estonian courts are quite good. However, I do not want to put so much emphasis on statistics as on the substance of the processes. There is a reasonable time for everything, and this reasonable time can only be reasonable for this matter. In order to assess this, the process must be looked at comprehensively and take into account what it requires, how complex these requirements are, how the parties to proceedings exercise their rights, what applications they have made, what evidence has been provided, etc. If all this has been thoroughly analysed, it is possible to make a well-founded and correct judgment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U78	Thank you. Please, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U79	Thank you, Mr President. A candidate for a good Supreme Court Member! I want to ask you about everyday case law. In fact, I dare say that in re-independence Estonia, very many of the decisions of the Court of First Instance are appealed. In a court of second instance, the district court has had very many decisions of the Court of First Instance changed and different decisions have been made. Is my statement correct? Is this percentage high in Estonia when you look at the difference between the decisions of the Court of First and the Court of Second Instance? And if my argument is correct, I would like to hear your opinion on what this situation is about. As far as I am concerned, the parties to the proceedings have stated that they never know which decisions are coming, and they have been contradictory to each other. Would you like to comment?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U80	I don't have the statistics available right now, but I don't want to agree that a very large number of decisions are being appealed. Statistics alone do not give the right picture of the quality of court proceedings. In some cases, it may not be possible to appeal; in some cases, the parties have some other motives as to why they do not appeal, not the fact that they agree with the decision. For example, there is fear of procedural costs or there is a desire to end the dispute, to achieve peace. So it is not possible to assess the quality of court proceedings on the basis of this percentage of appeal alone, other aspects should also be taken into account. I dare not say by heart how much of the county courts' decisions are challenged in civil matters, but that is not a very high percentage. At the Circuit Court, we are currently updating the court's information system, so I was unable to get some pretty recent data. It will take time until all these data are correctly usable. But if I tell you from memory, about 30% of the appeals we're gonna cancel. This is not a very big indicator. It could be different for years, 30, 40, maybe 25%. Somewhere in this range, the number of cancellations remains, and the district court itself makes a new decision in the vast majority of the annulled decisions. This means that the matter will be referred back to the County Court for further consideration only if procedural rules have been infringed so thoroughly that it is not possible to correct errors in the second instance. But if you ask about quality in general, I think you can always do better. The complaint that the case law is fickle is relevant. On certain issues, that is indeed the case. But the problems as to why he's fickle should be analysed more broadly. I have already talked about legislation, about the quality of the law, especially about the fact that there is a great deal of law change. This always brings great confusion in the case-law and takes time before the interpretations of the case-law are put in place so that the judgments of the higher courts can be guided. Of course, 20 years in the life of an independent state is not long enough to implement a complete legal reform. After all, many judges have not acquired this so-called new right at the university, but have learned it on the side of the work, on a case-by-case basis. That, in my opinion, is also one of the reasons why the quality of judgments is not much better. But there are many reasons, and I think that they should be analysed in order to reach some very reasoned and clear positions. However, there is nothing disastrous about the quality of our judicial decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U81	Thank you. Please, Annely Akkermann!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U82	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Malle Seppik, the Honorable Member of the Supreme Court! When you were preparing for this application, you were certainly familiar with the recent decisions of the Supreme Court. A few years ago, the Supreme Court ruled on the creation of an adequate budget base for the performance of the tasks assigned to local governments. In particular, the Supreme Court considered that sufficient budgetary resources had not been allocated to local governments to guarantee their autonomy. In recent years, the Riigikogu has tried in vain to reform the administrative organisation of Estonia, but has not reached politically. Do you think there is anything more the Supreme Court can do to implement more effectively the constitutional principle of autonomy of local governments?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U83	I think that if the Supreme Court is approached with questions that are within its jurisdiction, then the Supreme Court will definitely make its decision. But it is not possible to start organising it on your own initiative. It is still the responsibility of Parliament and the government and their concern about how to organise the implementation of decisions. The way decisions of the Supreme Court are enforced in such general matters is a question of legal culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U84	Thank you. Please, Peter Laurson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U85	Thank you, Mr President. A candidate for a good Supreme Court Member! It's about taxation. What is your opinion as to whether advertising charges in local governments may be in conflict with the Constitution, as the tax rate is not provided for by law and is delegated to the local government council?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U86	A very slippery path would be to begin to judge here on this board whether or not some provision of law is contrary to the Constitution. All the more so because taxation is an administrative line that is not my specialty. So I would not like to begin to assess whether there is consistency or incompatibility with the constitution in this particular case.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U87	Thank you. Please, Thomas Tõniste!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U88	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I ask from Galojan's example, which has offended many people's sense of justice. What can the state, the judicial system in the future, do better, faster, more effectively so that convicted people cannot simply flee Estonia and enjoy life in another country peacefully, while they have been convicted?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U89	The question of the execution of decisions is a separate line, for which we have an enforcement system. As I have already answered one previous question here, I believe that these issues must be resolved on the basis of transnational agreements.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U90	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U91	Thank you, manager. Honorable Member of the Supreme Court! Do you not feel that courts are also being burdened with all kinds of unfounded complaints? Let me give you an example. Recently, it is well-fashioned that people complain about changing school arrangements after decisions by local governments. In fact, it is the task of the local government to organise the school network and to prevent it from being brought to court, for which there is a county governor. If the mayor does not carry out his duties, does the court really have to start discussing these matters and setting up a school network?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U92	Everything that falls within the jurisdiction of the court comes directly from the law. If it is not for the court to discuss a question, the court shall not take such a complaint into consideration. If it has been mistakenly done by the lower court, the higher court can appeal against it, and the higher court will decide whether or not the court has jurisdiction. But once again, specifically from this remote point of view, to say how I should be dealt with in this matter, I am not in a position to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U93	Thank you. Please, Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U94	Thank you, Mr President. Honorable Member of the Supreme Court! The former President of the Supreme Court, Märt Rask, has also given us recommendations for work and other suggestions. One of his urgent recommendations was that the legislator's Parliament should not rush to amend the laws. He stressed that continuity and balance are important, and that every first mistake should not have to be immediately corrected before thinking several times and then just starting to change the law. Today we have a change to the pension system on the agenda. The law that has come into force is proposed to amend the pension for those currently retired to be reduced by the amount of parental pension. What do you think of such continuity?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U95	Basically, I agree with Mr Rask's position and I feel exactly the same way that we should always think very carefully before the law is amended. But there's nothing I can say about a specific bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U96	Please, Tiina Lock-Tramberg!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U97	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, honourable Member of the Supreme Court. My question concerns the news that exploded in the newspapers some time ago. One court case was closed because the deadlines had expired, and it involved a murder case. Something must be very wrong in our judicial system if such cases are not one or two but more. And the Galojan case will end up in this same line. Do you see an opportunity to make a difference here? And how should such cases react at all? Let's face it, that's a pretty drastic story.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U98	I'm not familiar with this particular case. I don't know what you mean. But this is an area of criminal proceedings and criminal law, where some limitation periods are generally accepted. They just have to be. But I don't know if that was the case or not in the particular case. Once again, going on a very slippery ice would be to begin to make estimates based on some of your superficial feelings. That's what I want to avoid.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U99	Thank you. Please, Igor Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U100	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable candidate for a judge! I know you on the basis of a joint job episode as an extremely just, thorough, systematic and patient person. And I'm really glad you're here today. But I want to ask you one thing. In this joint work episode, too, the subject ran through. We have a situation in which public undertakings are governed by private law. Eesti Energia is a pattern example, it is a pure state institution, but there are others. The leaders of Eesti Energia do not know what to do, whether they have to produce money or electricity. The story we shared was about water, and the question in the air was exactly the same as giving water or making money. Isn't there something a little wrong with the legal system?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U101	Thank you. We are in a bit of awkward position because a moment ago, a meeting began in front of the house with demonstrators who are opposed to employment reform. We ask for a ten-minute break so that people can gather in the Chamber during the vote!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U102	I think that the Estonian system is nothing extraordinary in this sense if you look at the picture of the whole world. Again, I would not like to give any very clear and very thorough answer. My superficial assessment is that their activities should not be regulated differently if they are on the market equal to all other companies. Why should these relationships not be regulated in the same way? After all, competition provisions come into play, which sometimes improve these relationships a little bit. The current regulation seems reasonable to me.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U103	Thank you. Please, Urmas Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U104	Thank you. Honourable judge of state candidate! One very central issue in our administration of justice, both from the point of view of the Court of Cassation and from the point of view of constitutional supervision, is whether the Estonian legal order should have a separate constitutional oversight administration. It exists in most countries. In the economics of justice, Estonia has first and foremost resolved the fact that the Court of Cassation is the court of constitutional review, and this has led to certain personal conflicts of interest in the administration of justice, when the judges of Cassation have made assessments of matters of constitutional supervision. My question to you is: what is your personal opinion, whether this should be considered and whether this separate institution is a conceivable way to develop the system of constitutional supervision of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U105	I think it's probably the road. If we look at other countries, there are a number of countries where there is a constitutional review court as a separate court. I see no reason why Estonia should not be like this, but in my opinion it is linked to the small size of the Estonian state and whether we have enough resources to afford it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U106	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Malle Seppik! It is now possible to negotiate. Any requests? Representatives of the political groups will take the floor. No calls, no negotiations. Then we will proceed to the final vote and prepare for it. Please, Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U107	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U108	Honourable Riigikogu! Kaia Iva's ten-minute break is over, let's continue the session. We have come to the final vote on the first item. Pursuant to § 79 (2) (3) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, when a member of the Supreme Court is appointed, voting in the Riigikogu session is secret. Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote on the draft of the Riigikogu's decision to appoint the "Malle Seppiku Member of the Supreme Court" submitted by the President of the Supreme Court, Priit Pikamäe. Please take a stand and vote. 68 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 6 against and 2 abstentions. The draft was approved and adopted as a decision. Congratulations, Malle Seppik!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U109	Let's go to the second item today. This is the second reading of Bill 404 of the Public Transport Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr Kaja Kallas, Member of the Economic Commission, would like to present a speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U110	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, We have discussed quite a lot of the draft law on public transport in the Committee on Economic Affairs, and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications itself has tabled almost 90 proposals to amend it. We have also received a number of appeals and proposals from very different organisations. In total, we discussed this draft at five sessions, one of which was devoted to taxicab regulation, one to line licensing regulation, one to public service contracts, and the other two voted on amendments. The amendments have also been discussed on several occasions with representatives of the initiator. Since there were many amendments and it is not yet possible to take decisions on the content of two major issues, one on taxicabs and the other on concessions, we propose that the second reading be interrupted and that a new deadline for amendments be set at 4 p.m. on 27 June 2014 so that the new text can be further worked on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U111	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? Please, Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U112	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, The law on public transport is indeed, as you said, a substantial law and also an important one. This concerns Estonia as a whole and all the people. But we are currently in the process with other drafts that relate to this issue. This is a draft amendment to the Road Act, which intends to reduce the money for local roads and thus allow the road situation to get worse. What is your assessment of whether the condition of roads is important when we talk about the organisation of public transport and the availability of public transport across Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U113	I am the Commission's rapporteur here, and we in the Commission were only discussing issues relating to public transport. We did not discuss the law of tea and the state of the roads in this context, and what I think is not directly relevant.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U114	Thank you. Please, Thomas Tõniste!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U115	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! The Public Transport Act contains a major and complex issue of taxiing, which has been discussed both in the working group and in the Commission's meeting. Why don't you refresh my memory and explain it to the people in this room who are not familiar with it, which are the important issues to be kept in mind and which have caused the most controversy?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U116	Taxi is indeed a large part of this bill and a wide range of themes. The main issue that raises disputes is that the draft proposes that the local authority should set the price caps in taxicabs. As far as content is concerned, there is also a dispute as to how service providers' cards and taxi licences are linked, i.e. how to link the work of taxi companies and taxi drivers. However, since we have left out all the amendments to taxicabs that we did not vote in the committee, but we will all vote together, I think we can talk more about these issues in the future. The tax administration part of the draft should be clearer, so it would be easier to proceed with the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U117	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U118	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, It has been discussed a lot, but I am asking for clarification. Paragraph 35 deals with travel discounts, I read the last sentence of paragraph 6 of that paragraph because, due to the lack of time, I cannot read the whole paragraph: 'The travel discounts granted by the municipal or city council on a rural or long-distance route must be coordinated with the county government or the Road Administration concerned. " Suppose some parish council decision is, but the county government does not coordinate the granting of a certain concession. If, however, the municipality continues to grant this concession, what will happen then? I couldn't find in the bill who and how to be punished.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U119	That's a good question. In itself, the issue of incentives can also be further addressed, as there are still many issues in this area. But when we read the draft text, we see that there is an obligation to coordinate these matters. I expect that if there is no coordination, there will be an administrative procedure law that includes sanctions. This is not explicitly stated in the Public Transport Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U120	Thank you. Please, Juhan Parts!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U121	Thank you. I'm gonna ask you a question from the esteemed Kalev Kallo. It's about travel discounts. I know that the Commission intends to interrupt the second reading of this draft and to continue its work. Has the Commission carried out independent analyses of the global experiment in order to continue its work and in the course of its work so far, I would say that the universe has a unique experiment, or Tallinn City's free public transport? Are there such materials? Are there any conclusions, the Commission's common positions? I believe that this work must be continued. This is a very important draft and what has taken place in Tallinn is an extraordinary achievement in the history of the Estonian people. And I have a question as to whether we should perhaps apply more widely this draft to the experiences that have been gained in the city of Tallinn.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U122	Thank you. Tallinn's free public transport was not under discussion in the committee. That topic wasn't touched. So we haven't dealt with this globally rare experiment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U123	Thank you. Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U124	Dear waitress, § 3 of the Act states that taxi transport is the carriage of passengers in road traffic to the customer's desired destination or to the place ordered for the passenger. I'm sure you've heard the taxi drivers complain that taxis can only travel in Tallinn on a bus lane marked by a taxi if they have a customer on them, but if they're going after a customer, they can't drive on the bus lane. My question is whether this new law will change or whether this amendment will have to be laid down in another law, such as the law on traffic.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U125	Thank you. Whoever can travel on the bus lanes is indeed a matter of traffic law. There are very many proposals made to the Economic Commission for driving along these paths and under what conditions, but this does not directly concern the law on public transport.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U126	Thank you. Please, Annely Akkermann!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U127	President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable speaker! The purpose of the Public Transport Act is to provide socially and economically viable traffic to citizens, to encourage the preferential use of public transport vehicles and to reduce social and economic costs for transport for society. Different institutions have different tasks. Will there also be any standards of what kind of public transport must be as common as what kind of network, so that it is suitable for all social groups?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U128	Thank you. The Public Transport Act sets very general requirements for quality. These are general because it is difficult to get very detailed, because public transport covers a wide range of areas: trains, buses, taxis. All of this is very different, and if you go into details, it would be difficult to solve situations if there was something out of the law. But the general requirements are indeed stated in the Public Transport Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U129	Thank you. Please, Marko Pomerance!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U130	Thanks! Good waitress! I am pleased that you, who have already handled this bill at least five times in the Commission, are certainly the best answer to my question. Taxi is a subject that excites people very much. It is logical, of course, that it primarily excites those involved in Tallinn, where there is great competition in the field and perhaps the most villains. But what about Estonia as a whole? After all, no one usually thinks of remote areas when it comes to the availability of taxi services. I will bring the city of Valga or Hiiumaa, for example. Are we talking only about the Tallinn-centred problem? What can be done to make taxi services more accessible? And how's that even happening in the outskirts of the country?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U131	Thank you. All the calls that have come to us about taxiing have been Tallinn-centred. As far as I can tell, there's no taxi access problem in the outback. As problems have been raised, complaints have been raised that too high a price is being charged and quality is not the same, but all of this applies to Tallinn. I have been driving around Estonia a lot and I know that access to taxis is not a big problem. Our cities aren't very big.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U132	Thank you. Please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U133	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I'm coming to the cabs, too. It's hot tonight. Do you think there should be a limit price for getting in a taxi or not? Recently, it seems that the so-called pirate taxis have already been painted yellow, and it doesn't seem very clear whether it's a Tallink taxi or some other taxi when you get in. Except at one point you'll notice that the price of a kilometer is something else and the price of entry is more expensive than the price of big taxi companies.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U134	As I said, taxicab issues we have now lifted out of the debate and the whole taxicab chapter can be dealt with later. But when it comes to pirated taxis, they may not be pirated taxis. They can be perfectly legal taxis with simply a registered price and play for the inconspicuousness of the rider. However, this issue will be discussed later by the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U135	Thank you. Please, Juhan Parts, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U136	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Dear waitress, I understood that the Commission has not yet been able to deal with the free public transport experiment, and I just want to express my wish that it will certainly do so. This is an important experiment in the history of mankind. But my current question concerns pay-per-view public transport. I'm fully aware of this bill of my own, I've developed it myself. I would now like to know the position of the Commission, namely the representatives of the people. There are no rules, no restrictions, no limits for annual budgets, be it the state budget or the local government budget. The trend is that we need to spend more and more taxpayers' money to keep the public transport network. How does the Commission intend to proceed with further discussions on this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U137	As you are the author and developer of this draft, you certainly know the reasons why these issues have not been addressed in the draft. I do not think that the Riigikogu should deal with the draft law on public transport from this point of view, either, why it does not deal in detail with the issues of the state budget. That won't be necessary. I believe that you, as the initiator of the bill, have, for certain reasons, excluded these rules from this.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U138	Thank you. Please, Annely Akkermann, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U139	Thank you once again, Mr President-in-Office. And, good waitress, thank you for your answer to my previous question, but I would like to get more substance. This is about the standards of the public transport network and the frequency of bus departure which satisfy the needs of the various social groups, and which are undoubtedly limited by the amount of money used for this purpose in the budgets of the state and local authorities. We all know that there are settlements in Estonia where the bus goes once a day, but schoolchildren also have to go to school there and get home. Older people may have to go to the doctor during the day, other people have to get to work in the morning and home at night. I'm gonna ask you more about the school buses. In many countries, it is the custom that when children go to school in a sparsely populated area, a school bus is set up to pick up specific children at specific times. Does the new Public Transport Act provide an opportunity to do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U140	There's a chance. This is also the public service obligation set out in Chapter 3. This chapter states that there is a requirement defined by the competent authority to ensure a public passenger transport service of general interest which the carrier would not or would not, in the light of its economic interests, provide without compensation in the same volume and under the same conditions. The entire regulation of this chapter has been designed precisely to deal with such situations.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U141	Thank you. Please, Erki Arrow!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U142	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! It's a very large bill. Today, a couple of times, the issue of taxicabs has been touched here. You have explained that the Commission will come back to this issue. But why didn't you want to solve the bottlenecks in the taxicab while processing this massive bill? I, too, do not consider it necessary to set a limit price, but certainly the supervisory bodies could have much greater powers to control this area. Why did the draft not provide some supervisory bodies with greater levers so that handcuffs could be applied better?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U143	Like I said, taxiing is very broad. Indeed, one thing is that we are introducing regulation, another is how this regulation is being enforced, who is able to check whether taxi drivers comply with the rules or not, and who has the right to punish for non-compliance. We changed the structure of the draft to create a separate chapter on taxicabs. So far, the provisions in this regard were scattered everywhere in the other sections and were very difficult to find. Now that we have changed the structure of the draft with the amendments, it is good to continue to deal with this issue in a compact manner.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U144	Thank you. Please, Peter Laurson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U145	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! There is a great deal of space in the draft Public Transport Act dedicated to taxiing, but the problems of taxiing have not quite been solved. But I have a question about the rail sector, about train traffic. There is not so much space dedicated to train traffic. For example, there are no targets for how fast trains should travel between Estonian cities and what else is being achieved. At the same time, thousands of people use rail transport daily because jobs are far away. Why is rail so little dealt with in the draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U146	You can ask this question to your partymate, Juhan Parts, because he has developed and presented this draft. However, the draft sent from the Ministry to us has not provoked opposition in the Commission, we do not think that this issue has been adequately reflected. Rail transport is regulated by a regulation directly applicable to the European Union, and many regulations come from there. I suggest you get acquainted with this, and I'm sure you'll get answers to your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U147	Thank you. Please, Marko Pomerants, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U148	Thank you. Unfortunately, I can't be original and come back to the cab fare again. Sometimes you have to take a taxi yourself, and in Rakvere, for example, things have gotten a lot better in terms of competition. The same taxi company that serves the public in Tallinn is ready to do so in Rakvere. I got a neighbor on this job. At the same time, there are a lot of concerns about taxiing. I do not wish to identify any of the guilty here, but you have been able to analyse this matter in the committee. What, then, has not been done at some point? Where did these problems come from? That's one. Secondly, a taxi is not an original tool; it is Estonia alone; it travels all over the world. Could the solutions proposed by the Commission, together with ministerial officials, be universal, with confirmation that they have worked under any circumstances?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U149	As I said, the Commission has not yet closed the taxicab issues. So I cannot say that the Commission's views on taxicabs are such or similar. As regards the solution proposed by the Ministry, different countries have different practices. There is a very liberal approach that there is no regulation, and there are countries where even taxi quotas are in place and the whole market is very regulated. So the options are very different, but in the end it all comes down to monitoring, how it is organised.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U150	Thank you. Please, Aivar Chef, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U151	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I come back to § 36 (5), which has already been asked about here once. The local government council makes some kind of discount decision. The members of the Council have, as we know, all received a mandate from the people, but their decision must be confirmed by someone who does not have any mandate. After all, the state has appointed a governor of the country. At the same time, public transport is organised by a public transport centre in at least three counties. How do you view it when a municipal council with a public mandate decides, but it can simply be revoked by a public official, and in the same county, the public transport centre actually organises public transport?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U152	Paragraph 36 does not have paragraph 5, but I understand that you actually refer to Paragraph 35 (6). I also understand that your question concerns this provision that the advantage must be coordinated. Coordination is not yet a rejection. Another argument is that we have the principle of separation of powers and that the county government is given the right to control the work of local government bodies on certain issues. The county government can challenge their decisions. I do not see here a contradiction with the general legal order.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U153	Thank you. Because of some technical problem, Andrus Island's name moved to the end of the ask list, but I'm going to give him the floor for the question right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U154	Thank you, good manager. The rapporteur from the Commission. The fact that the draft law is very important also shows a large number of amendments. I fully understand that the Commission did not complete the work. You mentioned that two subjects did not lock up, they were taxicabs and discounts. Let me get this straight. Everything else has been discussed? If so, have the proposals made by the organisations been taken into account or taken into account? Can those organisations which are not satisfied that their proposals have not been taken into account still make proposals or will they definitely no longer be discussed by the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U155	Thank you for your question. 90 amendments have been tabled by the initiator, four have been received elsewhere. So there were not many organisations that would have proposed their amendments. But in answer to your question, I assure you that the deadline for amendments is valid and that, of course, proposals can be tabled on all issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U156	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U157	Thank you. Honourable waitress! County public transport is currently organised by county public transport centres and county governments. The possibility of being organised by the Road Administration has also been discussed within the framework of the Public Transport Act. At least the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has once thought about it and discussed it. At the moment, I understand that everything in the law remains as it has been so far, that rural governments and public transport centres continue to do this work. Or is it not? And why is the Road Administration off the agenda? I am not asking this because I am a convinced supporter of the order that goes into the hands of the Road Administration, rather the contrary, but I would like to find out whether this function will remain with these centres and county governments or whether it will be transferred to the Road Administration.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U158	This function will be left to them, but the Road Administrations, at our meetings, I have understood the matter in this way, will greatly help to think it through and prepare everything. They're working together.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U159	Reet Roos, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U160	Thank you. Dear waitress, Please tell us what requirements this bill sets for the quality of free public transport as well as for the organisation of free public transport procurement.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U161	The draft sets out common rules for the organisation of public transport. There are no direct differences depending on whether public transport is free or not. As regards whether it can be free or not, this is the chapter on incentives. It lays down the conditions to be met by public transport vehicles operating under a public service contract. But the general quality requirements are all exactly the same, no matter who finances public transport and to what extent.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U162	Thomas Tõniste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U163	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Nearly 100 amendments have been tabled to this draft. Perhaps you can explain in a few words why there are so many of them? And since there are also a number of technical proposals, perhaps you can talk about what are the most important substantive amendments?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U164	The answer to the question 'why? 'is that the initiator of the draft, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, has not done a proper job before coming to the Riigikogu with the draft. These are mostly proposals from the initiator of the draft to improve the text they have submitted. To a very large extent, these are explanatory wordings, the removal of ambiguities. What, though, can be more specific? One major change has already been brought up by the structural change that we have made because the law is clearer. For example, I, who I am in law school, did not find all the provisions relating to taxi transport. How are they supposed to be found by a cabbie? The structure must be clearer and this is one of the major formal changes that we have made. But there were suggestions about the content that came from Liisa-Ly Pakosta. They concerned how children's travel benefits should be demonstrated. Children should not be able to be removed if they cannot prove in public transport that they can drive for free.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U165	Let's keep going. Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U166	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You said that the provision of passenger transport services by rail and by road is laid down in a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council, but there is nothing in this regulation about the speed of trains and buses. At the same time, the speed of driving from one place to another is also very important for the efficiency of the country. The draft law on public transport does not address the speed aspect at all. Do you not think that a discussion should be opened on the speed to be pursued in both rail and bus transport when the bill is being processed?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U167	What do you mean, speed? Speed between point A and point B? It is not possible to set a specific speed that suits all lines. That would be absurd just because the lines are very different. In my opinion, the law on public transport, which is still a very general regulation, should lay down general conditions. It says that public transport should be accessible and of high quality. It's probably going down there, too, so it's gonna be quick to drive from one place to another. Otherwise, people don't use a bus or train.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U168	Andrus Island, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U169	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! You said on behalf of the Commission that the proposal is to interrupt the second reading of the draft. What does the future timetable for this draft look like to be able to come back to it in the autumn? There are many proposals and the deadline for the entry into force of the law is 1 January 2015, but the draft also concerns municipalities and organisations that have to take certain changes into account when drawing up their budgets. What is the Commission's plan for the future timetable and the entry into force of the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U170	The deadline for amendments proposed by the Commission is 27 June. So we still want to proceed quickly with the draft and adopt the law as soon as possible. Of course, if everything stays in the autumn, then the date of entry into force must also be postponed. But the local governments and organisations affected by this law have had quite enough time to familiarise themselves with the new rules. Stakeholders have also asked for the law to be adopted quickly. This concerns, for example, line permits.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U171	Tõnis Palts, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U172	Dear waitress, As a recognized economist, you have spoken out on many things. What do you think about public transport on this side, is it worth investing EUR 40 million in restoring Haapsalu's train traffic to increase regional efficiency?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U173	We did not discuss this issue within the framework of the draft law on public transport, but we discussed it in the framework of the transport development plan. In my opinion, that is a sensible idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U174	Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U175	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Here's the question. Of the types of public transport that are used in Estonia, tourists who visit us may be most exposed to taxiing. It will certainly also be used as a basis for assessing how services in Estonia are at all. It is therefore a little sad to hear that a common understanding of how to regulate this area has still not been found. There must be a lot of interest. How do you feel when you'll be able to lock the subject down?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U176	This will happen when the deadline for amendments to the draft has passed and the draft has gone from the Commission to second reading. I assume that if this doesn't happen at an extraordinary session, which will take place in the summer, it will definitely happen in the fall.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U177	Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U178	Thank you. Honourable waitress! On the question of my colleague, Mr Tõniste, there was a small silence. I asked Thomas the exact same question, and Thomas answered with more or less an analogous silence. Is such a law really a good law that cannot be answered with certainty, what will it specifically change? My second question is whether this law perpetuates the existence of existing bus routes on the market. And in relation to public procurement, did you also discuss the possibility of setting a fixed hourly price for bus drivers, less of which can be paid? Then perhaps there wouldn't be so much black money in this sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U179	First of all, I would like to say that Mr Tõniste asked what was the most important amendment, which quite a lot changes the original text of the draft. Since most of the amendments are either technical or have no significant impact on the substance, I was silent for a moment because I wondered if there was anything to be said separately. However, as far as your question is concerned, when we discussed the subject matter of line permits and public service contracts, the problem also arose that if taxes were not paid, it would be easier to participate in procurement. But the conclusion was that it was more the subject of the Tax Administration Act than the Public Transport Act. The latter cannot solve this problem directly.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U180	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U181	Thank you. My question comes from practical life rather than from this bill, but it certainly also concerns the law on public transport. We've got new trains, colored and fast. Sometimes they stop on the road, but there is a real competition between buses and trains. We can take the train to Pärnu, Rapla, Türi, Viljandi, Tartu and elsewhere. The current state policy is that long-distance bus routes are not subsidised by the State, based on the market economy principle and have to cope on their own. Railroads are subsidised by very large amounts, with ticket revenues accounting for about 20 to 30% of their income, and 70 to 80% of their income is subsidised. How do you comment on this from the perspective of equal competition? And I add that as a rule, the price of a train ticket is more expensive for a passenger than the price of a bus ticket.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U182	First of all, the law does not make such a distinction that long-distance bus routes are not subsidised. The law speaks of commercial lines. Commercial lines persist without the fact that they should receive a subsidy because market demand is behind them. However, as far as your question is concerned, as a competition lawyer myself, I know that in the field of competition, trains and buses are not considered to be competing with one another, but rather as a basis for connection between different destinations. For example, if I want to get from Tallinn to Tartu, there are options for me whether I travel there by car, train or bus. If people are now starting to prefer trains instead of cars because of the good quality of train connections and subsidies, then this is very positive. If they start using trains instead of buses that do not receive subsidies now, then it will ultimately have to start paying for the bus routes, and I am not sure that this is a very good option. In my opinion, there should certainly be some balance so that one does not die out of the other. The use of buses is more flexible than rail transport, but both have their advantages.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U183	Reet Roos, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U184	Thank you. Dear waitress, I'll ask again about free public transport. I have made sure that § 27 is well listed for which objects the state may grant aid. At the same time, it is known that the State also supports local authorities and, ultimately, it is all State aid. Did you discuss how this law could regulate the financing of free public transport? It's all coming out of the country's pocket.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U185	Thank you. Perhaps you would also find it interesting to read § 35, especially the paragraph in the explanatory memorandum. That might answer your question. In itself, the draft stipulates that, in the case of public service contracts, travel benefits may be granted to a greater extent than the statutory rate, if there is a "reasonable and appropriate reason'. That's what the bill says. The explanatory memorandum to the draft law also indicates what these reasonable and appropriate reasons might be. You asked whether we discussed this in the Commission. No one raised this issue, so we did not discuss it in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U186	Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U187	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I come back to my previous question, which concerns taxi services and the regulation of taxiing in this draft. You mentioned that a greater compromise or agreement could be expected in the autumn. What is the basis for this optimism?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U188	My optimism is based on the fact that there is not much left to do here. We have discussed this a lot, and once the taxicab chapter has become a uniform form, it is just a matter of voting through things and deciding one way or the other. That's what my optimism is about.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U189	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U190	I also have a question about the taxi industry. There is an area where we are desperately trying to regulate everything, and there is an area where problems even scream in the face of people's plundering and deceiving. There is chaos in the taxi industry in Tallinn. This bill has been being dealt with for years, and now in the autumn we are starting to come to a decision. What kind of mood is this chaos, these laws of the jungle, or are they not? Years ago, Jüri Ratas was driving a cab around town disguised as a moustache. What was the result? No results. Let's pull ourselves together and try to regulate some specific things that are unregulated, where the laws of the jungle prevail! And let us not regulate over where there is no need for special regulation. What's the problem, Echo? [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U191	Thank you very much for the colorful question. After all, proposals have been put forward in the draft, and we simply have to decide. As I said, we are proposing that taxicabs be removed from the procedure now so that it can be dealt with in a compact manner. I don't think there's a substantial obstacle here. There is just a side of taxicab surveillance that still needs to be discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U192	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U193	Thank you. Since this is my last performance in this Riigikogu, I will thank everyone and see you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U194	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U195	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! That's the question. Last week was also the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs on transit. It was discussed how passenger train and freight tariffs are related in Estonia, etc. I know that the Committee on Economic Affairs will discuss how to continue to organise passenger transport by rail when there is no more money coming from transit. To what extent does this draft deal with this issue and what solutions do we have in this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U196	This draft does not address this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U197	Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U198	Thank you. Recently, there has been news that, depending on the popularity of one type of transport or another, a commercial line has ceased its activities. Some bus operators report that they do not receive sufficient revenue and therefore cease to operate. At the beginning of this year, Elron introduced a new network of train connections in this sense, that there are new and closer schedules and more comfortable trains. It has led to a series of news that one or the other commercial line can no longer operate. What flexibility does this proposal provide for the restructuring of public transport in such a way that mobility opportunities are also guaranteed for people in places where commercial lines suddenly cease to operate?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U199	This is the subject of the answer I gave to my colleague Mr Seeder. But when it comes to closing the lines, it's more of a ministry thing. If they give the railway a huge dose, they need to know that it also affects bus traffic. But you asked what flexibility the bill offers to cope with the situation. They exist in the draft, there is a chapter on public service contracts. This is about cases where there is no commercial interest in operating a route, but there is a need. In this case, the solution is a public service contract, which essentially means subsidised routes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U200	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U201	I have a question about the organisation of public transport in counties, including school transport. In the case of settlements, the problem is that the transport circles that lead to county centres and other schools make children's school paths very long. The question is, firstly, the 'advantage' and, secondly, the fact that we cannot compensate parents for their meals so that they can take their children to school themselves. Does this bill help us to have transports to the rural municipality centre from villages somewhere and so that parents themselves can help with school transport so that children's school trips become reasonable?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U202	The draft provides for the regulation of public service contracts. The letter shall contain the conditions which the competent authority may require of the carrier. As far as financing is concerned, if you want to know whether the private sector can be involved there, this draft does not deal directly with it. I think it is up to the competent authority to decide, and in fact I see no reason why the private sector should not participate. But I can't refer specifically to the bill here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U203	We are in fashion to talk about impact analysis when dealing with drafts, which is considered reasonable. I think that regulating the economic environment in some areas will certainly lead, on the one hand, to the risk that it will entail additional costs and increase the price of services. On the other hand, if the free market is properly regulated and it works normally, so that there are no failures, it will, of course, lower prices. My question is about the whole bill. Has an analysis of impacts on the economic environment and the environment as a whole been carried out? How much does it cost to implement the law? So that we do not face the situation in the case of Rail Baltic that they want to recreate a sex circle with a railway that costs EUR 100 million. What is the effect? How much will it all cost the taxpayer if the prices of services change? I think it is very reasonable that cost accounting will also be taken into account when deciding on this draft. I hope that the Committee on Economic Affairs, together with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, has been able to analyse this, apart from the many letters from the stakeholders.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U204	As far as I know, you were in the government when this bill was approved and sent to us. But, in itself, an impact analysis, as far as possible, has been carried out in relation to the draft. You can also ask your benchmate Juhan Parts about this, I'm sure he can answer you. But the explanatory memorandum can also read about the analysis, as far as it's been done.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U205	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U206	Thank you. Honourable waitress! This bill also regulates the granting of travel benefits to a person treated as repressed and repressed. It is currently regulated by a very complex mechanism. People have to submit tickets that they may have bought themselves, but often someone else has. Would it not make more sense to change the system and simply give some support to repressed persons rather than using such a complex compensation mechanism?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U207	Thank you. This is also a question of many of the other benefits that the law provides for. Should these people somehow be paid directly and they themselves decide how to use this money, or should there be more regulation? But we have not had any discussions on this in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U208	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U209	Good Echo! I will take this opportunity to present one of your last questions to you as a member of the Riigikogu. This is about driving a public transport vehicle drunk. I have written several times about the alkoluks, and your father has also given several speeches on this subject as the European Union's Commissioner for Transport. This would be one way of reducing road accidents caused by drunk drivers. In Finland, all school buses must have an alcolock. The second reading of the bill is interrupted. Could such a provision be included in the draft after the suspension?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U210	Members of the Riigikogu are free to make their proposals. You can certainly make such an amendment. It's not in the bill right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U211	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U212	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I will continue on the subject of travel discounts. Travel benefits may be imposed by decree of the Municipality and City Council, the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Government of the Republic, and the Mayor of the Republic by decree. When local authority provides benefits to someone, is it understandable, but is it reasonable that a mayor can determine this by means of his or her own arrangement? As a result, different travel discounts apply in different counties. Should we not change the situation where someone in one county is benefiting from an advantage, but a person with the same status in another county?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U213	I am not here to defend this bill, I am the Commission's rapporteur. You were also in the government when it was decided to send this bill here. You could have asked the government that question by now. However, if you have such thoughts, you will have the opportunity to make the relevant amendment within the time limit for the new amendments. So please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U214	Urmas Reinsalu, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U215	Yes, thank you! Honourable waitress! I just want to settle procedurally that I meant the impact analysis that comes up in the Riigikogu now that we are talking about drafts affecting the economic environment. We are dealing with a rather large package of amendments, a presumably large part of them will find support, and then in reality we will see what the expected administrative burden will be after these changes. I think that, just as in the government, Parliament must not be indifferent when we spend taxpayers' money. So for the sake of the verbatim, I had this procedural clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U216	Thanks for that line. Good waitress, thank you! No further questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U217	Yes, but since Mr Pomerants mentioned my name several times, I would like to use the right of reply. I just want to reduce the burden of concern on my colleague Pomerants before the big summer. He is concerned about whether there is public transport in Tallinn. I can confirm that there is, and as far as I know, public transport, including free public transport, will not disappear anywhere in Tallinn. On the contrary, new buses, trolleys and trams are coming into the street image of Tallinn, which is intended for use by all Estonian people. If you've noticed, Mr. Pomerants has also been driving along Pärnu Highway. The new tramroads will be built right there. So the good news for Mr Pomerants for the big summer: there is no need to worry, there is no loss of public transport and no loss of public transport in Tallinn.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U218	Thank you. Does Priit Onion have a procedural remark? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U219	I wanted to know that since Pomerants called Priidu's name, how does Tobal know that it was him who was meant to be.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U220	That's a good question! Now, please, Helir-Valdor Seeder! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U221	Ladies and gentlemen, This is a very important draft, which is also demonstrated by the fact that the draft law on public transport has been tabled almost a year and a half ago and 90 amendments have been tabled. The commission has proposed that the second reading be interrupted in order to allow the debate to continue. Indeed, as today's debate in this Chamber shows, there are still a number of issues that would be sensible to resolve in the current procedure of the draft in order not to come back to the subject soon and initiate the amendment of the Public Transport Act. At the same time, I call on my fellow Members to be well concentrated in their speeches, time-saving, so that we can make rapid progress with the draft. Surely there is no point in trying to cross the record of a man in Mulgimaa. As far as I know, the record of the Estonian Parliament's speech comes from Holstre Parish in the hands of Märt Martinson, who gave a speech for 11 hours, almost as long as Martin Klein wrestled at the Stockholm Olympics. This match lasted 11 hours and 40 minutes and brought the Estonians the first Olympic medal. So let's be sustainable! But a few comments on the draft, however. I asked Kaja Kallas a question concerning competition in the field of public transport. As we know, commercial bus routes are not subsidised by the state. At the same time, the state pays subsidies to the railway lines. This is actually very expensive for the taxpayer. Ticket revenue on the railway is less than half, with most of the amount used being state subsidies. I am not saying that we should be against rail transport in any way or that I am against rail transport. No, not by a long shot! I think that this is the very right way to move a train is environmentally friendly and convenient and, in the places where it has started, it has justified itself in every way. But it is a question of equal competition in the air. The problem for the passenger is that some interurban commercial buses stop driving because rail transport eats them out. This is a substantial and major problem for many interurban bus routes, since the bus is still a more flexible means of transport than a train. I believe that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications should certainly pay attention to this issue in the near future. County lines are a completely different matter. For these, there is no intra-regional competition between rail and bus traffic, and about half of the country's subsidy is here. It's probably inevitable. We need to face the truth: passengers are becoming increasingly scarcer due to thinner populations. So the regional routes are treated differently, but in the competition between commercial bus and rail, equal treatment by the State is certainly necessary so that the passenger does not suffer. The second issue, which concerns railroads, is also a result of life itself. In fact, it is very good that the new rail system has enabled the frequency of trains to be increased and that we can choose a more suitable driving time. At the same time, the possibility that some trains are genuine high-speed trains could also be exploited. I drive between Viljandi and Tallinn. The train travels from Viljandi to Tallinn four or five times a day, several times more from Türi, and more from Rapla. As a resident of Viljandi and as a passenger, I would very much like to see at least one or two times this would be a real high-speed train, which may only stop at Türi and Rapla, perhaps in a few more places. This would make it possible to shorten driving time from 2 hours and 20 minutes to 1 hour 40 or 45 minutes. 30 to 40 minutes is actually quite a long time, so we could use it. Unfortunately, there is not so much flexibility in transport arrangements at the moment. The buses and trains duplicate each other, and the fertilizer who wants to travel to Tallinn will be able to get there comfortably, but the train will stop at every small stop and therefore the driving time will be much longer than it might be. A bit of bus transport from the perspective of public transport centres, rural governments and the Road Administration. What should be the division of work in the organisation of county lines? I do not quite agree with Mr Aivar Koka, who is convinced of the supporter of public transport centres. If the rural government has still organised public transport in the county, then in places where this has traditionally been the case and where all local authorities agree, this could continue to be the case. It is not mandatory to set up public transport centres which are definitely more expensive than rural governments. Next: benefits to be granted. These have already been mentioned here in the example of Tallinn's free public transport, but I would like to draw attention to the specific subject of this draft. At present, rural parents have the right to introduce certain advantages, and this has resulted in a situation where different preferences exist in different counties. In my opinion, it is a place of thinking when, in one county, the mayor has given students the opportunity to use public transport free of charge or at a discount, but it is not in the neighbouring country. Perhaps the students go to the same school. In my opinion, it should be regulated in the same way in the country as a whole. I do not want to reduce the competences and powers of rural parents in any way, but I believe that national thought should be given and that the same benefits should be applied to the target groups. With regard to the wider benefits, we recognise honestly that allowing them has become a competition for the population, and this does not only concern public transport concessions. For example, I do not have a parking space for my car in the capital of Tallinn. Years ago, it required a rental contract in Tallinn. From now on, the procedure was changed, and now I have to be on the register of residents of Tallinn and not only that, there is also a locality censorship: I have to have lived in the capital for a certain period of time so I can get a parking discount.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U222	Do you want to open negotiations? I'm opening negotiations. Aivar Koka, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U223	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Today's legislative proposal is, in my opinion, one of the most important in our country. I dare say for sure that public transport and its functioning are one of the foundations of the Estonian state. It's easy to live in a big city where a taxi gets to you in three or four minutes. But we all know that almost 70% of people living in the countryside do not go to work in their own field, but somewhere else. For many this way, it is very important how good the connecting lines are. Public transport is important in many ways. One aspect is the quality of public transport. In my study of this bill, I read with a smile how positive it was that gas buses were driving in the county of Tartu. A few days ago, however, a bill raising excise duties was discussed in this very hall. So we take the money out of one pocket and put it in the other pocket. In addition to having high-quality trams, trolleys, buses, trains, planes, ships and taxis, it is also important how these modes of transport are linked. For years, it has been said that there should be a uniform ticket system. If I want to go from point A to point C and in the meantime I have to go through point B, then I should be able to buy a ticket at once, then I'll be driving a train or a bus or both. It's been talked about for a long time, but it hasn't gotten anywhere. So if we're gonna go somewhere in the countryside, sometimes we don't know if we're gonna get there. Since 2007, public transport has been a plus that local routes are not only intra-regional but also trans-regional. Many counties have made agreements, and we know that it is no longer the case that a person from one county can't get to another job or a doctor. The problem is solved. However, public transport must certainly not be single either. They've already spoken a few words about the shipment of students. Some municipalities enjoy honey because their children travel from one municipality to another and can start a school bus with the support of the state. The municipality's costs are considerably lower. However, if some municipalities have a school and children within the boundaries of one rural municipality, the state subsidy for the school bus cannot be granted and all transport costs are borne by the municipality. It is also very important, as has been pointed out here, to subsidise public transport by the state. Dear friends, we all understand that it should be possible to live anywhere in Estonia. At least you should try to create the same conditions as in the metropolitan area beyond Tallinn. And in order for the country to be evenly covered by the population, it is imperative that public transport be subsidised, whether or not it wants to. There's no way out of this. At the same time, a number of factors need to be taken into account when subsidising public transport. We've gotten new trains, but the railroad isn't so good that new trains can drive at the speed they're allowed to. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U224	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U225	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, When discussing the draft law on public transport, I would first like to recall some of the basics of planning public transport. The purpose of planning and organising public transport is to ensure, taking into account the social and economic viability of the use of resources, that public transport complies with the requirements arising from the mobility needs of residents and their various social groups, including disabled people, the elderly, students, students, small and other island residents. This is one of the starting points. At the same time, we can see that, although this draft is well-fat, it has absolutely not dealt with the efficiency aspect, it is not worded how quickly it should be from one point to another. The draft concerns the different types of public transport, buses, taxis, ships, airplanes, trains, but how fast a person should get from one point to another has not been dealt with at all. But for the efficiency of the state, this is the most important thing, how quickly a person can get a job from home and get home from a job, how quickly children can get to a kindergarten or school and back home from there. Is it possible for a disabled person to travel by public transport to a health care facility or a day care centre? These aspects have not been fully addressed. There is so much more about effectiveness that the new trains that have been set up between Tallinn and Tartu and other routes are full on the tube. People want to ride with them. When the matter is being discussed in the Committee on Economic Affairs, perhaps the representatives of the railway, the carrier, say that in this case, in principle, the price of the ticket could be increased. Instead, they might think about how to make new trains drive faster and more closely so that people can move more easily. With the deny there, most of the jobs are located in Tallinn. In order to prevent South Estonia from dying out, it should be at least half faster in Tallinn. This is a great improvement that it is already possible to get by train from Tartu to Tallinn in two hours. A year ago, that was two and a half hours. If it was possible to travel from Tartu to Tallinn in one hour, we would no longer have regional political questions, Estonia would be one region. But this is not just a problem of moving between Tartu and Tallinn, it also affects other directions, both Pärnu and Tallinn, as well as Haapsalu and Tallinn. These routes should be properly developed. The Chairman of the Economic Commission said earlier that rail traffic is starting to lure passengers away from buses on trains, and that is bad. It's not bad, actually. If it's good for people to ride a train, they should be able to do it. It's wrong to say that railroads are being subsidised a lot. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U226	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U227	It doesn't do much. It's the same way the money goes to the road construction. However, the lack of railway transport is a matter of state management. If we raise rail tariffs in a row, there will soon be no freight trains moving here at all, but the owners of passenger trains will not be able to pay off all the railway infrastructure. This is a more important issue than rail itself, the efficiency of all our public transport is crucial. I'll get another point out of the base. Another starting point is to encourage the preferential use of public transport vehicles, thereby reducing the negative impact of transport on the environment and the health damage caused by it, and to contribute to the prevention of road accidents and congestion. This, however, is not stated in the draft, how to prevent this negative impact. Some time ago, there was a bill in the cabinet to make the use of a helmet mandatory for cyclists. If public transport is not being used enough and the road transport continues, it is not a deliberate choice by people, it is forced on them. People would often use public transport, but if the system does not function effectively, pollution will increase. Thus, at some point in the government office, the idea may arise that people should start using a respirator to protect their health. We don't want to get there! It would be easier to prepare the draft law on public transport properly and to consider all aspects so that we can have an effective law. The third basis for organising public transport is to reduce social and economic costs for society in terms of transport, energy and infrastructure. I've read this bill all the way through, but I haven't seen any points in it that would help reduce transport costs. This should be dealt with more seriously. I therefore think it is early to send this draft to the next reading. This should be dealt with seriously in the Commission and take into account all the aspects I have referred to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U228	Thank you. Please, Marko Pomerance!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U229	Hello, Mr President-in-Office. I suppose I'm going to take a long time. Eight minutes, please! There is much to be said about public transport.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U230	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U231	Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to say that I welcome Kaja Kallas, who has really been very happy with the procedure for the draft law on public transport here in the Riigikogu and has come quite far. If it weren't for the taxi that gave him another big package on his desk. I very much hope that the new Chair of the Economic Commission, Arto Aas, will be able to follow the path of Kaja Kallas and that this bill will be closed. Now, if you take up this bill and recall the recent intervention of my colleague, Priit Toobal, in the negotiations, when he commended Tallinn's free public transport for two minutes, as some commendable thing, then I am a little confused. I would be careful with the advice you gave to our Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Mrs Palo, that she should take one thing to heart. I think that the fewer things he takes to heart, the better for the Estonian people and the cheaper for the country. So be careful with that! But what's gonna confuse me if I listen to Priitu? § 2 of this draft refers to public transport and confirms that public transport is subject to a charge for the carriage of passengers, in particular by regular service, occasional service or taxi service, and to the carriage of paid vehicles by ship, recreational craft and ferry services. If you look at this future definition, you might say that there is actually no public transport in Tallinn, and maybe that is the case. But I will now proceed with my debate. The organisation of public transport is a complex issue, and it is just as people have a choice of place to live. The best situation would be to be able to live somewhere by the sea and at the same time in the middle of the forest, and it would all be near the city. I am listening to my colleagues' debate here and I can see that everyone has an understanding of how quickly we can get somewhere. We will take the Rail Baltic debate and all the questions relating to the speed of trains and possible stops, as well as whether the trains should be headed towards Pärnu or Tartu. But I am sure, as a raven, that it would actually be a very sensible solution if the train first came to Rakvere, then would take Rakvere's people who wanted to go to Europe, and then would either go towards Tartu or back to Tallinn. I think with some three nights, we'd be fine in Warsaw. There's an alternative. I saw on TV that the train ran through to Kuiva. Then we could solve this bridge problem. But when we talk about bus traffic, it's such an interesting thing that it can give passengers very different experiences. I remember when I was a kid, how I went to school. In order to get on the bus, you had to walk a mile and a half from your destination in the opposite direction. There was a stop where I waited for a bus to drive it to Tamsalu, where my school was. It didn't take me much more than an hour and a half, and I was four kilometers away. During high school, the school bus picked me up from my home gate, and ten minutes later I was four kilometers away from school. So depending on how well it is arranged, you can get very different results. That is why there is a need to pay close attention to the organisation of transport. The role of bus drivers is very important here. When I reminded myself of my youth, it was that when it came to being a nice bus driver, he shot me at home at night, if not, then I woken back home those miles and a half miles. So all matters relating to the salaries and organisation of bus and coach drivers are certainly very topical. I also understand why members of the Riigikogu are becoming increasingly involved in public transport. The reason is very simple: it is not uncommon at the moment that members of the Riigikogu also drive public transport. I understand that Mr Seeder has also had negative experiences. It was about that new cargandrong stopped somewhere halfway between Türi and Rapla, and it was not possible to drive forward. But I guess the train company finally found some sort of solution. I myself have had this story that once when I took a bus from Tallinn to Rakverre, a person saw it on the surface and thought it was such a sensation that a social magazine would publish this photograph. He made at least 200 crowns on it. Today, no publication will be willing to pay for the photo if the public body is caught riding in public transport. Now, if we bring this debate together, there will be more problems. The same old talk about city lines that go over county lines. I do not want to think about what will be done when the concept of a single municipality expands within the framework of the administrative reform. So there's a problem. But as a last personal experience, I can assure you that the train from Rakvere to Tallinn is very nice. I've been through it both in first class and in normal class, and it doesn't really matter. And there's still some advantage in front of the bus if you can walk out of either Ülemiste, Kitseküla or Baltic Station, as I need to, so you can climb up the stairs of Patkul to Toompea. We are seriously going through the amendments when we deal with this draft, so I think we can get together a very sensible and good law on the gang. I will now allow another colleague here to say his word; I will not take advantage of everything I have in eight possible minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U232	Thank you. Does Priit Toobal have a procedural remark? You've already taken part in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U233	It should certainly be very clear in this Chamber how to ensure rapid connections in Estonia, because without them the state cannot develop evenly. I've always said that if a rural man doesn't have good connections, he's only got one chance. He buys a one-way ticket and goes after his job. But it would be much better if Estonia had good, fast connections and we bought two-way tickets, i.e. we would commute between home and work. From Tallinn's outskirts to the city centre, the trip will be 20.30, for some people 40 minutes. There is no problem going from Jõgevamaa to work in Tartu if it takes up to 40 minutes to drive. Luckily, all three main roads are in very good shape. At the same time, the problem is that buses on commercial lines travel very quickly between Tallinn and Tartu, but they do not stop at most places. If you live in Põltsamaa and want to go somewhere to work towards Tartu or Tallinn, it is hopeless. There are no routes on which to take the bus in the morning to one side or the other. All are commercial lines and are chasing ticket revenue, so that buses do not enter Põltsamaa, and there are fewer and fewer stops on the cross. Hour buses and half-hour buses, as they are called, will not stop there long ago. A little bit of rail traffic, too. We have beautiful orange trains now. However, their traffic density should be significantly increased. We see that the use of public transport is increasing every month, with considerably more passengers on board trains. If these trains were to go to Tartu or Tallinn every two hours, the traffic on the Tartu highway would be considerably less frequent, as many would take the train. As a member of the Riigikogu, there is no way I can leave after 1 a.m. until after 3 a.m. the first train goes towards Tartu. And by 8:00 in the morning, I can't get a train from there to Tallinn either. That's how you look at the train operators and think about how it's possible that trains are, but people can't work with them in time. Finally, I cannot be satisfied with the fact that the law stresses that a rural elder has many rights. He either promises or doesn't promise to do anything about it, confirms the decisions of the parish council or doesn't confirm them. The members of the Council have received a mandate from the people, and if they have made a decision, it must be accepted. One person must not make important decisions. However, if this regulation is given to a public transport centre where all the local government leaders have a say, then I agree with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U234	Thank you. Is Urmas Reinsalu a procedural question, or would you like to take the floor?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U235	A procedural question. Both I and Siim Kiisler are asking as members of the Riigikogu, perhaps it would be possible to obtain the text of the draft with the amendments. There are no more papers in this box at the back of the hall. Where are the papers? Who do we have here?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U236	You will receive them immediately. Please, Juhan Parts! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U237	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I came here with a hard-hearted remote control. In fact, the fact that the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union asked many questions demonstrates the importance of public transport in the development of the Estonian state. I call on all members of the Riigikogu to discuss these matters in substance! This bill, yes, is presented by the Government of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union and Reform Party. It's been very well prepared, but life is very dynamic. I'll tell Mr. Lang that too. You have to be able to keep up with the changes. In my question to Mrs Kallas, I drew attention to one fact. In fact, the capital of the Republic of Estonia is currently taking place in the history of mankind, I dare to say, not only on a globe, but on an unprecedented experiment throughout the universe: a great leader and teacher, Mr Savisaar, is trying to implement free public transport. It's been done for a long time. I have studied several studies which say that the first phase of the experiment has not produced the expected results. However, Tallinn's leaders claim the opposite that the results are unprecedented. This draft has been discussed by the Committee on Economic Affairs under the leadership of Kaja Kallas since March 2013, and it is now June 2014. So for a year and a half we have been discussing this bill, but we have not noticed that there has been a fundamental change in public transport, not somewhere far away, but here in the city of Tallinn. I would like to say by this that, in my opinion, the Commission's proposal to interrupt the second reading and to come back to it later is reasonable, but the future debate should certainly not be limited to more precise regulation of taxi services, which is too little. Secondly, I would like to pay tribute to Mrs Kallas. I know he must have run off on public transportation to get away from us. He has done this work with a soul and it is very unfortunate that he did not see the result here that the law was passed. But I really hope that the current government will also give priority to public transport and will be able to proceed with this draft in substance, and there will be no problem that the next Riigikogu will also have to discuss it. Now, from what I think are the major challenges that we should address in the future debate. The government presented this bill more than a year ago and life has moved on in the meantime. The first question concerns urbanisation. There is nothing to do, we know that the process of urbanisation is partly inevitable. It is as if the administrative reform is in the opposite direction and reduces the rate of urbanisation, but unfortunately people are concentrated in larger cities. This also has a direct impact on public transport. Urbanization has two consequences. First of all, local governments'I am not talking about large local governments at the moment, but small ones are not able to organise public transport at a reasonable level. There's too few people, there's no critical mass. In fact, this problem has already come out of the county level. During the procedure for this draft, it has been discussed several times whether we should not create some kind of region as a counterweight. Remember, at the beginning of the 1950s, there were nine months of three regions in Estonia, such an experiment. In my opinion, they do not need to be formed now, because there is a risk of centralisation in the region. Stronger municipalities are needed to maintain the perspective of regional balance in Estonia. Then, by allocating tax revenues, they could be delegated the right to make substantive decisions to organise public transport. This concerns all types of public transport, of course, mainly road transport, but certainly also water transport in the western regions, including islands. That's the first question. I would point out that the draft is scheduled for 2010-2012. If we look at the movement of people, the changes have been faster than we predicted at the time. The second question is the question of money. This is the Tallinn experiment! It would make sense that a person would still buy a ticket, so that he would pay what he would pay, his consumption basket. The ratios are relatively small compared to those of developed European countries, but we should be able to keep the desired proportion. For see, a person bought a ticket is the best so-called customer feedback, whether things are good or things are not good. If there is a free ride, no one buys tickets, then the feedback may not be adequate. Yes, we can develop green cards and everything else, which is also good to get some feedback, but a free ride in itself can lead to certain distortions. 50% allowance, 50% ticket revenue, that's that proportion, that's the goal we should be discussing. In my opinion, this draft should reflect this in the financing chapter. The third question is that the Fatherland and Res Publica Union have always been a supporter of the market economy, always, do not doubt it! However, the Isamaa and Res Publica Alliance are not blind-eyed, pink-glassed people who do not see if the market is not working. It is precisely we who want a market economy where we can react even if the market does not work. And in public transport, the situation is that the market with objective economic laws simply does not work. In dealing with these issues, this concerns ferrying, rail traffic, but also more and more other modes of transport (I am not talking about intra-Estonian air traffic) where the market does not work, we must act wisely, given that we have a limited amount of taxpayers' money and we cannot invest in infrastructure indefinitely. It's been eight minutes, but all I could actually do was report the introduction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U238	Thank you. Please, Thomas Tõniste!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U239	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Today, it has been seen in this Chamber that the members of the Riigikogu have a very strong interest in this bill. There were many questions, many good answers. However, we did not receive all the answers we expected. It is also understandable, because even when this bill was brought into this hall, it was pointed out that the Public Transport Act entered into force on 1 October 2000. Since then, it has been changed a few dozen times, the volume of changes made is large, and for this reason a new complete text had to be drawn up. It was obvious that the focus in this law is out of place because it covers so many different parts. However, I would now like to highlight the main objectives of why this draft is before us. This future law will specify the competences and tasks of public transport authorities. There is also a desire to amend the regulation on public service obligations, to clarify the basis for granting travel incentives, to improve the quality of taxi services by organising the relevant regulation, to enable bus and coach transport to increase competition and to ensure the stability of the quality of transport services, to regulate the rights and obligations of passengers and drivers in road traffic. In doing so, we will take into account the regulation on the rights of passengers in bus and coach transport introduced by the European Parliament and Council regulation. We are also trying to solve the problems encountered in the implementation of the current law with this draft. As important as these objectives are certainly the terms used. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that public transport within the meaning of this law is subject to an authorisation for the carriage of paid passengers, in particular by regular service, occasional service or taxi, and to the carriage of paid vehicles on shipping, recreational and ferry lines. I repeat: public transport is carried out primarily by regular service, occasional service or taxi service. Public transport is therefore not limited to these types of paid transport, but includes all types of passenger transport for which remuneration is charged. Such a service may, for example, be the rental of a passenger car if the car is ordered with the driver, since it is essentially the carriage of paid passengers. We had the same topic of rental on several occasions both in the working group and in the Commission. I'm now getting to the taxi ride that we've had the most passion today. This, unfortunately, was not much to be discussed by the Commission, simply because there were so many other issues. However, some proposals were made by the members of the Commission. When someone thought that the price cap was reasonable, the other confirmed that there was no sensible, liberal economy above all, etc. But what's a taxi ride anyway? The carriage of taxis is the carriage of passengers at the customer's desired destination or at the place ordered for the passenger by means of a public car adapted for the carriage of taxis. Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U240	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U241	The carriage of passengers without a taxi driving licence, a vehicle card or a passenger card must also be considered to be a taxi transport if the vehicle is adapted for taxi transport, i.e. the vehicle is fitted with a taxi identification. plafone, a price list, a taxi meter or a taxi identification mimicking it, but in this case it is illegal to carry a taxi. If I've been driving a cab myself, I've seen the subject go to the cab drivers. People who do their job properly and carry customers from morning to night are extremely frustrated why we do nothing about these pirate taxis. The same pirate may also be the driver of an official taxi who makes two journeys a day and earns more than the other one who has worked properly all day. What does it look like for tourists and other customers who get caught in a taxi that even has an officially high price? The poor client has not been able to ask about it and will get a bad surprise when he arrives. This violates the reputation of Estonia as a tourist destination. I am convinced that reasonable price caps are absolutely necessary. At the same time, it is a concern that we have been dealing with this draft for a very long time and that we have met many interest groups, but we still have 100 amendments ahead of us. We propose that the second reading of the draft be discontinued so that we can continue the work. There were questions about whether the Commission had done a bad job. Perhaps we have discussed the draft too slowly or, on the contrary, too hastily? Perhaps more time should be taken off and the subject discussed further? I myself believe that the Commission has gone the right way. We have given interest groups the opportunity to express their views. We have met them, they have listened, and now the moment has come when we will vote through these amendments, interrupt the debate and continue the work. Good luck to us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U242	Please, Priit Toobal, speak up! Two minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U243	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I was inspired by my colleague, Juhan Parts, to speak. Let me say a few words about this excellent experiment that the city of Tallinn has done, i.e. free public transport, and its positive effects. When it comes to the first positive impact, it is definitely a cash saving, i.e. a financial bonus for the residents of Tallinn and their wallets. All those who had to buy a single ticket or a month card or even an annual ticket to use public transport will now be left in the wallet and will be able to decide for themselves what to do with the money, whether to use it to fill their food basket or to contribute to children's recreational education. Secondly, which is certainly no less important.. maybe it is even more important.. has an impact on the environment. After the introduction of free public transport, the figures clearly show that the number of cars is much lower in the centre of Tallinn and that the number of people using public transport has increased. Thus, the amount of exhaust gas emitted from private cars into the urban space has slightly decreased. In addition, all this pollution from road wear has been reduced, especially in the city centre. Such an impact on the environment is undoubtedly important. I think that if Tallinn applies for the title of the Green Capital in the coming years, this is one of the strong arguments to go before the European Commission when the title of the Green Capital is asked for there. I think free public transport is worth catching up for all of Estonia. Minister Palo of the Economy could make this one of his own. IRL thinks free public transport is bad. But what makes free land, or land tax exemption, more logical than free public transport in Estonia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U244	Thank you. Please, Peter Laurson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U245	Honourable Riigikogu! Today's session is closed, but the second reading of bill 404 is not complete, we will continue it in the next session. Siim Kiisler and Priit Sibul are now registered for calls. That's what we're done with right now. Have a nice day for everyone! See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 1.03 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U246	Thank you. Now your time is up and the session is over. Thank you very much, Mr. Ceder.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U247	But I missed eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U248	Eight minutes was perfect.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-17_U249	No way! [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
