ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the session of the third working week of the seventh plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. No drafts or requests for information are recommended. Let's go to the messages. Wednesday, s. On 29 January, the following members of government will attend Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Defence Urmas Reinsalu and Minister of Justice Hanno Pevkur. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. Currently 75 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, 26 are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U2	We are going to address the items on today's agenda. The first item is the first reading of the bill 563 of the Riigikogu's decision to appoint Saale Lao as a member of the Supreme Court submitted by the President of the Supreme Court. I'll introduce you to the procedure. First, the presentation by Rait Maruste, Chairman of the Constitutional Committee, takes up to 20 minutes, then the presentation by Saale Laos, a candidate for the Supreme Court, lasting up to five minutes. A member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to each of the rapporteurs. Subsequent negotiations involving representatives of the political groups. Then the final vote will take place, the vote will be secret. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for a presentation of the Chair of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr Rait Maruste.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U3	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The debate at first reading of the draft Riigikogu decision was held on Monday, 20 January in the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu. Priit Pikamäe, President of the Supreme Court, and the candidate for membership of the Supreme Court were present in Saale Laos. Priit Pikamäe explained that at the end of November last year the mandate of the President of the Supreme Court, Märt Rask, ended. Pursuant to § 53 (2) of the Courts Act, the President of the Supreme Court announced a public competition with a deadline of one month to fill the vacant place. This competition ended on 2 December 2013. Three people applied for the seat of a member of the Supreme Court: Head of Department III of the Office of the Chancellor of Justice, Counsellor of the Chancellor of Justice Saale Laos, Judge of the Tartu Circuit Court Paavo Randma and third candidate who resigned during the competition. The President of the Supreme Court, listening to the opinions of the Criminal Chamber of the Supreme Court, the General Assembly of the Supreme Court and the Advisory Council on the Administration of Courts, decided to propose to the Riigikogu that the councillor Saale Laos of the Chancellor of Justice present his seat as a free member of the Supreme Court. Mr Pikamäe pointed out that, in doing so, he meant in particular that it was a future member of the Criminal Chamber and that Saale Laos had a broad knowledge of penal law and criminal proceedings, because his jobs in both the Ministry of Justice and the Office of the Chancellor of Justice had been linked to the subject matter of penal law. Importantly, Priit Pikamäe noted that the candidate is very competent in constitutional supervision. In view of all the above, the President of the Supreme Court proposed the candidacy of Saale Laos, finding that he is a very good candidate for the post of member of the Supreme Court. I will now brief you on the questions and opinions that were presented in the Commission following the introduction of Priit Pikamägi. The speaker noted that according to the current law, the judge can remain in office until the age of 67. The candidate was born in 1974. I asked if this long time wouldn't scare the candidate. Saale Laos replied that she considered participating in the competition very carefully and came to the conclusion that she was willing to assume this responsibility. He said if the job was interested, it could be done for the rest of his life. I also asked whether he considered the primary function of the Supreme Court's cassation court or constitutional review, or constitutional review, to be the function of the Constitutional Court. The candidate for the Supreme Court replied that, if one of them were to be chosen, he, based on his current job, felt that the weight of the matter was far inclined towards the constitutional oversight function. Colleagues Rein Lang noted that according to the Courts Act, the President of the Supreme Court announces a public competition in which all lawyers can participate to find a new member of the Supreme Court. Consequently, a person who has not been a judge of first or second instance may become a member of the Supreme Court. This can be compared to the External Action Service, which is one of the few places with a career model. The position model has been chosen elsewhere in the public service, as has the Supreme Court. The position model can create a situation where talented young people compete in public competitions, receive support and are in this position for 40 years, i.e. the end of their working people's path. Rein Lang asked whether the President of the Supreme Court considered such a model to be justified. Priit Pikamäe replied that this topic was being discussed in 2012 and the draft came to Parliament. Its original version provided for a rigid career model, but the draft was amended in Parliament and decided in favour of a public competition, i.e. an open model. An open approach is supported because the knowledge and competence of academia and other legal areas, such as experienced lawyers, is also needed in a higher court. Priit Pikamäe found that the solution proposed by the current Courts Act was correct. My colleague Väino Linde noted that he dares to recommend a candidate because it is a practical and concrete person. He asked whether the candidate thought that a person who came from outside the judicial system could have advantages or whether it would force more learning to become a member of the Supreme Court. The candidate replied that he had been in court for a short period of internship and also wrote some decisions. He added that in the Chancellery of the Chancellor of Justice he had been in contact with the wider judicial system, since the Chancellor of Justice participated in the Court's Administrative Advisory Board and its agenda and material was the responsibility of the department he chaired. In addition, he has written his research, Bachelor's and Master's thesis, on the basis of criminal practice, studying both matters of substantive law and procedural law. He did the same thing at the Ministry of Justice. The speaker mentioned that it is customary for the European Constitutional Courts and international courts to be completed on a fixed-term basis. The Judges shall be appointed for a fixed one-off period of 9 or 12 years. Since the Supreme Court of Estonia is the court of constitutional review, can't you think about the fact that the judges of state are in office for a limited period of time? Priit Pikamäe replied that international experience in this field is diverse. The right thing is that the members of the Constitutional Court are usually appointed by a fixed deadline, but since the Estonian model is the "three-to-one-solution" Supreme Court, the Supreme Administrative Court and the Constitutional Court, we are assigned members of the Supreme Court for life. The most correct solution, in the opinion of Priit Pikamäe, would be the creation of a separate constitutional court, which would require a broader debate and amendment of the constitution. These were brief comments made by the Commission. At the end of the debate, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs proposed that the appointment be placed on the plenary agenda on 28 January, i.e. today. That decision was taken unanimously. Secondly, it was proposed that the draft be put to the final vote (also where there was consensus). The rapporteur was appointed here. Finally, pursuant to § 117 (3) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, it was decided to propose to Saale Laos, a candidate for a member of the Supreme Court, to present a presentation of up to five minutes before the Riigikogu's plenary. That too was a unanimous decision. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U4	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions for the rapporteur. Thank you, Rait Maruse! I would like to present a speech chair for a candidate for a member of the Supreme Court, Saale Laose!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Thank you for the opportunity to make a brief presentation before answering the questions. I would like to share some thoughts with you and follow the keywords 'court system', 'protection of fundamental rights in criminal proceedings' and'supervision of constitutionality'. The judge's job is responsible. He must exercise justice and make final decisions binding on the parties, either individually or collegiately. The role of the judiciary in the rule of law is difficult to overestimate. On the one hand, there must be an independent judicial system, on the other hand, legal protection must be available and within a reasonable period of time. The principles and procedures for judicial management shall be laid down by the legislator. These are constitutional, or so-called '51 votes' laws. Procedural economy justifies restrictions on access to justice, but they must not be excessive. I am referring here to the issue of the availability and quality of state fees, as well as state legal aid. The procedure for legal proceedings must ideally be flexible. As much as necessary and as little as possible should be regulated to ensure that a specific legal dispute is taken into account on the road to the final solution while ensuring the procedural rights of participants. I'll stop next in criminal proceedings. Ensuring fundamental rights in both pre-trial and criminal proceedings has been the subject of a wider public debate in recent years. After all, the Minister of Justice has just announced that in 2014 the focus will be on ordering criminal proceedings. The plan is to review the issues of search, arrest, criminal investigation and the right of defence. I agree that practice from the point of view of the current law needs to be reviewed from time to time and can result in an assessment of the need to amend the law. All the more so must be done in an area where national action is permitted and involves very intensive interference with fundamental rights. I stress that the existing rules must also be interpreted constitutionally, i.e. in a way which ensures greater protection of fundamental rights. However, if the rule of law does not allow or does not guarantee the change of practice, I mean the argument of legal clarity, it is justified to amend the law and to give the implementer a clear lead. Let the subject of the so-called electronic storage media be an example. In view of the wide scope of electronic communication and the interference and intensity of fundamental rights inherent in procedural procedures, I believe that the special regulation on the search of information systems in the Code of Criminal Procedure should be seriously considered. With regard to criminal proceedings, I am also concerned that, despite several decisions made at the Supreme Court almost three years ago, there is still an illegal procedure for the compensation of unlawful damage caused by criminal proceedings. I am also talking about constitutional oversight. The jurisdiction of the Supreme Court includes not only the review of cassation appeals but also the functions of the Constitutional Review Court, including decisions on the constitutionality or opposition of legislative acts. From time to time, the question arises of the activity of the Supreme Court, i.e. whether the Supreme Court has not tainted the legislator's land of play. To put it simply, the question is the rate of intervention. The Constitution provides for the principle of constitutional supremacy and all branches of state authority are involved. The process of shaping political will must also follow honest constitutional rules. In this way, the constitutional task of the Supreme Court is to assess the legal role of 'legally' also the activities of the legislator, based on values such as legal certainty or equal treatment. Undoubtedly, the Supreme Court's decisions may also be criticised, but even if I do not agree with the decisions made when considering different legal values, the hallmark of a good decision is that the legal argument leading to the final solution is logical, understandable and comprehensive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U6	Thank you very much. Any questions for a candidate for a member of the Supreme Court? Please, Väino Linde!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U7	Thank you, Mr President. A candidate for a good Supreme Court Member! Although you have already discussed your presentation on this subject, I will ask you more specifically. In terms of constitutional supervision, the Supreme Court has also been regarded as a 'negative legislator'. How do you unthink this for your possible future job?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U8	Thank you. Please, Rait Maruse!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U9	This is primarily a question of the fact that the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court as a constitutional review court is to assess the constitutionality of the legislative act, including the law adopted by the legislator. If the Supreme Court finds a conflict with the Constitution, the next step is the annulment of the decision of the legislator. This is the expression of the power of the negative legislator, which arises to the Supreme Court from the Constitution. Speaking of the activity of the Supreme Court or, as I emphasised in my speech, the rate of intervention, on the one hand, the Supreme Court has the power to revoke the law, but on the other hand, it must observe the borders very clearly. The legislator has a wide margin of discretion when adopting the rules of organisation of collective life, and the Supreme Court should not write a specific and narrow way to Parliament here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U10	Honorable Member of the Supreme Court! In your report you stated that the Supreme Court is also the constitutional review court for legislative acts. He has repeatedly applied this supervision, and that is right. However, the Constitution says that the Court also recognises as unconstitutional any other act or act which violates the rights and freedoms laid down in the Constitution. What is your assessment of the extent to which our assessment of the constitutionality of operations is common? What is your opinion on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U11	If you look at the practice of constitutional review of the Supreme Court, we can see that most of the decisions concern indisputably legislative acts, whether it be a matter of a specific or abstract standard control. At the same time, the Supreme Court has been given powers in connection with elections, for example. The assessment of the legality and constitutionality of the election procedures is an assessment of the procedures. So there's this kind of action.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U12	Thank you. Please, Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U13	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You discussed your presentation on the need for a possible amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure, in particular the provision on electronic media and search regulation. Do you think the Code of Criminal Procedure needs any other changes?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U14	Certainly, practice occasionally reveals the shortcomings of the current law. That is why I have also stressed that criminal proceedings are accompanied by very intense barrages, in particular, I am talking about pre-trial proceedings, and this code must therefore be reviewed. The debate has touched on, for example, search and arrest. I can express my personal position. While the legislator has not restricted the granting of powers of review to expressis verbis with the permission of the court, by considering the nature of the search as an act of pre-trial procedure, what this entails for the person sought and the extent to which the evidence which may be found in the course of the procedure is a very serious point of consideration, whether or not a court should, to a greater extent, give jurisdiction to the search, so that it is not decided by the officials of the pre-trial procedure. I also mentioned the subject of arrest. Although it has developed in practice that in pre-trial proceedings the investigating judge authorises the arrest of a person for up to six months, this is, in my opinion, an interpretation of the law. I do not see any obstacle why, given the circumstances of a particular case, the court could not tell the pre-trial investigator and the prosecutor that they would have to apply for a new permit in one month, if necessary, rather than six months.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U15	Thank you. Please, Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U16	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! There is a rapidly changing world around us, and sometimes it seems that our legal space can barely keep up with it. There are very many concepts, phenomena and processes that did not exist when the Constitution was written, but which all affect our legal space, whether it be the Internet, the European Union or many international organisations of which Estonia is now a member. More and more we have to interpret the Constitution, we have to think about what the Constitution says about this or another matter. Where should it go between the Supreme Court and the Riigikogu if we increasingly interpret phenomena and processes about which the Constitution says nothing?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U17	Undoubtedly, the Constitution is a living document. When the legislator and the people adopted the Constitution in the referendum, they certainly took into account that the situation was changing. There's a certain degree of flexibility in the Constitution. The Constitution must be interpreted, the question is more within the limits of how far the interpretation of the legislator can go and where the limit is reached that the legislator or the people should rethink some provision of the Constitution in a referendum. This is generally difficult to say; it still depends on the specific situation, the regulation that one paragraph or the other provides for. It has been said that the interpretation of the Constitution must be based on the Constitution as a whole; we cannot remove any norm from the context. While contextual interpretation also raises problems in regulating everyday life, the amendment of the Constitution must be seriously considered.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U18	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U19	Thank you very much. A highly respected member of the Supreme Court! You mentioned high state fees to be paid when you apply to the court. I remember that one of the hottest disputes that has ever been in this Chamber was six or seven years ago when the state fees were raised. They increased thousands of percent and even more at that time. How many people have failed to go to court over these years to defend their rights? The minister then argued this amendment by not having to go to court so often.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U20	The nature of the state fee is indeed a restriction on the regulation of the right of recourse to the courts. This is a perfectly acceptable legal measure in the sense of the Constitution. The question is what weight do we give to the right of recourse to the court as such. On the one hand, the state fee must really prevent malicious recourses to the court, on the other hand, the state fee regulation also means that if someone goes to the court without proof or with a malicious complaint, the state fee will be paid, but his position cannot be confirmed, the state fee will be borne as a loser. Speaking of how much the increase in state fees may have affected the number of appeals to the court, I must admit that I have not looked at the statistics so thoroughly that I could say it. An assessment here is probably not enough. But looking at the size of the state fees, it is quite likely that there will certainly be people who have given up legal protection for this reason.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U21	Thank you. Please, Lauri Vahtre!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U22	Thank you! Mrs. Laos, I have a question. The Supreme Court is an important institution, there are wise people, the Supreme Court makes important decisions and its activities are quite costly. The practical consequences of decisions of the Supreme Court are probably not irrelevant. As you have probably noticed, recent attention has been drawn to Tallinn's cynical and brutal refusal to comply with the law on the payment of the place fee for kindergarten. As a result, the court has repeatedly been seised and the question of whether the requirement of the law is constitutional has also been reached at the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court has decided that there is no conflict with the Constitution in the law, and that is the end of it. Tallinn still refuses to comply with the law. As a future member of the Supreme Court...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U23	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U24	I would like to know your position as to whether and how you intend to take an interest in the implementation of decisions of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U25	One measure of the implementation of the decisions of the Supreme Court is undoubtedly the annual presentation by the Chairman of the Supreme Court here in the hall before you. As far as I know, the President of the Supreme Court has also dealt with this subject to a greater or lesser extent. If you raise the question of how to ensure compliance with the Supreme Court's decisions, a little more abstractly, it is clear that it is very difficult to include some sort of coercive mechanism.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U26	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you, Saale Laos, a candidate for the Supreme Court. Any requests? No calls, no negotiations. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote on 563. Honourable Riigikogu, pursuant to § 79 (2) (3) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, voting at the Riigikogu session is secret when a member of the Supreme Court is appointed. I put to the vote the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Voting Saale Lao as a Member of the Supreme Court" tabled by the President of the Supreme Court 563. Please take a stand and vote. 80 members of the Riigikogu with no votes against and 2 abstentions. The draft decision has been adopted as a decision. Congratulations, Saale Laos!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U27	Let's go to the second item. The first reading of the Bill of Amendment to § 29 of the Citizenship Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group begins. I ask for a presentation of a speech chair by a member of the Riigikogu, Jevgeni Ossinovski! Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U28	Thank you. I have a procedural question. Madam President, please explain whether I have missed something. In the meantime, has the regulation changed and now there is one minute and 15 seconds to ask the question? Or what is the reason why you do not give anyone sitting on this side of the hall an opportunity to speak for more than a minute, not even one second, but you promised Mr Vahter to speak calmly for a minute and 15 seconds? If a person cannot formulate his thoughts within a minute, as required by the rules of procedure, he will have nothing to do in this hall. If he didn't, he didn't. Explain why you're breaking the rule!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U29	Thank you. I'm certainly not breaking the rule. When one minute is up, I'll ring the bell, no matter who's been speaking. You may have noticed that after one minute I also announced that we were waiting for a question. I believe that Lauri Vahtre, who is still a very young member of the Riigikogu, will soon become accustomed to formulating his questions more quickly. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, the second procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U30	Can we conclude from this that if you simply do not pay attention, you can talk for a minute and a quarter minutes or a minute and a half, just as much as anyone wants? You just have to ignore the fact that you're calling and talking and there's not going to be a problem. Is that it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U31	I believe that all members of the Riigikogu know that there is one minute to ask a question under the Home and Working Procedures Act. I really hope that everyone has understood this and is striving for it. I certainly haven't hurt anyone. When you start doing statistics, it has to be said that, unfortunately, I have allowed a few seconds of talking about this one minute longer for everyone who has been in the middle of this conversation. There's never been a microphone stuck. We are now going to the second item on today's agenda. I ask for a presentation of a speech chair by a member of the Riigikogu, Jevgeni Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U32	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce you to the draft Group of the Social Democratic Party, which aims to make the Citizenship Act a little more human on a small point. We were prompted to initiate a specific case that was written in the Estonian Express and other publications at the end of last week and which I have been talking about for almost a year. Let me briefly present the content of the problem. One 13-year-old girl born in Estonia has been a naturalised Estonian citizen since 2001. At the time of birth of the child, both of his parents were of undetermined nationality, and therefore, pursuant to § 13 (4) of the Citizenship Act, the child was granted a simplified naturalisation procedure. In 2009, the child's father decided to become a citizen of the Russian Federation. As is unfortunately the custom in the diplomatic representations of the Russian Federation, Father was offered the opportunity to take Russian citizenship, in addition to taking the citizenship of the Russian Federation, to a child who actually had Estonian citizenship. Of course, the Russian consul did not mention anything about the fact that double citizenship is prohibited in Estonia and that this could lead to problems for the child. The parents themselves did not know of the existing double citizenship ban. The fact that, in 2013, when the mother went to the child to apply for a new Estonian passport, she was asked for a child's identity card and handed the official a daughter's Russian passport, which is why double citizenship came out. The procedure for withdrawing Estonian citizenship was initiated in accordance with the law in force in Estonia. During the procedure, the family was ordered to prove that the Russian citizenship had been renounced, otherwise the child's Estonian citizenship was allowed to be revoked. So far, everything was fine: the parent had made a mistake of ignorance, and the state provided an opportunity to make it right so that the child could continue to be an Estonian citizen. The real problem, however, has only just begun. According to § 19 (3) of the Russian Citizenship Act, a minor cannot give up Russian citizenship unless, in addition to his or her child, one of his or her parents is also an Estonian citizen. Since the mother of the child is still a person of undefined nationality and the father is a Russian citizen, this family does not comply with this specific section of the Russian Citizenship Act. In essence, they are currently not even in a position to apply for the release of a child from Russian citizenship. Therefore, for reasons beyond their control, this family cannot comply with the precept of the Police and Border Guard Board to renounce Russian citizenship, even though they want it and have also taken steps in this direction. In other words, the state requires a person to do something that a person, for a reason beyond his control, is incapable of doing. That's absurd. The Police and Border Guard Board has no discretion in this matter under our law. Although officials of the Police and Border Guard Board have clearly realised that the situation is not normal, according to the current law, they cannot assess in a specific case whether or not Estonian citizenship could remain for this person. Thus, according to the law in force, this fine child should be deprived of Estonian citizenship. By bureaucratic cynicism, a letter from the Police and Border Guard Board states that if a child retains the citizenship of the Russian Federation, the Police and Border Guard Board will consider him or her to have lost Estonian citizenship within a month, revoke the passport issued to him or her and refuse to issue him or her a repeated Estonian citizen's passport. In this case, you must apply for a residence permit to stay legally in Estonia. The question arises as to who is in the interest of such a course of action, whether it is in the interests of the state, society or its family. I have also addressed the Chancellor of Justice with question 129 in writing. You can also read the answer from our online system. In his reply, the Chancellor of Justice says: 'It is questionable, however, whether the withdrawal of Estonian citizenship from a child in this situation is in accordance with the best interests of the child. ' The Chancellor of Justice refers here to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, according to which the interests of the child should be at the forefront of all national actions. A child should not be punished if the child's father or mother has done something that harms the child's interest. The Chancellor of Justice continues: 'By international law, citizenship is furnished through the existence of a real and effective link between a person and a state. This requires strong factual links with the country of nationality. The main reason for avoiding double citizenship is the risk of a conflict of loyalty (e.g. obligation of defence, consular protection) which is not substantially present in children. On the contrary, by having Estonian citizenship, the state can contribute to the formation of loyal citizens of children through a sense of belonging. ' In the specific case, it is clear that a child born in Estonia and always living here and attending school has real and effective links with Estonia. Rather, one might ask whether such an effective and real link exists with its second country of nationality, Russia. The Chancellor of Justice asks whether, in this case, it should not be possible to preserve Estonian citizenship for the child until the child is of age and can take steps to give up the citizenship of the Russian Federation. The aim of the draft under discussion is to put an end to this absurd situation. Paragraph 29 of the Citizenship Act is supplemented by a new paragraph according to which Estonian citizenship is not withdrawn from those persons who prove that they cannot, for reasons beyond their control, renounce the citizenship of another state. It gives the Police and Border Guard Board discretion on this issue. The fact that a person cannot give up his or her citizenship for reasons beyond his or her control must be demonstrated by that person himself or herself. As soon as it becomes possible to give up the citizenship of another country, for example, the child becomes an adult, then the other country can be required to give up the citizenship of another country. Although the motive for the draft is clearly the case of one particular family, there are dozens and dozens of similar cases. I would like to stress separately that the draft does not change the principles of Estonian citizenship policy; it does not relate in any way to a wider discussion of the admissibility of double citizenship, which has been held here with varying success. All provisions prohibiting double citizenship remain in force in the Citizenship Act. Estonia is not the only country in Europe where double citizenship is generally prohibited. However, in those countries where this is the case, exceptions are provided to protect children and families and to avoid imposing unreasonable burdens on individuals. For example, one of the undoubtedly stricter citizenship laws in Austria, but there, too, the citizenship of another country can be maintained when it comes to the welfare of the child or where it is important for a private or family reason. The opinion of the Government of the Republic on this matter is so full of demagogic nonsense that I leave the honour of presenting them to the Commission rapporteur. Thank you. I'd be happy to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U33	Please, Juku-Kalle Raid!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U34	Thank you. Evgeny! Am I right to understand that if the Russian state behaves unhumanely with its larval citizen, leaving some things to him without telling him, then the Estonian state must therefore begin to change its laws? Do you understand what you're saying?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U35	Thank you. Let's just say that there are two aspects to the operation of the Russian Federation on this particular issue, which are certainly deplorable. Firstly, if parents are granted Russian citizenship, it is recommended that the child should also be a Russian citizen. I don't think that's justified. Secondly, the question is how to interpret the specific section of the Russian Citizenship Act, to which I referred, according to which these parents cannot even apply for exemption from the citizenship of their child, because it requires one parent to be a citizen of another country. According to general practice, in my opinion, Russia could assess its undefined citizens of our country as nationals of another country in its domestic editing process, which could solve this problem. Unfortunately, Russia will not do so. I have been in contact with the head of the consular department of the embassy of the Russian Federation and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Unfortunately, Estonia does not have any opportunity to influence the way Russia implements its laws. In answer to you, it is not about what Russia is doing, but about how we behave with our people.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U36	Thank you. Please, Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U37	Thank you! You said there were dozens and dozens of cases like this. How have these cases been dealt with? Is there, for example, a residence permit applied for?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U38	Thank you. It is not the case that, unfortunately, there are only a few people who have tried to find some meaningful solution to this problem in this difficult situation. In most cases, when a person has come from the Police and Border Guard Board with a paper message that he is breaking the law and his passport is taken away, so easily gone.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U39	Thank you. Please, Juku-Kalle Raid, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U40	Evgeny, I understand that there is one person who has renounced Estonian citizenship. All right. As a result, his daughter suffered. But the thing you're talking about right now is a clear signal to the Russian citizens that, dear people, do what you want, we will adapt our own laws to it. Don't you think that's absurd?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U41	Thank you for your question. I didn't understand the first part of the question. No one has given up Estonian citizenship; the child's parents were at first both persons of undefined nationality. If the honourable questioner had listened to my report, he would probably have understood it. Since the child was granted Estonian citizenship by a simplified naturalisation procedure pursuant to § 13 (4) of the Citizenship Act, his or her parents could not have been nationals of any other state. Unfortunately, I cannot understand this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U42	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U43	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I understand you've been in contact with representatives of the Russian Federation. Is the practice you described going on, or have they changed their behavior? Do you have any information on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U44	I must say that the representative of the embassy of the Russian Federation with whom I was communicating did not take a sufficiently distasteful view of this problem; he probably did not see a major problem here. I think that on this subject, our Ministry of Foreign Affairs could communicate more actively with its Russian colleagues, so that ultimately the interests of the people would still be ahead of any other interests.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U45	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U46	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! I believe that this will be the fifth time, in ten years, that this issue will be raised in this Chamber. But my question relates to the government's argument. I would not want an emotional answer, but a specific answer. Has the government's argument changed, has anything been added to it, or has it remained at the same level?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U47	Thank you. The Government of the Republic does not support this draft, as they consider that it would substantially change the principle of citizenship policy so far, without any need for substance. I think this sentence sums up their position quite well. In addition, it has been said that it is actually not true that a person loses Estonian citizenship, that he or she may submit an opinion to the Police and Border Guard Board, that he or she will certainly be heard and so on. But the main argument is what I will read right away: 'Estonia's citizenship policy has changed little since the restoration of independence and was based on the view that the principles of citizenship policy are not changed. '
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U48	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. I would like to ask Mart Nut, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U49	Madam President! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Constitutional Commission discussed this draft law at three meetings of the Commission. Firstly, the draft was discussed at the meeting on 10 September 2013, and then the most in-depth and substantive debate was held on the subject. For the second time, the Commission discussed the draft at its meeting on 16 December, with procedural decisions on the draft being taken. The third time was under discussion at the meeting of the Commission on 20 January 2014, when the procedural decisions were reversed. It was originally planned that the first reading of the draft would take place on 14 January, but since the rapporteur could not attend the meeting, the reading was postponed. Our final decision was that the draft should be discussed at today's meeting on 28 January. I will briefly introduce all three sittings. In addition to the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Ruth Annus, Head of the Migration and Border Guard Policy Department of the Ministry of the Interior, Siiri Leskov, adviser to the same department, and Kaire Sepper, legal adviser to the same department, attended the first meeting on 10 September. Mr Ossinovski, on behalf of the initiators, presented this draft law at that meeting. This introduction covered basically the same circle of problems that Mr Ossinovski spoke about today at the plenary session of the Riigikogu. The debate took place mainly between the representatives of the government and the initiator of the draft. The other participants may have asked for more details. However, since this debate covered a very wide range of topics, which went quite far from the draft framework, I am talking about the issues concerning the draft. I will sum up Ruth's dose response in quite detail so that there are no different opinions or omissions. Mrs Annus said that there really are children in Estonia whose parents have taken citizenship from the Russian Federation in addition to their children's citizenship. It has been considered to be an informed and deliberate activity of parents, which the embassy of the Russian Federation has also encouraged, although it is known that multiple citizenship is not allowed in Estonia. Parents are likely to want a more favourable position for their children, but this will not follow because children who have obtained naturalisation will lose Estonian citizenship. If the child is deprived of Estonian citizenship because of the informed or unknown activities of the parents, this situation can be changed by the appropriate means provided for in the Citizenship Act. According to the Constitution, the person has the opportunity to restore his or her citizenship when he or she becomes an adult. There was a question of numbers in this hall. Referring to Mrs. Dosage, it can be said that according to Article 29 of the Citizenship Act, 608 persons have lost their citizenship. In 2010, there were 139, 103 in 2011 and 118 in 2012. It is not known how many of them are adults and how many are minors. It started to be accounted for in 2013, when 90 persons lost Estonian citizenship, including 23 minors. Thus, it is rather adults who have hoped that the exchange of information between countries would not work and have taken the citizenship of the Russian Federation in addition to the naturalisation of Estonian citizenship. Mrs. Annus announced the position of the Government of the Republic. Mr Ossinovski has already introduced it quite well, but I will repeat it to some extent. The Government of the Republic does not support the draft, considering that the draft would change the principles of the current citizenship policy without any substantial need. The Ministry of the Interior analysed the compliance of the current law with the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which provides that the child has the right to citizenship. If a child acquires the citizenship of another country in addition to Estonian citizenship and as a result is considered to have lost Estonian citizenship, the citizenship of another country will remain for the child. This is not a situation where a child would remain stateless, and so the Ministry of the Interior does not see a contradiction here with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. In the case of the regularisation of multi-citizenship, individual cases and small groups should be considered as a whole. The answer should be found to the question whether and under what conditions and for which groups of persons, whether selectively or in their entirety, the Estonian state is prepared to shape its citizenship policy in such a way that multiple citizenship is allowed. Such fundamental issues cannot be resolved by means of a legislative amendment created on the basis of individual cases and marginal groups of persons. In addition to the debate, we tried to find a compromise as to whether it would be possible to change the wording in such a way that the draft would comply with the current principles of the Citizenship Act and satisfy the initiators as well. We agreed that it would be appropriate to set up a working group to deal with this draft. However, since the Ministry of the Interior did not find a way to adjust the draft in such a way as to avoid the contradiction that arises with regard to multi-citizenship, it did not make sense to set up this working group. The next Commission meeting to discuss this draft took place on 16 December 2013. There, the representative of the government, Siri Leskov, stressed that the Government of the Republic did not support this draft because it wanted to substantially change the fundamental principles of citizenship policy, which prohibit Estonian citizens from being at the same time a citizenship of another state. There is no practical need to introduce such regulation, as the current Citizenship Act is in line with both the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Constitutional provision. The following procedural decisions were taken at this meeting: First, it was decided to refer the draft law to the plenary session. a by 14 January. It was decided by consensus. Another consensual decision was the decision to appoint Mart Nutt, a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as rapporteur. One decision was not consensual. It was proposed that the draft be rejected. There were 6 votes in favour and 5 votes against, with no abstentions. No amendments were tabled by members of the Riigikogu, committees or political groups on this draft. As I mentioned, the reading of this draft on 14 January was canceled and, as a result, the Commission had to return to this draft law and take new procedural decisions. These are the following. We propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda for the first reading by 28 January (consensus decision), we decide to appoint Mart Nut (consensual decision again) as rapporteur and propose that the draft be rejected (6 votes to 5, with no abstentions). These decisions were taken at the meeting on Monday 20 January. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U50	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U51	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, I'm trying to understand your logic that you must not violate certain principles that make our citizenship policy the way it is. You mentioned the principle of not allowing double citizenship. But this bill, as far as I understand it, should help to solve this problem; it will help to avoid double citizenship, and it will solve this problem in favour of the Republic of Estonia and not the Russian Federation. They don't add up, that principle you referred to, and that idea that's in the bill. What principle are you talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U52	Thank you, Mr. Stalnukhin! First, I passed on the position of the Government of the Republic, not my personal position. Second, let's look at this bill. What is the consequence of this in a situation where a person is a national of one country and receives the citizenship of another country, and is not exempted from the citizenship of that first country? Then he'll have double citizenship. In my opinion, this is quite clear and logical from here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U53	Thank you. Please, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U54	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! My question concerns one very concrete and painful example. The Estonian family adopted two small children who have Russian citizenship. These children speak Estonian, they live in this family, but they do not become Estonian citizens because Russia does not give them freedom. It would be wise for the Estonian state to gain more than two good citizens who grow among our people. We should allow this family to take Estonian citizenship for these children, and later they would give up Russian citizenship anyway. During these hot discussions in the Commission, were there no such options that we should act wisely and indeed be useful to the Estonian state in citizenship policy? This family's problem is very deep. I have personally communicated with them, and I think that the country should meet them and give them a little self-interest. However, it is not worth throwing good citizens overboard like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U55	Thank you. I'm personally familiar with this case. The Commission did not address this issue at this meeting, but I believe that an agreement between Estonia and Russia could be the solution. As long as either one or the other party has not been prepared to enter into this agreement, I understand that on the Estonian side this readiness exists, so far the problem remains unresolved. But I absolutely agree with you that such matters must be resolved.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U56	Thank you. Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U57	Dear Mr. Nutt! Please explain whether the last, I think, of the government coalition's unintelligent and unhumane individual decisions regarding the denial of citizenship are simply because of the fear that every non-Estonian citizen who comes in is an additional voice to the Social Democratic Party or the Centre Party, or because of these decisions are also beyond my grasp of national or security policy threat assessments. In addition to the case we are discussing today, I am also thinking of depriving our Olympic team of probably the highest position in Sochi, as the partner of an Estonian citizen was denied citizenship.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U58	Thank you. As a Commission waitress, I cannot respond in any way on behalf of the government. Please ask your question to the Government of the Republic!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U59	Thank you. Please, Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U60	Thank you. Honourable waitress! This is a young person who has been legally granted Estonian citizenship under a simplified naturalisation procedure, has declared his wish to remain an Estonian citizen and only an Estonian citizen and to renounce Russian citizenship as soon as possible when he has reached the age of 18. However, the Estonian state tells him that no, we do not need such a citizen, let us live in Estonia as a Russian citizen. How can such behaviour be in the security of the Estonian state or in any other interest? Did the Commission discuss this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U61	Thank you. The Commission discussed the issue of this child. The Commission did not raise the question of what is the child's will in this case. But since he is a minor, his parents are his legal representatives and their decision about him is, unfortunately, legal. When we talk about removing the right of parents to represent their child's position, that would essentially mean withdrawing parental rights. We did not discuss this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U62	Thank you. Please, Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U63	Thank you, Madam President. Austet waitress! In your report, you told me that the Commission decided to continue working on the draft and to set up a working group, but that was not done because the representative of the Ministry of the Interior ignored this event. My understanding of parliamentary democracy is that if the Riigikogu decides to set up a working group and invites a representative of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, it simply comes and does not comment. What are your concepts of parliamentary democracy?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U64	Thank you. I didn't say that a representative of the Home Office ignored it. The Ministry of the Interior has presented us with the view that a compromise cannot be found. Therefore, the Commission had to take its decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U65	Thank you. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U66	Thank you. Dear waitress, You spoke about the Government's position on the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. In this case, the government has brought out of the Convention a provision that is more comfortable for them, that is, the point that the child has the right to citizenship. There is no argument here; in this particular case there are no problems with citizenship. What was referred to in the draft explanatory memorandum and originally referred to by the Chancellor of Justice is quite another provision of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, which concerns the prominence of the child's interests in all national procedures and the non-punishment of the child for errors made by parents in matters relating to nationality. This has not been appreciated by the Interior Department, as far as I know. What is your or the Commission's view on this particular point?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U67	Thank you. The Commission did not go further in this regard. I am now perhaps going to exceed the mandate of a waitress, but I am going to say that the question here is whether we can consider the decision that her legal parents are making in her interest as opposed to the will of the child. You can argue about this issue, but you automatically say it's against the child's interests, we probably can't.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U68	Thank you. Please, Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U69	Thank you, Madam President. Good performer! The positions of the Government and the Ministry of the Interior on this matter are appalling; they are, in my opinion, bureaucratic and aliens of life. One reason why this child cannot retain his or her citizenship is that he or she cannot make an exception on the basis of a small case. But life isn't easy, there are exceptions and special cases in life, you can't hit everything with a single table. Is it not, however, time to review the citizenship law and adapt it to life? What really happens when some children have double citizenship until they grow up? It does not pose any threat to the Republic of Estonia, but we will have some good citizens.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U70	Thank you. In a democratic country, debate is always allowed on all issues. Within the framework of the draft under discussion, we did not broaden this debate. After all, it has also been discussed whether double citizenship could not be more widespread in Estonia. The position has so far been that the risk factors are greater than the positive bonus that comes from here. But I repeat, no one can stop us from continuing this debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U71	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U72	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague Mart, You're a good citizenship specialist. I'm going to ask you a question that doesn't cover the subject of this bill. As we know, double citizenship is prohibited in Estonia, but there are very many people in the world who have the citizenship of another country in addition to Estonian citizenship. Can you tell me what the number of these people is and what the solution is?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U73	Thank you. First of all, do not ask about what we did not discuss at the committee meeting. You know it's hard for me to answer that question. This figure is very difficult to say, but these people are undoubtedly there. People have several citizenships for different reasons, usually having multiple citizenships at birth. We can talk about maybe a few tens of thousands of such people. This figure may also be higher, but we do not know exactly what to say right now, because we do not have an overview of some countries, such as the Russian Federation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U74	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U75	Madam President! Good waitress! I really enjoyed your logic that this decision taken by parents is not contrary to the interests of the child. This could probably be extended to other issues. But in fact, when I listened to all of this, I remembered one famous aforism, namely, õn za ottsa ne otvetchajet, or son, is not responsible for his father. The impression remains that Estonian citizenship policy is tougher than Stalin's famous sentence. Or am I wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U76	The son is not responsible for the father in the sense that the sins of his parents cannot be punished by children. But I think we're starting to philosophize very widely right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U77	Thank you. Please, Paul-Eerik Rummo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U78	Thank you. I understand in this way that this unfavourable situation, which I think has been proposed as a rather unsuccessful solution, arose because the parents who were legally granted Estonian citizenship were not aware that double citizenship was not possible. Was the Commission discussing how it was possible for parents applying for citizenship to have no explanation of the background to their application for citizenship for their children?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U79	Thank you. Couple of aspects. The waitress, Evgeni Ossinovski, opened up this problem. The question here was that the parents were not Estonian citizens. Former so-called "Minister of Justice' of the so-called "Donetsk People's Republic'. Their child had received Estonian citizenship through registration. It is now a question of who the parent should have asked for an explanation as to whether the child has the right to double citizenship or not. He should have asked the authorities of the Russian Federation who offered him citizenship. Of course, if he had approached the authorities in Estonia that have this information at their disposal, he would have been explained. Maybe those parents didn't come up with that, but I don't know the facts. Whether these parents were aware of it or not, Mr Ossinovski may be able to answer. This information, which the Commission has, is currently based on Mr Ossinovski's information.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U80	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U81	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, When you and I were first members of one of the members of this Chamber years ago, we had a colleague, a member of the Riigikogu who had double citizenship. At least one such member of the Riigikogu existed. The government worked as a high-ranking official with double citizenship. It is said among the words that double citizenship is forbidden. But the question is quite different, it concerns the text of the draft law. It has been said here that it is impossible to give up the citizenship of another country. I understand that there may be a law that is really impossible. I can understand that, although it is a subjective assessment. But did you discuss in the Commission when it is dangerous to give up citizenship? Perhaps a specific example of a product if it can be dangerous to give up citizenship.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U82	Thank you. The legislative provision is not formulated by the Commission but by the initiators. Paragraph 1 (2) of the draft law reads as follows: "Section 1 of this section shall not apply if the person proves that it is impossible, dangerous or unreasonable to give up the nationality of another State. ' I think you should ask the initiators what they mean by danger. I can kind of imagine what that means, but maybe I'm starting to speculate too much on it. For example, it may be a country where there is a terrorist regime and where a person cannot apply for exemption from citizenship in any other way than when driving to that country, but traveling there would be life-threatening. But that's my guess right now. I can't answer for the initiators.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U83	Thank you. Please, Kalev Eagle, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U84	Thank you, Madam President. Austet waitress! I will specify my earlier question. If the legislator decides to set up a working group to deal with the draft further, but the Ministry of the Interior states that a compromise is not possible, and the working group is not to be formed, is it not a small violation of parliamentary democracy? The contractor is holding back the parliamentary debate, stating the final truth that a compromise is not possible, and we are closing the debate in this House.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U85	To be honest, one of the reasons why we did not meet is that the people I approached under the mandate of the Commission were not interested in joining the working group. If we had some sort of bill to discuss, I think we would have gone on with it. The record also states that my very personal interest was that we would have found a compromise.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U86	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U87	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! I'd like you to be more specific. Let me get this straight. We're practically talking about two things. One thing is this issue in general and the other is this bill. This working group, which you were talking about and which should have been formed, could not have moved forward on the basis of this draft, because there was not enough argument to discuss the draft further. Does the Commission consider this issue to be important and topical? Do you think that this issue could be dealt with, but simply this draft does not provide an opportunity to develop it further?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U88	Thank you. At the moment, I cannot respond on behalf of the Commission. I can say on my own behalf that this issue is topical. But if a working group is to be set up, there must be a basis for it. In the present case, this would have been the basis for this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U89	Thank you. Please, Karel Knight!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U90	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good Commission waitress! I understand that Estonia in principle does not recommend any change in citizenship policy. But among my loved ones are people who live outside Estonia, not in Russia, but in England, for example. One parent is an Estonian citizen, the other is not. Children learn Estonian with great enthusiasm and are very interested in Estonia. Does the Estonian state not need children who live outside Estonia, but are Estonian patriots? What advice should I give to my loved ones in the future when children who live outside Estonia are reaching out to Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U91	Thank you. If you want the Commission's position, I can pass it on to the Commission. I'm in a bit of a difficult situation again. In my opinion, the Estonian state needs these children very much and I am very pleased that they are Estonian citizens.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U92	Thank you. Please, Urbo Vaarmann!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U93	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Commission waitress, Did you also mention how many other people with grey passports may still be in Estonia and how many families with children where such a problem could arise? After all, Russian citizenship is often taken. Are these people being informed in any way?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U94	Thank you. In my report, I read how many people have come into this situation. These statistics are from 2013. Since 2013, 90 persons have been considered to have lost Estonian citizenship, and there have been 23 minors among them. It is not specified whether they have applied for citizenship of Russia or another country, but the loss of Estonian citizenship has been linked to the taking of another citizenship. The owners of the hall passport are less than 100,000, currently estimated at 80000 to 90000. Children who could apply for Estonian citizenship through registration are around 3000. That's the data I just said without looking at the sources. I do not believe that this problem concerns all people who have applied for and received Estonian citizenship for their child. They will not all immediately apply to their child for citizenship in another country. I think it's a choice of individual people rather than a lot of people.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U95	Thank you. Please, Jaak Allik, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U96	Dear waitress, As I understand it, the Commission does not want to show this child and his parents the legal way to preserve the child's Estonian citizenship. It's an honest family, a parent came and showed a Russian passport and wanted to use legal tea. Dozens and hundreds of his fellow fates understand from the press that the Russian passport must be hidden at the bottom of the drawer. As legislators or as representatives of the Commission, are we really satisfied with the outcome of our work if the Commission's proposal should now pass through?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U97	I think that the country and the Commission should work better.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U98	Thank you. Please, Sven Mikser, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U99	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I was puzzled by your answer to Mr Kalev Eagle's question. I remember that when the mayor of Tallinn visited Russia in his day and a committee wanted to see him after that, but the mayor announced that he did not want to come to the committee, it caused a lot of resentment in Parliament. Now we hear ministerial officials announce that they are not interested in coming to the committee. I'm asking who those officials were. Have you also approached their superior, i.e. the Minister, or maybe they do not want to carry out the duties assigned to them by the Minister, because they are not interested in it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U100	Thank you, Mr. Mikser! You read out of my words what I didn't say. No ministerial official has refused to meet with Members of Parliament. I am talking about Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U101	Thank you. Please, Paul-Eerik Rummo, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U102	Thank you. Based on your answer to my previous question, I am a little concerned about a situation where any person who applies for Estonian citizenship to himself or to his or her child has not automatically been informed about the acquisition of Estonian citizenship. Is it not the case that authorities are not obliged to inform applicants of all the circumstances or simply fail to comply with this requirement? How about this? There may be further confusion on this surface.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U103	Thank you. It is difficult to answer on behalf of the Commission because the Commission is not dealing with citizenship for anyone. As far as I have information, I can tell you that those parents who apply for citizenship by registering their child will be given comprehensive information. Whether it is also said that Estonian citizenship will be abolished if the citizenship of another country is applied for, I do not know specifically that. I assume it's done, but people can forget about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U104	Thank you. Please, Urve Palo, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U105	Thank you, Madam President. Good performer! Do you agree in principle that in Estonia, where there are so few people, every person should be on account and every person's attempt to become an Estonian citizen should be supported by laws? On the basis of this individual case, our laws do not support it, but even hinder it. Do you consider such a law to be right in the context of this case? Did the Commission mention whether the laws in Estonia should support people's desire to become an Estonian citizen?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U106	Thank you. In my opinion, it has been discussed at every level that it is in Estonia's interest that people living in Estonia be Estonian citizenship. Multi-citizenship is a bit of a different focus. We did not go any further in discussing this when I introduced you to this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U107	Thank you. Please, Jevgeni Ossinovski, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U108	Thank you. Dear waitress, It is clear that all the decisions that are made in this Chamber are sending some kind of signal to the people they touch. Could you somehow sum up the signal that the six members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs who, to a large extent, have given me this impression from the opinion of the Ministry of the Interior and the government? What is this message for people who, in a particular case, may lose Estonian citizenship as well as for all those who are in a similar situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U109	Thank you. I understand the signal was sent by the initiators of the bill. The Commission must deal with all drafts that have been initiated. No one in the Commission discussed the fact that, with these procedural decisions, the Commission wanted to send a signal to someone.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U110	Thank you very much. No more questions for the waitress. Is there a desire to negotiate? Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U111	Ladies and gentlemen, I am simply saying, in response to Mart Nut, that the initiators certainly did not want to send a signal; the initiators of the draft wanted to resolve this abnormal situation. Unfortunately, there are currently not many people on the side of the hall where those who voted against this draft in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs are sitting. So it is difficult for me to assess the extent to which they have taken part in today's debate. But I say, on the basis of the discussions in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the resulting conclusion, that this is one of those fortunately not many times, where I am embarrassed. I am not embarrassed when we have a world-view dispute over social policy. This dispute is normal, it is judged by the voter. It's embarrassing when you all actually understand what's right, but you just don't care. You have not bothered to delve into it, you have simply followed the opinion of the Ministry of the Interior on this matter. Unfortunately, the voter will not judge if, because of your indifference, you allow a good Estonian citizen to be deprived of his citizenship. This person is going to lose his citizenship, and what it's sending him, we all know. If you put yourself in the position of this family, I'm sure your sense of justice would say it's a mess. But you won't. It's at times like this that I'm embarrassed to be a colleague of yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U112	Thank you. Any more calls? No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The Commission's proposal was that draft 459 should be rejected at first reading. It must be voted through. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting to reject the draft proposal of the commission at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 38), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 37 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The draft has been rejected on the proposal of the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U113	Our third item today is the first reading of the draft law amending the Income Tax Act and § 3 of the Social Tax Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. I ask for a presentation of a speech chair by a member of the Riigikogu, Eiki Nestori!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U114	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Bill 533 is in front of you for the second time. I would remind you that the bill is based on the fact that in the event of illness, we are treated differently by the person who is working and by the person who is working, but not by the salary, but by the person who receives the money for the job. According to the Health Insurance Act, in the event of illness, the first three days of ownership are used and neither of them receives compensation for that period. Within five days, the employer pays the employee 70% of his previous salary, but the self-employed person does not have an employer who should continue to pay the salary. Thus, if the employee has a three-day period of self-employment, that is the case, eight-day period. In order to solve this problem, we have submitted a draft law amending the Income Tax Act and § 3 of the Social Tax Act, which our group members prepared together with experts in tax matters. The idea is simple in itself and creates little bureaucracy. We are based on the fact that we have personalised social tax data for all persons for each year. Our idea allows self-employed persons to deduct one amount from their business income in the event of illness for the same days as the employer continues to pay the employee's salary. If the employee is compensated for 70% of his previous salary, the self-employed person could deduct from the income 70% of the amount calculated on the basis of the Minister's instructions relating to the social tax paid in the previous year. This amount would be the same as for people working on wages with taxable income tax. So the order would be the same. In principle, this would mean that we treat employed and self-employed workers on the same basis if they cannot work because of illness. The draft has been before the Riigikogu once, and the Government of the Republic also gave its opinion on it. I would like to say that the government has taken our draft more seriously this time than compared to what was presented in the previous debate. On the government's proposals, I will say briefly that some of them are calling for a debate, either to solve one problem or another in the Income Tax Act or the Social Tax Act. The initiators are also certainly prepared to supplement the draft, if necessary, with those provisions relating to special accounts for self-employed persons. Perhaps the law could also contain a more precise description of which this sickness allowance should be deducted so that no one would disagree. But these are all technical challenges that can be solved in the future of the draft, they are not very complicated. The main thing is knowing whether or not we treat self-employed people and those who work in the same way in the event of illness. In short, that is all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U115	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions for the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U116	Must have been a very good report.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U117	Thank you, Eiki Nestor! I would like to ask Peter Laurson, Member of the Finance Committee, for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U118	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the draft Act amending § 3 of the Income Tax Act and Social Tax Act 533 took place in the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu on 20 January. a. As a representative of the initiator, the draft was presented by Eiki Nestor, vice-president of the Social Democratic Party Group. The position of the Government of the Republic on the draft was presented by Kairi Ani, chief specialist at the Tax Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance. I am talking about the debate in the Commission. The sickness benefit is intended to compensate for the loss of potential income. In the case of self-employed persons, the guaranteed income is unclear, so the automatic reduction of income is questionable. The question remained: what is the guaranteed income of the self-employed person? We didn't get a reasonable answer to that. It's a similar situation in one-man companies. If a member of the management board falls ill and if the head of the company does not have a contract of employment with himself, he or she, like a self-employed person, has no one to pay the sickness benefit. If there is an employment relationship, the manager is paid a salary, i.e. there is no problem. Under the Health and Safety at Work Act, the employer pays sickness benefit for 4 to 8 days. It was discussed how to calculate the benefit for self-employed persons. The recipient's income shall be calculated on the basis of the salary calculation. The author of the draft was of the opinion that, in the case of self-employed persons, the social tax paid last year could be used as a basis. They gave an overview of the government's position. The government doesn't support the bill. The reasons are as follows: 'The main objective of the draft explanatory memorandum is equal treatment of employees and self-employed persons. The application of the principle of equal treatment requires two groups of persons in a substantially similar situation. Although both the employee and the self-employed are employed persons, the employment relationship is a contractual relationship governed by the Employment Contracts Act. This is a strong relationship of dependence under which the parties need special protection and specific regulation within the legal relationship. A contract-related relationship is characterised by, for example, subjugating one party to the contract to the other party's orders and instructions, determining the time and place of work, etc. In addition, the Employment Contracts Act obliges employees to pay remuneration at least at the minimum rate established by the Government of the Republic in order to ensure a permanent income. By contrast, in the case of self-employed persons, according to the Commercial Code, they are persons providing goods or services for consideration in their own name and the sale of goods or the provision of services is a permanent activity for them. The time and manner of his work remain his own. The relationship between self-employed persons and their contractual partners is not a relationship of subordination, and they are generally equal partners. The degree of independence is significantly higher, which is why self-employed people and workers are in significantly different situations. Given the nature of self-employed activities, a break caused by illness, unlike an employee, may not automatically mean a loss of income. However, sickness benefit is compensation for loss of income due to illness. ' In addition to the above substantive problems, the government has pointed out the following: '1. The structure of the draft act creates a misunderstanding of the business income subject to income tax, which is to be deducted from the amount that is taxed separately by income tax. Taxpayers would be more understandable if it were laid down in the Social Tax Act in order to introduce a tax credit in respect of social tax. It is not necessary to provide for the same benefit in the two laws. In addition, it remains unclear whether this deductible taxable amount is to be allocated in the same way as business income 1,33 before tax, or whether it is to be taxed as income of a natural person in general. 2. The proposed amendment makes the amount deductible due to illness dependent on the arrival of the previous year's activities. The draft does not show how the amount to be deducted to compensate for loss of income due to sickness is calculated for self-employed persons who have lost their losses in the previous year. 3. The draft does not show which type of business income is deducted if the self-employed person also receives income from the transfer of agricultural products and timber, either in proportion to the income or result of the particular type of income, or chooses the type of income to be reduced himself. 4. The impact of the change on the special account of the self-employed person, the carry-forward of losses and the additional tax relief (Article 32 (4) of the TMS) is unanalysed. 5. The statement in the explanatory memorandum to the draft proposal that the draft does not have an impact on the state budget is not appropriate. The draft will result in a reduction in social tax receipts. The reduction in income from social tax will also reduce benefits paid to self-employed persons, dependent on social tax (parental benefit, sickness benefit) and pensions in the following year. In addition, the tax authorities will have to make costs for introducing changes in the information systems for calculating the tax liability. ' Ultimately, in the Commission, the positions of the government were widely accepted and it was stated that changes were needed in the laws governing the activities of the self-employed. On a specific draft, the Commission took the following decisions: we decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 28 January and we propose that the draft be rejected at first reading. There were 4 members of the Commission with 3 votes against and no abstentions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U119	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. Please, Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U120	Thank you, Madam President. Austet waitress! Did the Commission's debate address the fact that the number of self-employed persons is currently falling rapidly, in particular due to weaker social guarantees? If the solution proposed by the initiators was not suitable for the Commission, did a better solution emerge during the Commission's discussion? We'd love to hear it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U121	Indeed, it was said that the number of self-employed people would decrease. There were also reasons why this is so. Indeed, the social guarantees of the private limited company are better described. As there are still a number of issues that need to be resolved in the case of self-employed people, a separate debate should probably be launched. Looking at the government's positions, the Commission found that we cannot support the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U122	Thank you. Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U123	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You said that in the case of an employment contract, the employee has to follow the employer's orders, etc. Yes, it is natural that the agreed arrangements must be followed. But you also said that the self-employed are equal partners. I'll give you an example: a beautician works as a self-employed person. Who's his partner? Is he for himself? Explain, please, open!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U124	Thank you. Please, Kalev Eagle, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U125	In the case of a cosmetician, it is indeed very difficult to say who this partner is.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U126	Thank you, Madam President. Austet waitress! You selectively read out a few complaints from the government about our bill. Did the Commission also share the government's fear that, if the self-employed were to apply a calculated sickness benefit, they would unduly start to take sick leave, ignore the treatment prescribed by the doctor, and intentionally cause injury to themselves?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U127	Yes, the government's view did indeed deal with such thoughts. The Commission did not pay very much attention to them. I pointed out the most important aspects why the Commission did not support the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U128	Thank you. Please, Heljo Pikhof, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U129	In fact, self-employed people are now also entitled to maternity leave. I do not understand very well the reasons why they should not be entitled to sickness benefits, because this is also taken into account for some amounts. When we are talking about debt-law contracts that are not contracts of employment, it says in a similar way that at least the minimum wage must have been paid social tax. I do not understand why it is not possible to pay the sickness benefit. Please explain that if, in one case, it is possible to pay self-employed benefits (i mean women who go on maternity leave) and in the other case, why is this prevented?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U130	The government has pointed out (in agreement with the Committee on Monetary Affairs) that it is very difficult to clarify the level of compensation. If, for example, losses were incurred in the previous calendar year, it is not possible to calculate the benefit on this basis. Even the Minister of Finance should issue some kind of regulation on how to calculate the compensation rate. The draft does not set out how this could take place and, until the question of how it should look is resolved, the Commission did not. The author of the draft act should have described it in more detail.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U131	Thank you. Please, Jüri Morozov!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U132	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! The government coalition has declared that they are so-called indisputable and absolute supporters of entrepreneurship and entrepreneurs. FIEs are a very large group in Estonian entrepreneurship, with a very strong role and part of the Estonian economy, especially in rural areas. How do you justify the swift completion of this debate at first reading? Doesn't this part of the Estonian entrepreneurial people deserve to be discussed at all about their social guarantees, or is there another reason here?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U133	As I said, there are other issues that cause problems for self-employed people, and they should all be resolved in a complex way. The draft alone, where there are contradictions now and which would not have solved the problem of the sickness benefit rate, would not have achieved the right result. Therefore, the members of the Commission felt that this issue should be dealt with further and that all issues should be dealt with in a complex way, rather than dealing with only one issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U134	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U135	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! Did I understand correctly from your answer to one of the previous questions that the initiators of the draft were thrown at the Commission, that they were not assisted by a ministry that should have issued some kind of regulation?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U136	No, you misunderstood.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U137	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U138	The government argued that it was unclear what would happen if the activities of the self-employed were not profitable. The idea of the bill is that sick days can be deducted from their entrepreneurial income. Would this have had a significant impact on the success of the bill if we had written the sentence 'This could lead to a reduction in the income of the self-employed or an increase in the loss'? Would this have helped the government to understand the matter better? What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U139	I don't think it would have affected the government's understanding. I don't know how to take a stand here, we didn't discuss it in the committee. You didn't ask that question in the Commission either.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U140	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U141	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I am very sorry that the Committee on Monetary Affairs rejects this proposal for a very sensible amendment to the law initiated by the Socialists. But you said that the Members of the Commission felt that the issue was important, that it should be dealt with further and that a complex solution should be found. Has the Commission, the Government Coalition or the Fatherland and Res Publica Union discussed when this complex solution will come up? Indeed, a large proportion of businesses need a solution to their problem. One particular solution has been put on the table, but you do not want to support it. When will this complex solution come before us so that we can start discussing it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U142	The Commission did not discuss this, since this issue could be discussed again. Since the Members of the Commission were of the opinion that the regulations relating to the self-employed are topical, I think that this could be discussed again in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U143	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Kalev Eagle on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U144	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Social Democrats are actually before the Riigikogu for the third time with this bill, but for the second time in its composition. We are doing this again because we believe it is important to give more equal treatment to forms of enterprise. When people work as self-employed people, it is the easiest, cheapest and fastest way for the state to solve people's employment and livelihood problems. Nevertheless, our liberal state is distrustful of self-employed people and ignores their problems. The results have not allowed themselves to wait a long time and are very eloquent. At the beginning of 2009, there were 53000 self-employed persons, and 28512 at the end of 2012. Despite the loud rhetoric of the government coalition to support entrepreneurship and the strong use of active labour market measures by the unemployment fund, the number of self-employed people continues to decline. One reason here is the fact that self-employed people have much weaker social guarantees, including the prospect of non-existent sickness benefits. This is despite the fact that they pay for health insurance on the same basis and at the same time as the employees. The government's views on uncomfortable draft laws have become a genre by themselves. The reasons for not being supported are sometimes pathetic, but sometimes it is embarrassing to read this demagogue. From the opinion of the government this time, we learn, among other things, that because self-employed people have a higher degree of independence than employees, a break in work due to illness does not mean that they will have a loss of income. It also expresses the fear that, when self-employed persons receive a calculated sickness benefit, they will unduly start taking sick leaves, ignoring the treatment prescribed by the doctor, or deliberately causing injury to themselves. It's a pity for the officials who, by order of the government, have to write this shit together. If the State does not trust its company, it is too much to expect the company to trust its country. In an atmosphere of mutual distrust, it is not possible to promote entrepreneurship. It is time for the government to overcome the complexes and fears associated with the self-employed. We recognise that the draft should be supplemented by a clause on how to take into account the sickness benefit of the self-employed person for the current year if the previous financial year ended at a loss. This is within the reach of both the initiators and the Committee on Monetary Affairs. So, in summary, the bill deserves to be supplemented, not rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-28_U145	Thank you very much. Any more calls? No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The Commission's proposal is that draft 533 should be rejected at first reading. We must vote on this proposal. Let's get ready for the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting against the draft proposal of the commission 533 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 41 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 30 against and no abstentions. The draft has been rejected at first reading. Ladies and gentlemen, Today's agenda is exhausted. Closure of the sitting at 11.56 a.m.
