ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-10_U1	Dear fellow Members, Honourable Riigikogu! Good morning. We will begin the 10th working week of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu, Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-10_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of seven members of the Riigikogu, I will report an inquiry to the new minister, Mrs Anne Sulling, knowing that by the time she answers her questions, she has had enough time to settle in and familiarise herself with the main problems in the field. The question concerns the EAS, which has been the subject of news especially in recent days, but also before Mrs Sulling took office. Established in 2000, EAS should promote business and regional policy in Estonia, but in recent years there have been serious problems with EAS managers, entrepreneurs have criticised the EAS subsidy distribution system and, as the public knows, EAS has had shortcomings in its substantive work. For example, in 2012, EAS supported the innovative parking system developer with a total of EUR 600000 for Spot Parking, of which EUR 298000 was immediately paid out. A year later, the company went bankrupt and the EAS support had to be written off because the foundation did not submit the claim to the court in due time. Either it was forgotten or it was not forgotten, in any case the application was not submitted. In this regard, we have five questions for Mrs Sulling. They are substantive rather than case-by-case. What, in his opinion, is the biggest problem facing EAS today and how should it be solved? What is the status of EAS compared to similar agencies in Finland, Singapore, Sweden and Germany? What's going on in the EAS Council? If 622 companies have been granted grants during the 2004-2010 period and 41 of them are bankrupt, what is your assessment of the current scheme? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-10_U3	On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have accepted an inquiry. According to our Home and Working Procedures Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on its further processing. Good fellows, we'll do a presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-10_U4	74 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 27. Now, let's get to today's agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-10_U5	The first item is the third reading of the Defence Union Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Defence Forces Service Act and other Acts Amendment Act 579. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? They do. I'm opening negotiations. I ask Urmas Reinsalu, representative of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, to the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu! Good fellows, there's too much noise in the hall. Please, let's keep it down, respect the waiters and listeners!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-10_U6	Dear members of the Riigikogu! First of all, good luck in the work of a member of the Riigikogu for new nurses and colleagues!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-10_U7	Good waitress, I'm sorry for one second! Good fellows, there's too much noise in the hall. Please help the manager, let's keep it down! The manager can't do his job.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-10_U8	Last year we celebrated Veteran Day in Estonia for the first time and it was not a one-time event, tradition continues. Also on this year's St. George's Day, the patron saint of the soldiers, we celebrate Veterans' Day all over the country. We congratulate all men and women who have fought for Estonia's freedom and who still do so in the Defence Forces and on foreign missions. Over 2 000 men and women have participated in foreign missions to protect the security of the Republic of Estonia. Over a hundred of them have been injured, some have left their lives on foreign missions and in the performance of the official functions of the Defence Forces of the Republic of Estonia. With this draft, which we are processing and approving today, the Estonian society will be able to recognise those men and women who have participated in foreign missions that have been injured. We also have the opportunity to help and support the relatives and dependants of those who have left their lives on foreign missions. There are concrete steps to be taken on this draft. Firstly, for the purpose of supporting the contribution of all mission veterans, the status of the mission for their military service pension is considered to be double. Secondly, the pensions of injured soldiers will be increased, on the principle that the amount of the pension does not depend on rank or place of employment or on which duties were injured, but is equal to all soldiers. At the same time, the pension of all military personnel increases. Third, the survivor's pension will be increased for children whose parent has fallen on the Estonian Defence Forces' missions or in the performance of their duties. So this is one of the practical steps we take together to repay our debt to those warriors and wives who are in active service. The Veteran Policy, which was approved by the Government a year ago, provides for a number of further measures. The next step is to implement an advanced training and retraining system for those who have attended military missions and to set up a psychological counselling system. In the spring of this year, the East Tallinn Central Hospital should be operated by a rehabilitation centre that will help injured soldiers to cope with the new situation and recover. So I wish us the strength to take these steps, both to the government and to the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-10_U9	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Let us move to the preparation of the final vote on the draft 579. I will put draft 579 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 73 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. Draft law 579 of the Defence League Act, the Defence Forces Service Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic has been passed as a law. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-10_U10	We come to the second item, the second reading of the Electricity Market Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Law amending and implementing the Law on Law Enforcement and the Law amending the Law on Natural Gas 557. I ask Toomas Tõniste, member of the Economic Commission, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-10_U11	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Commission discussed the draft for the preparation of the second reading at its meeting on 24 March, where representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications Timo Tatar and expert Viive Šavel also participated. Within the deadline for submitting amendments, only one proposal was submitted and it was from a member of the Riigikogu, Kaja Kallas. NGO Lilleküla Society, Elering AS and Elektrilevi OÜ together with Imatra Elekter AS and VKG Elektrivõrgud OÜ also gave their opinion on the draft. The draft debate found that as the draft relates to the further transposition of the directive, which is urgent, substantive issues, including the proposal by Kaja Kallas, will be discussed together with the draft law amending the new electricity market law, which will come to the Riigikogu's proceedings within a few months. At the same meeting of the committee, a member of the Riigikogu, Kaja Kallas, withdrew his proposal. The Commission decided to make 19 amendments to the draft, all tabled by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The amendments are mainly linguistic, editorial and conventional. The definition was aligned with the law amending the natural gas law already adopted, the law amending and implementing the law on law enforcement, as well as the wording of the Law of Obligations Act. For the reasons set out above, the title of the draft had to be amended. The Committee on Economic Affairs decided to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 9 April and to propose that the second reading be terminated. The Riigikogu Board decided to appoint a second reading of the draft by 10 April in the preparation of the plenary session agenda. The Commission decided that if the second reading of the draft was completed, the final vote on the draft would take place on 16 April. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-10_U12	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Is there a desire to negotiate? No, I don't. I would ask for your assistance in examining the amendments. 19 amendments from the commission have been received for draft 557: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18 and 19. We have examined the amendments. The position of the commission is to conclude the second reading. The second reading and the second item are closed. Good fellows, today's session is closed. I thank you and wish you the strength of your work! Closure of the sitting at 10.13 a.m.
