ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U2	Good afternoon, President of the Republic, Riigikogu, Prime Minister, Ministers, constitutional officials, Excellencys and guests! I wish you all a very beautiful day and I will open the VIIIth session of the XIIth Riigikogu. I ask the President of the Riigikogu, Eiki Nestori, to speak at the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U3	Honourable President of the Republic of Estonia, Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic and the diplomatic corps! The last six months of the Riigikogu's membership are special in that we start plenary sessions in a significantly changed world. In a world where an empire has brazenly and with the support of weapons, it has begun to increase its sphere of influence. In a world where the former North Korean practice of organising cross-border kidnappings has been revived to upstress tensions. In a world where it is understood that the end of the Cold War as such has probably ended. Behavior standards from decades ago are no longer working well and new solutions are being sought. What is happening in Ukraine inevitably reminds us of both the distant and the nearest history. It's like reading an old book: Chamberlain has brought peace, Danzig is joined and the plane Kaleva is shot down. Today Estonia is part of the free world. Today, too, it is up to us to do what the end of this book will be. For us, in the last 25 years, the choices were self-evident, or no choice. The choices were made with the support and knowledge of the majority of voters. Nevertheless, I believe and know that many of you, if not all, have come over the last few months to answer the clear and worrying questions of the electorate: what will happen to us, what will happen to Ukraine? The second question is much more difficult to answer than the first. Estonia, and also at parliamentary level, has always supported and will continue to support the free and democratic development of Ukraine. After all, they have essentially the same choice as we had: east or west, Gulag or university. I am convinced that the Riigikogu will ratify with great support the agreements concluded within the framework of the Eastern Partnership of the European Union. But we can answer the first question unambiguously and with a straight back. Estonia is a member of NATO collective defence. Article 5 on collective protection is the foundation of the national community and will remain in force for as long as NATO exists. The Estonian army, along with its bases and skills, is part of NATO. Permanently, not temporarily. Our particular feature is that we are on the verge of this confrontation, and therefore there is a legitimate need for greater concern about the situation. But the question that starts with the word 'whether' doesn't really exist. And it's been at least ten years, if not longer. Since 1992, the Riigikogu has consciously kept two areas out of the majority-dis Minority movement. These are foreign and defence policy. The desire is for the same line and understanding to continue in a dramaticly anxious new situation. The assumption here is that there are two things to know. First, more open communication between the government and the Riigikogu than usual. The government and the Riigikogu committees have also repeatedly proved this at this critical time and it can be assured that this cooperation will be permanent. Another prerequisite is the constructive nature of the exchange of views. Interparty competition on 'Who is the rightest Estonian? 'is inappropriate here. Unfortunately, however, there are signs of this already. With regard to the violent transfer of an Estonian state official to Russia, experts should also be able to recognise where they may, with their opinions, harm both this official and the Republic of Estonia. Let us beware of this. Seriously! There are several drafts on our desk that talk about the protection of the weaker and minorities in society. The open debate in the Commission on drafts relating to labour capacity reform, together with the NGOs, has been fruitful and the common section is now clearly greater between the different concepts. The willingness of the Government of the Republic to cooperate is also supported. The idea of supporting people who have lost their job capacity on the labour market is beautiful and right. Reforms cannot, however, be done on paper alone. Such a major change must be credible and tangible and understandable to the parties. I hope that we will continue this reform in the same open and constructive spirit. The debate on the new Child Protection Act also needs constant cooperation with stakeholders. This new law has indeed been long awaited. Ladies and gentlemen, This world, to which we think it belongs, is based on the plurality of opinions and democracy, negotiations and agreements and respect for these agreements. Most sympathetic attitude toward the minority. This world, which poisoned our people's consciousness for 50 years, punished a different person for whatever reason, with the death penalty, prison, expulsion, or public contempt. Each was automatically different from the enemy. Now we've been living in a free and multiplicative society for over a few decades. We should not hate but respect the rights of minorities as well. In doing so, this minority needs not protection from the majority, but equal rights to live their lives. Nothing more. Estonia does not need a cohabitation act to get its nose up and say: look, we are no longer Soviets either. Estonia needs this law so that every person living here can arrange his or her life together in a reasonable way, not living in the knowledge that he or she is excluded or worse because of belonging to a minority. And what does anyone here have to lose? After all, you can continue to visit a church or a public official, say 'yes' and be happy. And you can't do that without living together and being happy. The discussion of the Cohabitation Act triggered an unprecedented dialogue between voters and elected people in Estonian society. This lavine of opinions contained inscriptions and insults, but there were also many arguments. Although I do not agree with all the writers, I am very pleased that people have decided to justify their opinions and to give an opinion in their own name. I also like to receive letters and opinions from people on those drafts that have not been the subject of a separate civil society organisation to fight against. In addition to the election day, voters have the right and opportunity to express their convictions to Members on a daily basis. Knowing that I have the opportunity to communicate directly with politicians makes us stronger and less manipulative together. We do not need to be fully united about everything in order to save people, but we must have mutual trust to talk about difficult issues and to be willing to find a common ground. Knowing that the dispute about the Cohabitation Act will be heated, I have only one request for you: the opponents of the bill could also acknowledge that the adoption of this law cannot change anyone's preference for choosing a partner. It's still provided by God or nature, how someone believes in it. One topic raised in a painful society is called "Poverty." The words 'wage' and 'poverty' are not compatible with any understandable formula. In 2014, a person who is active in and pays for the work must not be poor in a country belonging to the club of the world's most advanced countries. The Riigikogu cannot replace the respective dialogue between employers and employees. However, Parliament can take steps to develop this dialogue and become a daily part of our working lives. In March next year, a new Riigikogu will be elected. According to some unwritten rule, I should invite you here today only to commit to lawmaking and to keep the election campaign outside this hall. It would be nice to pretend to be the simplest person who believes in this call, but I won't do that if you don't mind. It has become a tradition for Estonian NGOs to invite political parties to follow good electoral practice during the election campaign. Indeed, not all political parties have joined this call. Nevertheless, I call on you to follow the principles offered by the NGOs in the processing and discussions of draft laws in the Riigikogu's plenary and committees. For example, it is not difficult to praise or defamate the idea itself, not the person or party that has raised the idea. This is a call, not a proposal. Therefore, it cannot be voted or taken before the vote for a ten-minute break. And let us be bold about the development of new ideas also as regards the ability of the chosen body to respond better to what is happening in society. The Riigikogu cannot stand in the way of open society. It must be clear what is being done here and why. It is natural for parties to want to be distinguished in the pre-prepared time. At the same time, anxious times in Europe are forcing us to show where we are prepared to cooperate in the interests of the common interest. I sincerely hope that we will be able to find a balance here. Good luck!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U4	Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U5	The President of the Republic of Estonia has the floor on Toomas Hendrik Ilves. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U6	Honorable composition of Riigikogu XII, Prime Minister and members of the Government of the Republic, ladies and gentlemen, good friends! We are now living a restless and difficult time. I have repeatedly confirmed that Estonia's security is better guaranteed than ever before. Less than a week ago, we were able to confirm this when President Barack Obama, right here in Tallinn, clearly and frankly said that Tallinn, Vilnius and Riga are as well protected as Berlin, Paris and London. We have made the right decisions in our time, from the expulsion of the Russian troops 20 years ago to compliance with the joint agreements already in NATO. Now we see it wasn't for nothing. The world around us, our closest neighborhood has changed. The reality has become what we hoped not to see again. There's a war going on in Ukraine. It was started by a country whose border is a few hundred kilometres from Tallinn. The masks have fallen over there. We see Russia isolating itself more and more from democratic countries. Former so-called "Minister of Justice' of the so-called "Donetsk People's Republic'. From the territory of Estonia, the Russian security service kidnapped the Estonian citizen of the FSB, took him to Moscow prison and even prevented the Estonian consul from meeting the Estonian citizen. Russia's military action has led to sanctions against democratic countries. Estonia is also doing everything possible with its allies to make sure that the Estonian citizen who was kidnapped from here quickly returns home. But what is happening in our neighbourhood reminds us: security and well-being are not self-evident. You have to work for both of them. And the point is to make an effort. Our choice of right decisions in favour of democracy, the rule of law, the European Union and NATO is now our best defence. Now let us continue to have the wisdom and strength to make the right choices. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Four years ago, when I opened your first session, I formulated the Estonian target for the coming 20 years, as I see it at least. I believe that there is only one way to sustain and develop the Estonian people and culture. We need to design an Estonia where our friends want to be and where our friends want to come. It's within our power. Since we are a small country, changes can be implemented quickly here. The emergence and implementation of the best ideas is easier here than in the big country. Our goal can be to create the best living environment in the world in Estonia. Estonia could be a country dominated by reason and kindness, where everyone can exercise themselves, creating spiritual and material wealth. Where we trust and value every human being. Where everyone does the best for himself, for the good of the family and for the good of society. Such a country does not include complacency with the trampling and humiliation of others. Estonia must be a tolerant and liberal state where fundamental rights and equality of all people before the law are respected. I am therefore pleased that the bill to guarantee the rights of same-sex couples is finally on your tables. The tone and manner of this debate reflect the current state of Estonian political culture. It is when we discuss this issue that we stand at a crossroads, where we go on deciding which countries and nations we want and can be, what value world we belong to, where we want to belong. Every year, Estonia must become greater by spirit, influence, well-being. Will the division, distrust, and anger of society help to move toward this goal? Not helping. Ladies and gentlemen! The democratic rule of law does not belong to the members of the Riigikogu as part of a special status. The members of the Riigikogu must have the rights to ensure the unhindered performance of their duties, sufficient independence to effectively control the activities of the government. And that's it. In Estonia, all people are equal before the law. In the event of a suspected offence, it must be possible to collect evidence. No matter who's in question. Abuse of state power, including illegal monitoring, is prohibited in any case. An effective control mechanism must therefore respond to any limitation of fundamental rights. I think we need to work here on strengthening control. For example, the Chancellor of Justice could be more involved in monitoring the legality of surveillance activities and procurement of information. I hope that you will be able to move forward in this direction before the elections. Respectable members of the Riigikogu! On the threshold of the elections ahead of us in March, we need to look back and think about whether the Riigikogu has increased Estonia by its decisions and actions since the last elections. I hope that the voters will do the same. Today, it would be premature, like a teacher, to shout out all the grades. In my opinion, the current composition of the Riigikogu has done many things well and correctly. Let us take as an example the legitimisation of collective memos and popular initiatives that have emerged from the proposals of the people's assembly, which has provided citizens with an immediate opportunity to participate in the legislative process. I very much hope that this right will be used in good faith and with hope. Because Estonia will only be better if we all, really all, put our strength on our shoulders, without fighting anyone or anything, but only for the best decisions, sincerely and with conscience. At a time when the struggle for spheres of influence has returned to Europe, where the gap between democratic and undemocratic, whistling laws between arbitrary countries is increasing, it is particularly important that we all strive to stand up for human rights and our hard-won freedoms so as not to slip into the praise of authoritarianism, which we have already seen in the statements of many politicians in the Member States of the European Union. I will put it to all political parties: be constructive with criticism. Come out with clear and feasible plans. Let us use the pre-election time to compare future scenarios, to examine their advantages and mistakes. Most highly developed countries face the same concern: the future can no longer be built on economic and population growth. Jobs requiring little training are disappearing at an ever faster pace. However, people's expectations of well - being do not go away. Countries compete for educated and busy people. Young people, as well as older ones, move more than ever to work, study, and self-realization. Languages and borders no longer stand in the way. This is a reality that denial will not take us forward. We must therefore ask ourselves what Estonia can do to make sure that we are successful in global competition. How do we create a living environment that keeps its own and attracts smart brains and clever hands from elsewhere to create well-being? How to take as high a step as possible in the hierarchy of values creation? How do you make sure that it's here that you invent, design, and make a profit? How can we attract people here who help us increase the wealth of society? How can public administration be rational, flexible, and bright? How can we get rid of substitute activities that waste time and money and interfere with decision-making? Do we have to distribute the money collected from taxes and state assets to keep the inanimate units upright, hoping that some of them might die out themselves? This question concerns many areas of life from schools to local government units. Delaying painful and inevitable decisions will harm Estonia. I am not calling for thoughtless decisions to be made simply to do something, on the grounds that this is going to work itself out or that it might get better. In many cases, decisions with unclear effects are not only harmful, but even contrary to the Constitution. There are many questions that the electorate expects answers to in the soon-to-be campaign. I want to hope that participants in the Spring Election Campaign will have a conscience to avoid two cheap scams of uncovered promises of money and disparaging Estonia. Instead, focus on an honest choice for the future. I stress that the electorate's mandate can and must make strong decisions. Because as I said last winter, what brought us here won't take us any further. In the short term, the decision-makers may be subject to harsh criticism. People will be upset if there are no reforms, but the government will be cursed to the bottom of the country at any time. So we have it, so it's elsewhere. It is easy to be united against what exists. It's more complicated, but it's better to agree and decide how to proceed. There are times when levels and stability can and must be maintained. And there are times when you can't get the old way anymore. Responsibility must be taken, decision must be made, action must be taken. Accept setbacks and comfort yourself that a fair assessment will only come when the results of the reforms are in place. This is again the time of great statesmen and stateswomen. Ladies and gentlemen! I've already touched national defence in a broader sense. International cooperation, keeping the hand on the pulse of developments in Ukraine, holding as much influence as possible in the European Union and NATO, an adequate level of defence spending and a smart defence plan are what a country can do. The citizen can and must participate in national defence in accordance with his or her abilities and capabilities. But in addition, every person can protect Estonia in his or her head and in his or her heart. It's easier for everyone to do it than the best example of every day for every person in the country from here in the castle of Toompea, Stenbock's house and ministries. Thank you for your attention. Happy New Year to you! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U7	Thank you, Mr President. [[The male choir sings.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U8	Once again, we thank the singers of the Academic Male Choir of Tallinn University of Technology and their conductor Peeter Perens. Last time they played Ester Mägi's song "Soov." Thank you, singers! [[Let's hear it.]] Now is the moment when you can pass on the drafts and inquiries. Heili Tõnisson is the first to sign up as a representative of the Government of the Republic. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U9	Mr. Chairman! Good Riigikogu! Today, the Government of the Republic initiates ten draft laws and submits one draft decision of the Riigikogu. Firstly, the draft Act ratifying the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and Georgia, of the other part. Secondly, the draft Act ratifying the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Moldova, of the other part. Thirdly, the draft Act ratifying the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and Ukraine, of the other part. Urmas Paet, Minister of Foreign Affairs, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the above three draft laws in the Riigikogu. Fourthly, the draft law on ratification of the Annex 'European Communities and their Member States' to the General Agreement on Trade in Services of the World Trade Organisation'. Urve Palo, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Fifthly, the draft law amending the flag law of the ship and the ship's registers law, land register law and matrimonial property register law. Sixthly, the draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure, the Law of Obligations Act and the General Part of the Civil Code Act. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by the Minister of Justice Andres Anvelt when dealing with the two draft laws mentioned above. Seventhly, the draft Act on Ratification of the Additional Protocol to the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety to Liability and Compensation for Damages in Nagoya, Kuala Lumpur. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Minister of the Environment, will represent the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Eightth, amendment of competition law and related amendment of other laws. Ninthly, the draft Act on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Kingdom of Morocco on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion. By tenth, the Government of the Republic will submit a draft of the Riigikogu's decision to approve the state's consolidated financial report for the financial year 2013. In processing these three drafts in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. By the eleventh, the draft law amending the Act on the Institute of Performances and the Law on the National Opera. Urve Tiidus, Minister of Culture, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia when processing this bill in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U10	Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U11	Honourable Riigikogu! On behalf of the Committee on Culture, I will give the Riigikogu's decision 'Revocation of a member of the National Opera Council and appointment of a new member' to the proceedings of the Riigikogu. We propose to recall Esther Tuiksoo as a member of the National Opera Council, as her mandate as a member of the Riigikogu has ended, and to appoint Enn Esemaa as a member of the National Opera Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U12	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U13	Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Central Party Group, I will initiate a draft law amending the Law on Law Enforcement. The aim is to restore the ban on alcohol consumption in public places. We have seen what the abolition of this ban has brought to the street since 1 July. We have seen that putting a task on local governments, cities and municipalities does not work as citizens would like. The fact that every city and municipality must decide for themselves whether and where alcohol can be consumed in their territory creates very large national differences, so there is no precise understanding of which rules apply. On the other hand, it also places an obligation on the cities to check for themselves how their rules are being complied with. For example, if the City of Pärnu has determined where alcohol is not allowed to be consumed on its territory, the police will not check for compliance with this order, as the ban is imposed by a decree of the City Government. By returning the ban on alcohol consumption in general public places to the law, we also entrust the police with the task of verifying compliance with this law. Let us be honest, the amendment of this law means that the city of Tallinn is not obliged to keep these funny labels in Toompea and Kadriorg, which say where alcohol can be consumed. We would all like Tallinn to be able to establish rules on alcohol consumption across the city without being threatened by the Minister of Justice with a court. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U14	I've adopted 13 drafts. If they are properly completed, they will be processed in accordance with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Please, let's do the presence check! 84 members of the Riigikogu are present, 17 are missing. There are plenty of clarifications on the agenda. First of all, the Bureau would like to thank those committees that considered it possible to add this week's plenary agenda. The proposals for clarification are as follows: Defence Minister Sven Mikser has expressed his wish to make a political statement at the Riigikogu on Thursday, 11 September. The Management Board of the Riigikogu agreed to this, and on the basis of § 56 (1) (9) and (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu Act, I will supplement the agenda of 11 September with the political statement of the Minister of Defence Sven Mikser. It has to be said that the desire of the Minister of Defence to appear before us is linked to the results of the NATO Summit. Secondly, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has proposed to include the first reading of the Riigikogu's decision to release a member of the Supreme Court, Harri Salmann, on the Tuesday agenda. The Committee on Social Affairs has proposed to exclude from the agenda of the Tuesday, 9 September session the first reading of the Social Welfare Act, the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and the amendment of other laws, and to add to the agenda of the Wednesday, 10 September the second reading of the Health Services Organisation Act and the Amendment to the Traffic Act 667 as well as the second reading of the Health Insurance Act and the Amendment to the Health and Safety at Work Act 679. Honourable Riigikogu, with these clarifications, I shall put the agenda to the vote. Who's in favour of confirming the week's agenda? Please take a stand and vote. There were 80 members of the Riigikogu in favour of approving the agenda, there was no one against and there were two abstentions. The agenda is confirmed. 89 members of the Riigikogu are present and there are no 12. In these circumstances, we begin to answer questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U15	We will begin with an inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu, Kadri Simson, Tarmo Tamme, Valeri Korb, Urbo Vaarmanni, Ester Tuiksoo and Jüri Ratas. Kadri Samson has the floor on behalf of the heirs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U16	Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! This inquiry of the members of the Riigikogu to the Prime Minister has been handed over nearly four months ago, in May. But what is four months in the long term? As the final question of the inquiry concerns the 15-year period, which the previous Prime Minister, Andrus Ansip, promised to take us to the five richest countries 7.5 years ago, the four months will not really change the content of this inquiry. The inquiry was made when the economic indicators for the first quarter of this year were disclosed and showed that they were much more modest than the forecast for economic growth at the beginning of the year. Economic indicators for the second quarter have now also been published and the Ministry of Finance has reduced its forecast considerably. GDP, however, has no immediate impact on tax revenues, and in this respect, our first question has been put to the Prime Minister. Since tax revenues are still good in spite of the cooling of the economy, can it be assumed that the current budget discussions and the setting of allocations take into account that next year may not be so lenient in terms of tax receipts? We are also asking to what extent the impact of the European Union's sanctions on our economy has been taken into account. Since these sanctions have been in place for some time, perhaps the Prime Minister will expand his response and also talk about what is being done to support producers who have lost part of their export market. Finally, we ask this question, which was hot in spring. It is said that our economy has grown so badly because there was a warm winter in Estonia. On the one hand, it did not have a good impact on GDP and, on the other, it did not have a too good effect on people's saving behaviour, which shows that the money saved from heating went to buy, for example, food products or other essentials. How, then, could the warm winter have had such a big impact on Estonia's economic growth? I also wish the Prime Minister strength to put together the budget for next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U17	The question must be answered by Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U18	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! Thank you first of all for your good wishes, I am sure they will come in handy. I will answer your questions, which are indeed, as you said, already before the summer. Therefore, it is also possible to see at least some of the questions today in a much more optimistic light than it seemed at the time. The first question: 'The Ministry of Finance has forecasted 2% growth this year, which seems relatively optimistic on the basis of data from the first quarter, but since tax receipts are affected by the recession with a shift, it may have a more serious impact on the 2015 state budget. How has the news of the fall in GDP affected the establishment of next year's state budget? According to Statistics Estonia, Estonia's economy grew by 0.3% in the first quarter of this year and by 2.4% in the second quarter compared to the same quarters of the previous year. By this year, the Ministry of Finance expects 0.5% of economic growth, which is indeed less than previously estimated. At the same time, tax receipts exceed expectations. According to the Ministry of Finance, government revenue and expenditure reached a balance by the end of June, and overall the nominal government deficit could only reach 0.2% of GDP rather than the expected 0.7% of GDP. The government is in the process of preparing the draft state budget for next year, and the work is, as usual, tense. The draft is based on a recent forecast by the Ministry of Finance, according to which the tax receipts for 2015 will be close to the level we expected in the spring. So there are no big surprises. Both Estonia and the euro area and the economy of the European Union as a whole are slowly recovering from the crisis, but the total production is still below the potential level. If we assume that this year's setbacks in the economy will be temporary and our potential growth will recover in a few years, then a temporary slowdown in growth or a short-term recession will not require immediate correction of public expenditure. Therefore, the fiscal rules of the European Union provide for a structural balance of the budget to enable nominal budget deficits in the event of more negative economic developments. The second question: 'Estonia's economic prospects in the short term will not be affected by the economic sanctions imposed by the European Union on Russia in relation to what is happening in Ukraine and Russia's opposition to these sanctions because they affect our exporting companies to Russia. How much impact can these sanctions have on the Estonian economy? " According to experts from Eesti Pank, the impact of the sanctions imposed by Russia is limited to 0.2 to 0.3% of Estonia's GDP. The direct impact of sanctions imposed by the European Union on Russia on Estonia is even less so. The sanctions imposed by Russia have the greatest impact on agriculture and the food industry, as well as on road transport. Estonia exported €75 million of food and agricultural products subject to sanctions in 2013, representing 5.4% of exports of goods to Russia and 6.0% of total exports of food and agricultural products. Less than 10% of food products produced in Estonia are exported to Russia, as Finland, Latvia and Lithuania are the main destination countries for food products. It should also be taken into account, of course, that Russia imposed import restrictions on a number of companies already in January 2014, which is why exports of milk and fishery products to Russia decreased already in the first half of the year, i.e. the sanctions now very much on the subject before Russia. In the case of dairy products, the fall was as high as 36% in the first half of the year. In the past, the import of live animals and of pigmeat was already restricted in January 2014 and exports of meat products and live animals to Russia were therefore almost non-existent in the first half of this year. In the first half of 2014, exports of food products subject to the last sanctions to Russia decreased by 27% to EUR 28 million. The Ministry of Finance has taken into account in its summer economic forecast that Russian sanctions reduce Estonia's exports to Russia by 50 million euros, which represents 0.4% of the total exports of Estonian goods. According to Eesti Pank, the impact of the sanctions imposed by Russia, as I said, amounts to 0.2 to 0.3% of Estonia's GDP. This assessment is based on 2013 data. In view of the decline in the first half of the year, this impact may be less pronounced. If we come to what the interviewers asked for orally, even if the impact of sanctions is relatively small in the macro picture, it will certainly be felt in specific areas and especially in specific companies. Of course, the government must also try to help these companies, as far as possible. We're basically working on two scenarios. The first scenario is to support Estonian farmers in looking for new markets. The Minister for Foreign Trade and Entrepreneurship has also negotiated with a number of market representatives himself, and I hope that there will be concrete transactions. The second thing the sector has asked us to do is to open up funds for the next European Union funding period to farmers as soon as possible. Estonia is very likely to be one of the first countries in the European Union to mobilise funds for the coming periods. We have agreed in the government that in order to revive the economy, Estonia is trying to mobilise European Union funds in sectors other than agriculture as soon as possible. The third question: 'One of the reasons for the recession is the said warm winter, which reduced household heating bills. At the same time, the savings rate in Estonia has not increased, which suggests that the money left in households went into private consumption, which is reflected in gross domestic product. Doesn't the impact of the warm winter on Estonia's economic growth really indicate Estonia's non-existent economy? " Good heirs, the Estonian economy actually exists, and it does not deserve your irony. In the United States, for example, bad weather was also considered to be one of the causes of the poor financial performance of the first quarter, which, in addition to construction activities, hampered production, transport and the sale of real estate and cars. In both small and large countries, the weather can affect the economy. In Estonia, as we remember, it was not only the effects of the weather, but there were other factors that affected energy production. And if energy production continues to decrease by 25% in one quarter compared to the previous year, such a huge fall in the sector will also affect the overall picture. At the time of the inquiry, many doubted whether the initial statistics could be adequate, having seen that wages and tax revenues increased very quickly, etc. Now we know that the initial data has been adjusted to a very large extent and that the decline of 1.9% of the economy has become an increase of 0.3% according to Statistics Estonia. How such large fluctuations can happen in statistics is, of course, a separate issue. But, as you know, Statistics Estonia is independent in its work and maybe it is not practical for us here to criticise their reports too seriously. However, when I come back to statistics, private consumption statistics show that household and housing expenditure on electricity, gas and other fuels decreased by 7% in the first quarter compared to years ago, i.e. by about 13 million euros. What has now been done more precisely with this EUR 13 million is, of course, difficult to say. For example, household bank deposits increased by more than 120 million euros in the first quarter, or almost ten times. Retail sales of goods were 75 million euros larger than in the first quarter of last year. And there must have been some way of using the money that had been saved. Question 4: 'Your predecessor, Andrus Ansip, promised to move Estonia to the five richest European countries in 15 years. In reality, our GDP has not even returned to pre-crisis levels. How do you appreciate the promise made by the Reform Party and how far is Estonia from this goal? " In politics, setting great goals is not in itself the wrong way. Despite the fact that we also had a very serious recession and that there were considerable reasons for the recession outside Estonia, Estonia's economic growth has been among the fastest in Europe over the last ten years, and we are likely to have the potential to get much closer to many richer countries, if not to get ahead of them. So this objective, the content of which is actually an increase in the standard of living of the people of Estonia, I would certainly not be ridiculous. Rather, I invite you to think along and tell us what you believe are the great things that we must do to ensure that wage levels in Estonia are raised in a sustainable manner. We can see that both salaries and pensions have increased very rapidly over the last few years. We want this growth to continue. One concrete thing that the government can do in addition to reducing labour taxes, in addition to raising the threshold for the reduction of pension income tax, is to implement the labour capacity reform and also to help people who currently have to live on social benefits into active employment. This too will help us to get closer to this great goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U19	Thank you. Members of the Riigikogu have questions for the Prime Minister. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U20	In Estonia, the minimum wage has increased by more than 10% per year over the last two years, the median wage has increased by approximately 8% depending on the year and the average salary by more than 6% per year. These are most likely to be among the greatest growths in Europe, possibly even the greatest growths in Europe. It is important to know that the minimum wage has increased most rapidly in percentage terms, but the median wage and average wage with an increase of more than 6% are also at very significant levels. At the same time, employment has also increased, which in turn means that more social tax will be collected. It can therefore be quite certain that, just as this year, the incomes, or pensions, of our elderly people will increase completely next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U21	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U22	Mr Prime Minister! In your speech, you mentioned foreign markets that are currently being dealt with and where they are trying to channel goods that can no longer be sold to Russia. Can you tell me more about it? Specific question: which markets, which countries, which goods are these? What volumes are we talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U23	Thank you. That is a very correct and well-founded question. We have looked both east and south of the European Union. Of course, some goods are those that are the easiest or possible to realize only in the immediate neighborhood. For example, raw milk cannot be taken very far purely theoretically. This is for two reasons: firstly, it is spoiled and, secondly, the added value of raw milk is too low to be transported very far away. So it's not conceivable. That is why we are not only looking for new markets, but also looking for ways to increase the share of goods with higher added value and a longer shelf life. Typically, we are talking here about butter with a very high added value and a longer shelf life than milk, and we are also talking about cheese. Milk powder has a long shelf life, but its added value is much lower. All these things are handled. There are different estimates. Some say that all the milk that is received can be recycled. Others say that there is still a shortage of production capacity. Both the Minister for Foreign Trade and the Minister for Agriculture keep in close contact with economic operators and monitor whether restructuring can be carried out or whether investment grants are needed at an early stage, for example from European Union funds, in order to expand production of butter or milk powder in Estonia. Specific negotiations have come quite far in many places, but I would not want to say anything before specific agreements have already been concluded, otherwise it may create too premature expectations. I believe you will understand: the fact that ministers help Estonian companies negotiate is quite extraordinary for us. This has not been the case very often, nor has it been done very often in other countries. At the same time, I know that both north of us and south of us are looking for new markets in the same way. We have been discussing with our neighbours, both north and south, that there should be cooperation in finding certain markets. I really hope that the joint efforts of Anne Sulling and Ivar Padar will succeed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U24	No further questions. Thank you, Prime Minister. I'm opening negotiations. Do the inquisitors wish to perform? There are no requests, I will stop addressing this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U25	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! We always like to compare ourselves with our neighbours, and our comparison is also based on how Latvia and Lithuania are doing. As we know, Latvia and Lithuania had much higher economic growth last year than we did, and this year it is the same. The forecast for the next and the next year also shows that the growth of Latvia and Lithuania will be significantly higher than that of Estonia. The purchasing power of a Lithuanian person is already greater than that of an Estonian person. Should the government rephrase its priorities and give priority to Estonia remaining among the two richest Baltic states? How do we get out of this situation, because the current situation is sad, isn't it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U26	Thank you. With this question, you demonstrate that you do not know at all the state of the Latvian, Lithuanian or Estonian economy. Recently, a few months ago, there was a meeting of teachers in Latvia, which demanded that the teachers' wage level be close to the level of Estonia. There are plenty and more of these things. The Estonian standard of living, both in nominal terms and in view of the purchasing power, is the first in the Baltics, which does not mean that we do not keep our fingers crossed so that Latvia and Lithuania do well too. Latvia and Lithuania are important target markets and important economic partners for us and, of course, it is in our interest that they do well. However, the claim that Latvia or Lithuania is more prosperous than Estonia shows that they are not fully familiar with wage levels or statistics.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U27	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U28	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! Speaking about relations between Russia and Estonia, a member of your government, Mr Jürgen Ligi, Minister of Finance, said that basically this country could be forgotten as a partner at all. Is this his personal opinion as a minister, or is this the direction of your government to which we are moving in relations between Russia and Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U29	I'm sorry, your colleague was standing right in front of you when you asked. Would it be possible to repeat the key question that Jürgen Ligi said?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U30	Please repeat the question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U31	Mr Ligi said that basically we could forget about this country as a partner at all. I would like to hear your comment on this statement.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U32	Thank you. I must admit that I have not heard such a speech, and therefore I do not know whether this is an exact quote. But with this, we must bear in mind that trade with the Russian Federation has not been as secure, as stable as trade with the countries of the European Union, for example, over the last 23 years. That has to be taken into account! There are no politicians telling where entrepreneurs should and should not do their business. At the same time, politicians cannot fail to say if they see risks anywhere. The risks of trade with Russia have been highlighted for several years. Some people have considered this to be frightening, but now, as a hindsight, it can also be considered an adequate warning. You just have to take that into account. However, large profit expectations are often accompanied by higher risks in the business world. The safest trade is, of course, with the European Union and with those with which free trade agreements have been concluded.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U33	Lauri Laasi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U34	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I will continue, in a sense, the question posed by Tarmo Tamme. You said that the salaries of Estonian teachers are higher than those of Latvian teachers. Yeah, you're right. But what good is it if the Estonian teacher pays most of his salary to Sandor Liive's office or to the most expensive food in the Baltics? Why is it that according to Eurostat, the purchasing power of a Lithuanian person is now greater than that of an Estonian person?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U35	Thank you. To date, these statistics should also have been corrected. It was an error of methodology, the details of which can be explained in greater detail, but, in a very simple way, after the census was recorded in Lithuania and we had pre-population data. Secondly, in Lithuania, some goods and services are, I emphasise, also services prices considerably lower than in Estonia. But this low cost of services is often the result of low wage levels. According to current knowledge, Estonia's standard of living is the highest in the Baltics, given its purchasing power. In Lithuania, if real wages, real incomes and pensions were much lower than in Estonia before the correction of statistics, this comparison hardly makes anyone happy to the end. Secondly, it is very wrong to claim that Estonians are taking more money to Sandor Liive's office than Latvians and Lithuanians, as you said. On the contrary, Estonia joined the free electricity market and over the last six months the price of electricity has been cheaper in Estonia than in our southern neighbours, depending on the month, but about a quarter, even a third cheaper. This is due, on the one hand, to the adoption of the free market and, on the other hand, to prudent decisions on the establishment of energy interconnections. After EstLink 1, we have completed EstLink 2 cable, which is 100% operational. It has guaranteed us the most advantageous energy in the Nordic countries. In order to allow Latvia, like us, to produce cheaper electricity and our electricity producers to produce more, we intend to build a third power line in the Latvian direction. This increases our transmission capacity in the Estonian-Latvian direction. Just for your information, electricity prices are cheaper in Estonia than in Latvia and Lithuania, not the other way around.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U36	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U37	Thank you. Prime Minister! You also mentioned the raise that our lives have improved and people's wages have risen. I would also like to make a comparison here with Mr Sandor Liive. If his EUR 10,000 salary rises by 2000 and the minimum wage rises by just a little, then we will get a very nice average wage increase. The average wage is growing, but it does not really show that the poor person's situation has improved, so that his purchasing power and well-being have increased. Do you agree with that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U38	The next item is the inquiry into the situation of the poor in Estonia submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Ester Tuiksoo, Yana Toomi, Viktor Vassilyev, Tarmo Tamme, Eldar Efendiev, Enn Esemaa and Peeter Võsa. Please, on behalf of the heirs, Marika Tuus-lauul!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U39	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Mr Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, At the beginning of May, we launched an inquiry into the Centre Party Group, where we ask why much less poverty assistance was requested this year and also for the next few years in Europe than in previous years. And while in previous years the Ministry of Agriculture was involved in asking for poverty aid, this year the Ministry of Social Affairs is applying for poverty aid. Since Mr Taavi Rõivas was still the Minister of Social Affairs at the beginning of this year, it could be said that this was part of his work. According to the data provided by the Ministry of Social Affairs to the Fund for European Aid, there are only 45000 poor people in Estonia. This is based on the number of people receiving income support. In previous years, however, the Ministry of Agriculture transmitted to Europe the number of people living in absolute poverty, according to Statistics Estonia, and we have about 120,000 of them. So, this year, almost three times the number of poor people was reported, which unfortunately depends on the aid we receive. Lithuania, for example, receives many times more aid for people in need, as well as Greece. The sad fact is, nothing can be changed. This is valid for seven consecutive years because the next financing period has been approved. Of course, we want to know why this was done, either out of ignorance or out of the desire to deny the real number of the poor, in order to look better and more successful. This inquiry was based on our spring knowledge. Now we have a new knowledge that poverty aid is not at all possible this year. The Ministry of Social Affairs has not been able to negotiate this because there was no cooperation with non-profit organisations. Whether that's the case or not, that's what we're asking. Please, Prime Minister, the answer, you were the Minister of Social Affairs when you applied for help. I also ask you to read the questions! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U40	The inquiry must be answered by Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U41	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will answer your questions. The first question: 'When sending data to the European Fund for Aid, the government wanted to show Estonia's poverty to Europe in a better light than it really is. At whose time was the Minister of Social Affairs this information was sent to the Fund? ' During the development of the Fund's regulation and during the negotiation phase, Estonia was not directly asked about the situation of the poor and the number of the poor, so it cannot be argued that Estonia has submitted 45000 as a number of the poor. When drawing up the Fund's draft and calculating the Fund, the European Commission based itself on official Eurostat statistics available to all. The second question: 'What can be done to correct the mistake and to make Europe aware of the real number of our poor? 'Poverty data are collected and indicators are sent from reliable databases at European Union level, such as Eurostat. It is important to bear in mind that the reduction in the number of people living in relative poverty and the alleviation of absolute poverty cannot be achieved through the Fund alone. Moreover, if we look at these amounts, then the order of magnitude was last and is also around EUR 1 million per year during this period. However, if we look at the activities in the government programme that actually help to reduce poverty, we are talking about hundreds of millions. I'm sure you'll understand that the real, strong influence is elsewhere. We're talking about one million now, plus or minus maybe a few hundred thousand a year, which is one piece of the whole picture you've raised, the real picture is in hundreds of millions. So that's what you have to take into account when you ask these questions. The third question: 'As it turns out from the 13 May Eesti Päevaleht, organisations dealing with poverty were not involved in the decision-making process. Why were they not involved if the result would obviously have been more competent and more beneficial decisions for Estonia? ' The budget of the Fund was negotiated over a very limited period of time, which did not allow the discussion to be opened in a wider interest group. In developing the Fund's operational programme and programme, the Ministry will actively cooperate with poverty organisations and the food distribution system and other implementation issues will be decided in cooperation with partners. Question 4: 'Social Minister Helmen Kütt says in an interview in the same paper that food aid provided once a year does not bring people out of poverty. Do you also think that poorer families do not really need food aid distributed by the European Fund for Aid? ' Minister of Social Security Helmen Hunt's sentence has been ripped out of context. The Minister of Social Protection is of the opinion that, apart from food aid, people are being helped out of poverty by providing various supporting services and activities, as well as by creating opportunities for employment. Food aid distributed from the Fund's resources is undoubtedly important, but it should be borne in mind that the Fund's resources are far from the only way to tackle the poverty problem. Other sources, as I said, have a higher impact and also a greater financial weight. The government is committed to helping people in poverty, both through food aid and by increasing other subsidies, bearing in mind that support is well targeted. At the same time, it is important to provide people with more services to help them out of the poverty cycle and enable them to cope themselves. In addition to structural funds, Estonia contributes very much to reducing poverty through its own budgetary resources. From 2015 there will be both universal child support and needs-based family support for poorer families. When determining income support, the proportion of children is equal to that of the first member of the family. Free school lunch will be offered to upper secondary school students in addition to comprehensive school children. This list continues. Question 5: 'The Court of Justice has repeatedly pointed out in its judgments that the limit of living has fallen short of time because it is not comparable to a minimum statistical living. Do you consider it necessary to review and raise income support when and when? ' The income limit will be decided in the budgetary procedure and the possibilities of the state budget must be taken into account. However, one has been firmly agreed by the government: our aim is to provide greater certainty for families and to create opportunities for work and participation in society. During this year, the limit of living was remembered to rise. Secondly, we have agreed that it will certainly rise next year for families with children. This is a very fundamental decision, because coping with families with children is a very clear priority for our government. And, as I said before, there will be a repeat increase, I would say, as a precedent, in child support, both in the form of uniform support for all families and in particular for those families that need the support of the state most. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U42	Any questions for the Prime Minister? Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U43	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! I would still like to know why this year, less people than the previous years have been asked for poverty aid, and how much, or if at all, we will receive food aid support from Europe this year. The former Minister of Agriculture, Mr Seeder, has mentioned these figures very precisely in this Chamber. In his time, the benefits were very high.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U44	Thank you. Since the former Minister of Agriculture has an anniversary today, there are many good things to be said about him. He had a lot of things, at least from a distance, scary well. But more seriously, I hope that we will be able to rapidly mobilise, in addition to this fund, other European Union funds. If you look at this year, the reality is that funds are not yet open in any of the countries of the European Union. As Mr Barroso visited Estonia, we were one of the first to reach agreement in principle with the European Commission, so we got the basic measures and allocations in place. There is now a need to agree on an operational programme, and we hope that we will do so as one of the first. I believe that this year it will also be possible to open this fund, but in what amount, I do not yet want to say that. I hope it works.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U45	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U46	Thanks for the opportunity to ask. Mr Prime Minister, you spoke about increasing the limit of living this year. I'll tell you how much this limit of living is, it's 90 euros per month for the first family member and 72 euros for each of the next family members. On average, 85 euros per month is the limit from which a person can receive income support. Do you think that EUR 90 is a reasonable limit or must it be raised?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U47	Thank you. Since I was the Minister of Social Affairs at the time of raising the subsistence limit, I remember the size of that border very accurately. But as I said, we have already made the decision, at least by now, that families with children will certainly have this line rising. That's one. Secondly, it should be taken into account that the cost of housing is added to the subsistence limit. In principle, of course, we are ready to discuss raising the level of subsistence in the future, but it must always be assessed in the context of the impact on the labour market and on people's behaviour. The most preferred way to improve livelihood, both from the people's point of view and from the state's point of view, is, of course, to help people find a job, to help them to ensure that they are coping with themselves and their loved ones. One really big thing that will ensure the livelihood of a very large number of people in Estonia in the future, I stress, very many people, is the work ability reform. About a year ago, as Minister of Social Affairs, I also met with your group on this subject and experienced a very understanding attitude. I therefore sincerely hope that your group will deal with this draft very constructively, rather it will help and support it, because it will actually bring a great many people out of coping with the difficulties themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U48	No further questions. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U49	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, We were motivated by the fact that the Ministry of Social Affairs did not involve non-profit organisations in the decision-making process on European food aid, which are exposed to the poor on a daily basis. Why, for example, was the Estonian Food Bank not involved, who deals directly with this issue? Why was the Estonian Red Cross not involved, who deals with these problems? Why was there no cooperation with Estonian representatives of the European Anti-poverty Network, for example? Why was there no cooperation with the Estonian Alliance of Children's Rich Families and many others? It has not even been reported to poverty organisations that new support rules apply this year to help the poor, apart from food, for example, with industrial goods. We can see that other countries are not hiding their poor numbers in France, Italy and very many other rich countries are receiving poverty aid. Then why are we hiding it? It is clear to everyone that there are certainly many more poor people around us than the recipients of income support according to the paperwork. But on the last basis, as we understand it, this support was applied for, which may not be coming now. So let's ask why we want to look better. We're not that rich, we're poor. We have one in five people living in relative poverty in Estonia, one in 14 people living in absolute poverty. Every other unemployed person lives in relative and every third unemployed person's absolute poverty. We have increased income support, but the €90 allowance does not even cover the cost of a food basket. Our income support is more than twice as low as our retirement minimum of EUR 186. Our national pensions are extremely small, as has been mentioned in the report on the implementation of the European Social Charter, and we must report on this. Who, then, are we poor? The poorest of us must be the single mothers, as well as the 60+ people, the women who have no children, they are the deep poor. We have a low wage, which has already been discussed in this hall today, a person goes to work from morning to night, at least 40 hours a week, but receives a salary so small that he can barely pay his taxes, and after that it is still poor. According to the latest survey on European quality of life, Estonia has low wage levels and poor quality of life, purchasing power and living standards. That's what we talked about here in the spring. This published study says that our quality of life on a scale of 0 to 10 is only 4.5 points. The fact that 6% of employees live in relative poverty despite being employed and 1% even in absolute poverty also shows pay poverty. For example, more than 40% of people live in relative poverty on the banks, Alatskivi and Peipsiääre. Three years ago, we had 22,200 children, or 9% of all children, living in deep material deprivation. These numbers can be read here forever. We have over 90000 people without health insurance, almost 80% of working people earn less than 800 euros and half of them receive less than 400 euros. The government has spoken of an increase in the average wage and boasted about it. However, if we look at the large increase in government board members and other high-wage earners' salaries and incomes and we set aside wage increases for the recipients of the minimum wage, i.e. if the first wage rose maybe a few thousand and the other twenty euros, then we will get a very nice average increase. This, however, does not show the real situation. True, next year the minimum wage will rise to 390 euros, but at the same time we know that the 1% reduction in income tax is almost nothing for the low-wage earners. It is once again a gift to the wealthier that the Reform Party has done for years. So we really did have a lot of questions in the air today. Why did we still apply for poverty aid much less this year than in previous years? Why are we hiding the poor and playing ostrich? Why are we distorting reality? It will now pay us back seven years afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U50	Thank you. Do the members of the Riigikogu have a wish to speak? No, it's not. The Prime Minister has, however, wished to perform. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U51	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Coping with people is too important a subject to minimize it as you have done in your own questioning. If Estonia applied for 1.5 million euros a year instead of a million euros, it would be possible to significantly improve the livelihood of the Estonian people. I hope you will also understand that this is an important detail, but it is a detail and certainly not a big picture. Let us be honest about whether there is one million, one-and-a-half million or two million in this European Union action will not help the people of Estonia to make a better living. What's it gonna help? It helps if both parents have jobs in the Estonian family. Unemployment in Estonia has decreased and is significantly lower than on average in the European Union. Estonia wants to create jobs because we have a favourable economic environment. In this Chamber, we should discuss how to create even more jobs in the future. That's one. Secondly, Estonia will help people to cope better if wages and pensions continue to grow. Salaries and pensions are not increased by eloquences or demands, but wages and pensions can only grow if the Estonian economy is doing well and the environment here is where viable jobs are to be created. That's what we have to work for. Thirdly, poverty can also be significantly reduced if all those who want to cope with work want to be able to do so. You can contribute to this by voting in favour of the draft labour capacity reform. We are helping to improve the way many people cope with it. And not only financially, but here we are talking about people who want to be active in society. So I beg you, do not cut down on such an important issue as coping with people by reducing it to one European Union action and this small piece. It's not something that helps us in the big picture. Try to contribute to making the lives of Estonian people really better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U52	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U53	Aivar Riisalu, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Heimar Leng, Valeri Korbi, Vladimir Velmani, Lauri Laasi, Peeter Võsa, Enn Eesmaa, Eldar Efendijev, Tarmo Tamme, Kalev Kallo, Urbo Vaarmanni, Viktor Vassilyev, Yana Toomi, Ester Tuiksoo, Mailis Repsi and Kadri Simson will be discussed next. Ms Tuus-Laul spoke on behalf of the heirs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U54	Mr President! Mr Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, On 2 June, we submitted an inquiry into the decline in the activity of banks in rural areas. We can see that Estonia's larger banks have reduced the number of bank branches, ATMs and services offered in recent years. In rural areas, closed offices have been replaced by a limited number of postal banks providing services and larger settlements with one or two bank buses per month. At the same time, the prices of services have increased. At the beginning of this year, banks unanimously raised the price of handling cash, for example, by justifying it with a desire for customers to use more electronic channels. In the past, for example, larger events were visited by bank buses, but at the end of April Swedbank announced that their participation had been abandoned, which has led to a cash crisis in many cases. Swedbank has started to reduce the number of branches that can be settled in cash and exchange currency, shortening the opening hours of branches. Even a broken banknote cannot be exchanged in Swedbank's office. When we submitted an enquiry, the change in cash settlement mainly concerned Haapsalu's office. According to the Mayor of Haapsalu and the Chairman of the Council, Swedbank's activities show that Haapsalu is the outskirts of Estonia and that there is no need for it. The leader of the West-Estonian region of Swedbank was extremely arrogant, who asked rhetorically how many planes from Haapsalu would take off and how many cruise ships would take off to exchange currency and provide cash services. So that's a very arrogant attitude. It is clear to us that private capital cannot be forced to provide a service if it does not want to do so. However, the views of the country's regional policy interest us, and we ask the Prime Minister to answer the questions that we have asked, also how this trend affects our regional policy and, unfortunately, causes areas to become peripheral. What can the state do about this situation? What should the state do to increase competition in our banking market? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U55	Thank you. The inquiry is answered by Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U56	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear 17 members of the Riigikogu, I will answer your question. Question number one: 'We are in a situation where banks are reducing the banking services they offer. How do you see this trend affecting regional policy and the conversion of areas into peripheral areas, and what can the country do to change the situation? ' We have no doubt that banks in Estonia compete with each other and try to serve customers as well as possible. It is also to be expected that revenue will have to be earned to cover the costs. Banks that remain economically sound are not only in the interests of their owners, but also of depositors and ultimately of all of us. Since the creation of today's banking system, the Estonian state has not considered it appropriate to intervene in the choice of services provided by commercial banks or in pricing. However, competition and technological developments play a key role. Better connections, the spread of Internet banking and computer literacy have reduced customer demand for cash services and bank offices in both cities and rural areas. As a result, banks have been forced to look for more flexible solutions to maintain low-popular services, be it bank buses or cooperation with Eesti Post. There are certainly still untapped opportunities and I believe that banks, together with local authorities, can find reasonable solutions to ensure better access to banking services throughout Estonia. Question number two: 'How many planes are taking off from Haapsalu? How many cruise ships take off from here? ' asked Swedbank's head of the Western Estonian region in answer to the question of how the residents of Haapsalu and tourists visiting the city should cope without currency exchange. Such questions may be asked in Swedish parent banks, but it is unacceptable to ask them locally. Haapsalu is the centre of attraction in the region. If even the regions' attraction centres are unable to offer currency exchange services, has Estonia as a whole not become the periphery of Europe, where the number of attraction centres is much lower than we have thought so far? " Normally, when there is demand for a service, there are also providers of that service. There is no need to be a bank to deal with currency exchange. According to my information, it is currently possible to exchange currency in a bank office in Haapsalu. It is also possible for non-euro area tourists to withdraw cash euros from the ATMs of Haapsalu and Uuemõisa 12. According to Eesti Pank, there are nearly twice as many ATMs per resident in Haapsalu as on average in Estonia. The third question: 'You rejoiced when Swedbank announced that it would pay out 60 per cent of the profits earned in Estonia as dividends in the future. What am I to rejoice about when income tax on dividends remains in Estonia, but most of the profits in millions of euros go out of the country? ' Apparently, the heirs must agree that foreign investment has contributed much to the development of the Estonian economy, to job creation, but also to the stability of banking. Estonian banking is strong because the banks are well capitalised, in other words, the owners of the banks have invested enough money here. It would be quite fair if, alongside our investments, we would also be happy with the income earned by investors more than ever that the dividend policies of a particular bank and the dividends paid on the profits of several other banks provide a very grateful additional income to cover the expenses of the Estonian state budget. Question 4: 'The main problem of the banking market is the lack of competition which has made us the outskirts of Sweden in view of the banking landscape. What should the state do to increase competition in the banking market? ' Competition in our banking market is quite certain. Eight banks operate in Estonia on the basis of the Financial Supervision Authority's authorisation, as well as eight branches of foreign credit institutions. In addition, both loan and payment services are offered by several other financial services providers, be they savings and loan cooperatives, foreign exchange companies or Estonian Post. As of the end of June, we had 845 ATMs. It is possible to pay around 20000 points of sale with a bank card. This summer, when I went to the opinion festival, I saw for the first time in my life that it was even possible to donate with a bank card. This, too, is certainly a sign of time and brings charity closer to people. There were 140 bank offices at the end of last year and there are over 50 stops on the bank bus. The post office of Eesti Post has 220 locations all over the country. Thanks to the above, the most important banking and payment services are also available in smaller settlements. A working group has been convened to find solutions to further improve access to cash and other payment services in rural areas, under the direction of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. The result is expected to be achieved already in the autumn of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U57	Questions. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U58	Thank you. Prime Minister! Can you tell me how much these banks combined and Swedbank took out profits from Estonia last year?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U59	As a matter of certainty, I would like to answer that question in writing. So much can be said, however, that the level of the dividend payment is between EUR 20 and 30 million. I'm just thinking about the part of the taxes that actually comes into the state budget. These are quite considerable sums, but at the same time it has to be taken into account that banks have brought money into Estonia to a very large extent over the years, both in terms of loans and in terms of equity. To take a picture of the entire balance sheet, I would be happy to send you this reply in writing. Then you can make sure that, in many ways, due to the fact that we have foreign banks, the banking services in Estonia were very stable throughout the financial crisis, and the banks operating in Estonia, especially the larger banks, did not threaten major payment difficulties at any point, let alone serious problems until closure. There are very strong banks in Estonia and we can all enjoy it as citizens.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U60	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U61	Mr Prime Minister! You talked about the lack of ATMs, but we have a great opportunity to pay with a card in almost all places. However, here's the thing that every card transaction pays, and it doesn't pay a certain amount, but a percentage of the transaction amount, with 21⁄2 per cent of the card payment. This amount shall be paid by the undertaking to the bank when the transaction is executed. In Europe, prices are more expensive in some places than you pay with a card. We don't have that practice, but I'd ask where we're going. Are we moving towards introducing an additional tax for the benefit of banks compared to cash payments, which businesses will have to pay?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U62	Thank you. As you rightly said, there is no practice in Estonia that prices are more expensive when you pay with a card. On the contrary, banks encourage card payments, and not only banks, but also shops. This is because, as far as I know, the percentage of card payment is significantly lower than you mentioned, but it is probably a matter of negotiation between banks and companies, and it may also be even more expensive for companies and banks to handle cash. Not to mention that the tax authorities have less doubts about tax fraud in the case of card payments. If you ask what direction the services are developing in, I believe that the next year, the less cash will be used both in Estonia and throughout Europe and will move towards various electronic payment channels. We know that a bank card is not the only electronic means of payment. More and more new technological opportunities are being sought, which are even faster and even more convenient for people. So, rather, I think that in the future, the handling of cash will decrease. When it comes to what is cheaper for a citizen, mostly, it depends on the bank, but mostly it is that I have to pay something to the bank, either in Estonia or in a foreign country. If I make my payments with a card, I will not bear any costs. Card payments are usually cheaper for me and for you as a citizen, but certainly not more expensive than handling cash.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U63	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U64	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! Of course, dividends are part of business, and when banks pay dividends, it is great, the state gets budget revenue and we all get richer. The question, however, is that companies do not pay dividends but lend this money to their subsidiaries. There has already been a case in which Nordea Bank argued with the IRS. The tax office lost and had to pay EUR 1,5 million in interest costs. As far as I know, banks lend around EUR 200 million a year to their subsidiaries and do not pay dividends. Do you think that such a tax system is correct, or do you think that the Reform Party will review it and add something to it? I don't think that's normal.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U65	Thank you. As I said when I answered the question put by Mrs Tuusi, if I remember correctly, the banks are actually paying dividends. If Swedbank, the biggest player in the market, says that 60% of the bank's annual profits will be paid as dividends in the future, this is the official policy of the bank, which they have announced publicly, and the entire 60% of it will also pay taxes to the state, as foreseen for the withdrawal of dividends, I personally believe and hope that this will serve as an example for other banks. Of course, the bigger the company is, the bigger its social obligations will be to set an example. This decision by Swedbank is certainly worthwhile, and I consider it reasonable that when profits are taken out, it is precisely as a dividend.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U66	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U67	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! You said there were 20,000 ATMs where you could withdraw money. I have no reason to doubt that. The machine was taken from the Riigikogu, but we'll be fine. But you see, people's cash is not just from ATMs. If a country's grandmother wants to order a treebreaking service, for example, she can't pay with a card because the neighbor doesn't have a slot to put it in. So cash is still in business. If the same grandmother has to pay the bills, she'll go to the post office and pay the money for being accepted. So cash settlement takes place, and it costs people money. Do you not want or do you not know, or do you not intend to do anything to make life easier for people in the country?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U68	Thank you. I was wondering where that question would come from. But if the question is, are we going to do anything to make it easier for people in the country, then, of course, we are going to. One more fact-finding detail. You said cash could be taken out at 20,000 places. It's imprecise. My exact claim was that at the end of June we had 845 ATMs and 20000 outlets where a card can be paid. Just for the record.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U69	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U70	Thank you. Prime Minister! Since today's questioning is about the regional impact of banks' activities, I will tell you about the closure of a bank office in South-East Estonia. That's where the bank point was. Surprisingly, when I went there to get a point service, it seemed that a change had taken place, but the quality of the service was very bad. Literally, it seemed that the specialists had left and the intern had remained. I am far from blaming this service point employee, but if changes are made in the banking sector, the quality of the service must certainly not become worse. At this point, the hat fell in front of our Minister for Economic Affairs, Urve Palo, who has taken on this subject with great force. Do you agree with me that banking in rural areas must also be of high quality?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U71	Thank you for a good question. Yes, I agree with you. And I do not think there is anything deplorable if, as an active citizen, you would also give a signal to the directors of a particular bank in this area if you see that the quality of service has deteriorated. Not to complain about specific service providers, but simply to make sure that the drivers know that people are not happy with them. This is the only way to improve the service.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U72	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U73	Mr Prime Minister! Four to five years ago, there was a strong talk about the emergence of a new national bank based on Estonian capital. Now we see that it doesn't exist. Can you tell us why it is so difficult to create this bank and whether it will come to Estonia in the future or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U74	Thank you. Recently, there has been a lot of news in the media, especially in the media belonging to Tallinn City, that the City Government of Tallinn wants to make a separate bank. In practice, of course, we have seen nothing but slogans. Maybe there's some background work going on, I'm not exactly familiar either, but I guess life will show you if this thing goes beyond the slogan. As I said, there are eight registered banks and eight branches of banks in Estonia. If we take larger banks, those with a nationwide network will have at least four. In fact, even more, LHV and BIGBANK, as well as a number of others who have very actively entered the market and want to significantly expand their service portfolio. To say that we have no competition or that there are too few market makers, I do not think we can. Which, in my opinion, would help, but this is my assessment as a citizen, and I have also spoken about this once as a member of Parliament's Committee on Monetary Affairs, is if banks were to cooperate more with each other in creating a network of ATMs. It would certainly be more convenient for the consumer if there were no three different ATMs in a shopping centre side by side. In the end, I think it would also be more favourable to the banks. But I also understand banks who say no, it's not in their interests because they have the best network and they have more customers because of it. I also understand their business goals, and as Prime Minister, I will never give orders to private companies about what they can do. I don't think we want a country that is run by plan economic methods. However, as a citizen, I continue to believe that there could be more cooperation between banks.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U75	Thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish to negotiate. Do the inquisitors want to add anything? Prime Minister? No, I don't.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U76	Next is an inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu Heimar Leng, Enn Eesmaa, Eldar Efendijev, Tarmo Tamme, Kalev Kallo, Urbo Vaarmanni, Viktor Vasiliyev, Mikhail Korbi, Mailis Reps and Marika Tuus-Laul into statements that undermine the position of the Prime Minister in Estonia. Heimar Lenk will perform on behalf of the heirs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U77	President-in-Office of the Council. The title of this inquiry is indeed peculiar, perhaps a little unfamiliar. I will read it out again: from statements that undermine the position of the Prime Minister in Estonia. Such a subject rarely comes on the agenda in this Chamber, and it is all the more interesting to hear the Prime Minister respond to us today. We are talking about freedom of the press or freedom of information or freedom of the press. In the last two years, Estonia has fallen from third to third place among developed countries in terms of freedom of the press. According to Mart Raudsaare, Executive Director of the Estonian Newspaper Association, this index shows, among other things, that the Estonian government is trying to influence the functioning of the press. Now, from a specific case, it was already in the spring of June, which our politicians will remember and journalists will remember well. On 6 June, a letter from the Press Office of the Government of Tallinn Television arrived, saying that Tallinn Television is not considered an independent media publication. The same letter confirms that Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas's position is that Tallinn Television is not an Estonian public benefit channel and is not an objective television channel. A week later, it was announced that Tallinn Television would not be accredited or allowed to attend government press conferences. According to Tarmu Tammerk, adviser to the press ethics of Estonian National Broadcasting, the Prime Minister's ban on not allowing journalists from Tallinn Television to government press conferences is in sharp contradiction to the principles of democracy. In the meantime, a lot of water has flowed from rivers to the sea, time has changed, and the Tallinn TV is going back to the government press conferences. However, this whole spring war has left a bitter taste for the Estonian landscape of freedom of the press. In this regard, we want to ask the Prime Minister some questions to answer us why this happened in the spring. Why did he start attacking the free press? By the way, it is interesting to recall that the major or, let's say, the main part of the press, the large newspapers and media channels all began to support Tallinn Television and stood up sharply against the views of Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. We have asked some questions, one of which is: 'How do you think such statements by the Prime Minister could affect the reputation of Estonian press freedom? Don't you think that through your person, the power of the state has intervened in the activities of free media and in Tallinn TV law to distribute freely selected information? ' Secondly, Mr Rõivas, we ask that as a result of the Prime Minister's statements, the situation has changed around Tallinn Television, which refers to the emerging political censorship in the Republic of Estonia. There are a few more questions. We're waiting for Tavi to respond to them in his garment. I hope he understands his mistakes and explains why he took the wrong course in the spring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U78	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will respond to the inquiry submitted on 30 June. The first question: 'How do you think such statements by the Prime Minister could affect the reputation of Estonian freedom of the press? Don't you think that through your person, the power of the state has intervened in the activities of free media and in Tallinn TV law to distribute freely selected information? ' As you rightly pointed out, Estonia is very high on freedom of the press. The changes in this place about a year ago were certainly not related to the speeches made by the government at the time. If you read the background materials of this index, Estonia is prevented from reaching an even higher place by the ownership structure of Estonian media companies. Simply put, if there were more media companies in Estonia, the place of media freedom would also be even better. The fact that you call the free media of Tallinn Television is not, in my opinion, quite accurate, because Tallinn Television is funded by public taxpayers' money. And if you follow the Tallinn Television programme, there is no sense of criticism of Tallinn City Government or Tallinn's leading party. In my opinion, Tallinn Television and all the activities of the Tallinn media machine are the misuse of taxpayers' money. That is what I have said many times, and I will stick to that position. The second question: 'As a result of your statements, Tallinn TV has developed a situation that refers to the emerging political censorship in the country. As Head of Government, is this your specific aim and desire to restrict media freedom in Estonia? ' I cannot approve, either as a citizen or as a civil servant, of a situation where the local government, which does not have the means to secure nursery places or repair roads, spends millions of euros each year on the propaganda of the political party in power in Tallinn city, I would use such a word. I think that anyone who has even seen the Tallinn Television news program or also the show you're running, it's a coincidence that you, Mr. Heimar Lenk, will be there as the host, and you will understand what I mean. In my opinion, this is not a free press. The third question: 'A letter from the Government Press Office says that from the Prime Minister's point of view, Tallinn TV is not an objective and working channel in the public interest of Estonia. What facts do you think the official position of the government press office is based on the fact that Tallinn TV is not regarded as an independent media outlet? ' And the fourth question: 'Why was the accreditation of Tallinn TV refused at the government press office? Was this your guide to the press office employees? ' I would point out that Tallinn Television never had accreditation for a government press conference by the time it asked this question. The Tallinn Television had not, by the time this question was asked, embraced the elementary journalistic phenomenon of journalism to all of us, I believe. I said at the meeting with the press council that we would not hinder the participation of Tallinn Television in press conferences if the Tallinn Television took this small step This means that all people on whom false claims will be made in the future on Tallinn Television will have the opportunity to challenge it and the press council will be obliged to deal with these cases. I'm certainly not naive enough to think it solves the whole problem. Absolutely not. The taxpayer's money continues to cost millions of euros and does not necessarily change the quality of this programme. But at least it's a small step towards people who are interviewed and those who are spoken of in programmes being able to make their objections, just as in other media. And if this is not allowed, there will be an impartial recess in the form of a press council. Ultimately, my opinions and your opinions on whether or not the free press is a channel funded by the taxpayer and with politically oriented content are different. In my opinion, local governments should focus first on ensuring that all local government tasks are carried out in a high quality manner. It is only when it is done when children have kindergarten places, when kindergarten teachers have decent salaries, when the basic infrastructure, which is also the task of the municipality, is guaranteed in addition to education services, that it is possible to deal with everything else. Let the rest come in a different order. Unfortunately, the opposite has happened in Tallinn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U79	Thank you. Prime Minister, there are also questions for you. Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U80	Mr. Prime Minister! I'll grab, as they say in a beautiful press language, your word on the tail and ask like that. In Estonia, as you only admitted a moment ago in reply to Mrs Tuus-Laul, salaries are not what they should be, our pensions are not what they should be, our child protection and the social policy of the elderly are not at the level that should be. I will now grab the word and ask whether this means that there should be no public service broadcasting in Estonia, because the standard of living of the people is not as high as you said about Tallinn, that this should not be done because there are no kindergarten places guaranteed. Does this mean, to the extent of the country, that we are shutting down national broadcasting because the public is not yet guaranteed a European standard of living?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U81	Thank you. When issuing a broadcasting licence, as you are well aware, the formal conditions will be monitored and I have no reason to believe that these conditions have been violated. However, it must be taken very carefully into account that when granting a broadcasting licence, the content, independence and all that of the channels are not assessed. So the content of the authorisation is not evaluated.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U82	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U83	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! Most European capitals have their own televisions in Brussels, for example, have four urban televisions and are financed from the city's budget. But I ask you this: if, for example, events in Tallinn are not reflected in private channels or also on public television, or if they are, certainly only negatively, whether you think it is an impartial attitude and a balanced press.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U84	Thank you. This was also the subject of my colleague, Urbo Vaarmann, who asked in the second key, talking about small local governments in Estonia. You are talking about large European governments. There is nothing deplorable about local authorities reflecting local life through newspapers and other channels if their wallet allows it. Whether it is feasible or not for Tallinn, we can hold different opinions as politicians. In principle, however, I do not think that it would automatically be deplorable if there was a channel that would give an overview of what is happening in the district, city or rural municipality, and that it would also do so in such a way that the speaker was the mayor, mayor or deputy mayor. If you look at the Tallinn Television programme or the capital of the newspaper, and especially the newspaper Stolitsa, interestingly, both Capital and Stolitsa will come into my mailbox (I thank my mailman for this!) and I can compare what messages Tallinn City Government sends to the Estonian-speaking and Russian-speaking tallinians, then I would say that what is covered goes far beyond the framework of describing and reporting the work of one municipality. Very rarely, there is practical information. There is always what can be seen, which is not even a criticism of the government, that I, as Prime Minister, could certainly survive, because the criticism is always welcome, especially when it is argued, but it is a criticism of the foundations of the Estonian state and often unjustified criticism of the foundations of the Estonian state. Very many wordings say why the Estonian state is a very bad place to live. Everything else will be done, in every way possible, out of the logic of a local authority's voice. In response to Urbo Vaarmann's question that if the pages of the small rural municipalities report what is happening in the municipality, they say that the children's playground was finished or that it is planned to change in the school programme in the following academic year, and the speaker is the elder of the rural municipality, this is not a comparable problem to what Tallinn Television and Stolitsa are doing to disparage the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U85	Prime Minister, thank you. No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? It's what you want. I'm opening negotiations. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu, Heimar Leng, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U86	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office, for your say. By reporting this question here today and listening attentively to the Prime Minister's reply, I hoped that our young, indeed a few Prime Minister's experiences, head of the Republic of Estonia would not go on the glue to which he went in the spring of June. Unfortunately, the Head of Government has not learned anything in these months and says exactly what he said in the spring. What does that mean? This means that he criticises the broadcasts of one television channel, their performers, the content of the broadcasts and the world view of the performers, which is absolutely not suitable for a single head of state. Imagine if our big friend Obama, who was just here, would start criticizing the New York Times or the American Voice, which will also be issued with taxpayers' money. He will never do that, because it is not about dealing with the content of the press. That's not what you should do. This is also demonstrated by the fact that in spring, when the Prime Minister made a mistake in his performances and banned one television channel from a large television channel, because there are over 40 000 people living in Tallinn to the government press conference, the whole of Estonia rose free, I would say, really free press on the hind legs. I don't remember any editions that would've been on the side of Taavi Clothes. Everyone was in favour of Tallinn Television and found that this television should be allowed to a press conference. The Head of Government had no choice but to allow the reporters of Tallinn Television to do so. That is exactly the case, and I thought that by autumn Mr. Kõivas realized that the Prime Minister was not dealing with these issues. He needs to make sure that the economy of the country is in order and that people have a good place to live here. And if one government does its own television, it's his business. The voters have given Tallinn a record number of votes, and the Tallinn Council decides what it will do with the confidence it has gained from the people. Taavi Rõivas' home party and other parties have not gained power in Tallinn. I can be an oracle now and say that maybe someday in the future, in 20 to 30 years, they will be in power in Tallinn, but then they will definitely keep Tallinn Television because they understand the strength of this weapon. The question is that there is great envy that Tallinn TV works so well. I have heard the opinion of the people of foreign embassies that it is a good thing that Estonia has an alternative television channel, an alternative media publication that also expresses views other than those offered to us by mainstream media. When Mr Kõivas took the trouble to deal with the content of national broadcasting, to talk about how objective and balanced it is, I must say that the Prime Minister does not know this channel. It is not as objective as the Prime Minister has now praised. I have a suggestion, Head of Government: you have a long life ahead of you, do not make such mistakes in the future! Never go to the press! Whoever goes after it will lose. Let the media work as it should. The channel has a broadcasting license, it's a legal channel, it's a city power, it's all legal. What's illegal? Is it against the Estonian state that the Tallinn channel says that Toompea is making wrong decisions? On the contrary, this channel is fighting for the Estonian state to be better off if you make the right decisions at the Stenbock house. But as we see in this same example, you are wrong in your decisions. Let us respect Tallinn Television, come and turn to the people through this television channel and everything will be fine! You can't attack the media! Put it behind you! Tallinn TV is a very strong television channel, its programmes are strong. I also thank you for watching my show, Media Center. Thanks for that. I want to tell you that this is the most popular show on Tallinn Television. So I complimented you, too. Once again, never go after the media, Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U87	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Prime Minister! A broadcasting licence is needed to enable one all-Estonian channel to operate and reach the people. As we know, Tallinn Television has also been granted a broadcasting licence on several occasions. So, as Prime Minister, are you saying that this body, which is largely cooperating with the Ministry of Culture and in some way subordinates to it and who has issued this authorisation, has misbehaved and should reconsider its decision, that is to say ban this television channel, not grant permission?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U88	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U89	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu Chair to answer the question of Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U90	First of all, I'm told you quoted me completely wrong. I'm sure you can look at what I said and what I didn't say in the verbatim. But I wouldn't focus too much on disproving the quote you gave me. Comparing national broadcasting with Tallinn Television is, in my opinion, inappropriate. This is because national broadcasting, regardless of who is currently in power, is balanced and also critical of power. No one has ever forbade them to seek the truth, which is the sacred task of the press. No one has ever prohibited them from criticizing the government, and as you can see, they are very happy to do so, very carefully. I like it. I like national broadcasting financed by the state to be critical and professional. Tallinn Television is certainly not politically neutral. To anyone who has watched any news show on Tallinn Television, to anyone who has watched your lead once again, it is probably by accident that you are the host there, 'Medical Center', where, as one of the broadcast leaders, if I remember correctly, the editor of the Central Week, who is the leading party in Tallinn, will participate at all odds, it is quite clear that the Tallinn Television, even though it is financed from public resources, by all of us, including myself as a taxpayer, is all but politically balanced. Moreover, until the last moment, until my humble prayer, the Tallinn Television did not even subject itself to journalistic ethics. That is why I find the comparison with national broadcasting inappropriate. In order to be able to compare with the national broadcasting of Tallinn Television, this television should have a sense of criticism of the actions of the City Government of Tallinn, because, as we all know, there is plenty to criticize.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U91	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U92	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! I think every television channel is funded by someone, and the entire national broadcasting is funded by the state. I mean, we are all taxpayers, Tallinn is once again tax payers, private channels have their own financiers and everyone has their own political preferences. By the way, one of the world's most visible channels is Al Jazeera, which I know has never been expelled from a press conference. Do you really confirm what you said a few minutes ago, that you do not like a channel representing any of its political directions, not what is acceptable at national level? Do we really have to all walk in one foot? Do all channels have to represent one political direction, is that what you want?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U93	Thank you. No, absolutely not. All the channels created by private capital are free to represent any view of the world. In a very large number of countries, one or the other media channel has even publicly stated whether they represent a conservative, liberal or social democratic view of the world. This is completely public information and they represent it quite clearly. However, when it comes to the taxpayer, the channel financed by all our money, the situation is a little different. Therefore, I do not think it would be acceptable for national broadcasting to represent only one view of the world. And I'm glad they don't. They are independent and highly critical of the government, regardless of government policy or personnel. Very, very critical, I would say that with regard to the government, perhaps even the most critical media channel at all, if you look at the Estonian media market. Not to mention, of course, Tallinn Television, but I do not consider this market to be a part of, because the tilt of this channel is clear to everyone. As far as Al Jazeera is concerned, this channel does not, by the way, have permanent accreditation at a government press conference. As far as I know, they didn't ask for it either. Finally, it must be a coincidence that the question was raised by a leading politician in the Central Party, who is the permanent host of Tallinn Television.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U94	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U95	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! This is not the first time you have questioned the use of local government funds in this Chamber. I understand that the local government council elects the people, and this council decides what it will do with this people's mandate. Do you think that state power and local authority should live apart?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U96	Thank you. Yes, if there were any other way, we should take concrete steps and intervene. But we're not gonna do that, as you know. Of course, within the limits of the law, it is possible for the city government to decide on the use of the city's resources, but that does not mean that we, as citizens, politicians, should, in any case, approve it. And since your questions were about a specific local government media channel, of course I can't just talk about national issues in my answers either.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U97	Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U98	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! How to deal with these parish sites, which also only present the positions of a particular parish, only praise themselves and, at the same time, do not give absolutely any say to those who are in opposition? It's gonna be the same. Should all of these pages be locked down in a row and not even written to them?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U99	Thank you. You see, it may not be appropriate to start going through all the local government information channels one by one. But if someone else does something wrong, there's never an excuse to do something wrong. And to the extent that the city of Tallinn, not even close to it, is not even in the same order of magnitude, no other local government is making propaganda to its rural municipality or city leaders. That is why the criticism of the Estonian public about Tallinn Television and all other media in Tallinn is, I would say, rightly the greatest, and this is probably the reason why your partymates have asked me this question. Even if in Estonia there is, I cannot rule this out, really still municipalities that use taxpayers' money to make a completely uncritical press, without criticism of the self-governance, the extent to which it is done on Tallinn Television is, in my opinion, unprecedented and I believe that it has exceeded the tolerance limits of many citizens.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U100	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U101	Let's go to the next question that Priit Toobal, Urbo Vaarmann, Valeri Korb, Tarmo Tamm, Enn Eesmaa and Ester Tuiksoo presented by Riigikogu members on 12 June 2014. The inquiry is about cyber bullying in Estonia, which is answered by the Minister of the Interior, Hanno Pevkur. Please ask Priit Toobali, representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu Chair, to introduce the questioning!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U102	Dear Vice-Chairman, Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, A few years ago, a survey was carried out across Europe, including among Estonian children, on the number of Internet users. It turned out that 96% of Estonian children aged 9 to 16 use the Internet, which is a very high figure. This survey was carried out a few years ago and I am quite sure that the situation has changed and that there are still more than 96% users. One consequence of the widespread use of the Internet is that school violence has moved to the Internet. While classical school bullying in most cases meant bullying within or around the school house, cyber bullying is unfortunately no longer familiar with these boundaries. Cyber bullying, according to specialists, is even more harmful than physical or verbal bullying, as it is aggressive bullying through multiple channels, whether fora, SMS or social networks. The emergence of a new form of harassment has made it more difficult to detect and deal with bullying. If the child was previously able to hide at least from school bullying, cyber bullying is impossible because a smartphone and a computer also allow bullying between safe homes. According to a pan-European study, Estonian children are the first in Europe in terms of cyber bullying. Electronic means of communication allow constant and permanent harassment, the use of photographs and comments on them and video clips, which are first uploaded to the Internet and can later be extracted for a very long time and which can also be reloaded. In addition, they can be uploaded to other environments, social networks and portals. This means that it is not known how many people actually see this information, which causes additional stress to the victims. Since cyber bullying is a somewhat new type of bullying, and Parliament has not at least addressed it in this House, we found that if we submit an inquiry to the Minister for the Interior with five questions, it is a good form to deal with this issue in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U103	Thank you. I ask the Minister of the Interior of the Riigikogu's speech chair, Hanno Pevkuri, to answer his questioning!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U104	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! It is true that cyber issues have not been discussed very often in the Riigikogu Hall; even less has been said about bullying. Your first question is this: 'They say that technology and children are not guilty of cyber bullying. What has not been done to allow one form of bullying to be replaced by another? " There is no reason to claim that one form of bullying has been replaced by another. Temperate behavior reflects what is happening in society. In e-society, this will be reflected in a new form and using new tools. Tempted on social networks, by e-mail or by SMS or otherwise. The change in lifestyle has also led to a new type of offence, which we know as bullying in cyberspace. A 2014 study on child deviant behaviour shows that 15.6% of children have fallen victim to cyber bullying over the past year. In the last year, girls (about 19%), boys less (12%) have fallen victim. However, according to the survey, school bullying is more common than cyber bullying, with 22% of students falling victim to it during school time. A little more girls are among them: almost 24% of girls have experienced it, almost 20% of boys have experienced it. The study also showed that children are most often victims of crime at or around school. It is estimated that the number of offences registered in a child or educational institution or in its territory, which the police have considered to be a bullying behaviour, remained roughly the same between 2009 and 2013. According to a risk-behaviour awareness survey conducted on behalf of the Police and Border Guard Board, most of the students in the 4th, 6th, 8th and 12th grade in Estonia regard cyber bullying as unacceptable; it is considered to be an act of face-to-face mockery and threats of violence. Cyber bullying included online rumours, distribution of lies and embarrassing photos, postings and sending letters using another name, entering from another account, etc. This area of violence is known to be addressed at the level of the national strategy by the Ministry of Justice, which is currently preparing a development plan for reducing violence for the new period, for the years 2015 to 2020. If we also look at the development plan for the current period of 2010/2014, we can see that both plans include, as one of the risk factors, children falling victim to a crime in cyberspace. Estonia's best experts are involved in the preparation of the new plan, who are trying to determine the causes of the violence and the effective methods of intervention, as well as trying to spread the planned activities over the years. According to the Ministry of the Interior, it is crucial to focus the development plan on cyber bullying or violence and to establish links with other national strategies on ICT security and child welfare. It is important to cooperate in a wide range of areas such as support agencies, NGOs, parents, children's and educational staff, communication service providers and other actors. Interest, courage and ability to deal with the problem of bullying and other social problems are also essential in the light of their competence. We believe that prevention must start in kindergarten and school, and in all Estonian kindergartens and schools it must be possible to intervene effectively. Activities are often initiated with the support of external funding. Their sustainability must be considered even after foreign money has ended. Less individual interventions and more knowledge-based or evidence-based programmes at the universal level of prevention should certainly be envisaged in the country as a whole. Our aim could be to influence the entire generation in a systematic and consistent way. There is a need to improve people's awareness of online threats and to develop value attitudes about appropriate behaviour in cyberspace. On the second question, you are talking about the suicide of a British girl because of cyber-bullying and you are asking how many minors have committed suicides in Estonia in the last five years. According to the Causes of Death Registry, 38 young people lost their lives due to suicide in Estonia in 2009-2013, 30 of whom were male. It is difficult to point out how many suicides are directly related to bullying or specifically to cyber bullying, as there is often no cause for suicide from one to the next. Mental health experts, on the other hand, can point out the link between young people's Internet addiction and mental health, including suicidal behaviour. Question 3: "Is cyberbullying common among adults, and to what extent? ' We can rely on the latest victim survey carried out at the Ministry of Justice in 2013. According to this, 3% of 15- to 74-year-olds admitted that someone they knew or unknown had threatened physical harm by telephone, letter, e-mail or SMS, and 4% that they had been sent unpleasant messages or letters. It is also possible to analyse the language of approach. These analyses have shown that a large part of the breaches of the criminal protection order consist of a breach of the prohibition of communication when the perpetrator contacted the victim by telephone or Internet or sent a short message to him or her. For example, while more than 80% of infringements of the protection order were such in 2010, in 2011 there were almost half of these cases. However, adults' calls to online constables have been primarily linked to identity theft when false accounts have been made in the name of another person on familiarisation portals, etc. There have also been some cases of insult and defamation that have been resolved by civil procedure. Question 4: "Why has computer security training, including cyber-bullying prevention, not been included in a national study programme? " Good heirs! I would like to say that I have already dealt with the area of government of the Ministry of Justice, and this is a question about the area of government of the Ministry of Education and Research, but I would still like to stick to the area of government of the Ministry of the Interior, which is also very broad. But okay. We asked for comments from the Ministry of Education and Research, and I will give you this information so that you do not have to submit any new questions. According to the information received from the Ministry of Education and Research, this August, when changing national curricula, more attention was paid to shaping digital competences in basic school: managing digital information, communicating in the digital environment, content creation and problem-solving, as well as security. According to colleagues working at the Ministry of Education, there was still a need to develop ICT skills, including the ability to protect their identity and personal data, and to explain to whom and how cyber bullying should be reported. It was also pointed out that the issue of e-bullying is more broadly linked to a number of other competences that are being developed within national curricula. The information environment and technology and innovation are cross-cutting themes that develop knowledge, skills and attitudes in all subjects and in the wider learning environment and process. The topic of media critical consumption has been integrated into, for example, the curriculum of social education and Estonian language, and media literacy is linked to digital competence and IT competence. If you didn't have enough of that answer, please contact the Ministry of Education and Science! But I would be happy to talk a little bit more about this subject. The community is known to be more aware of the risks and to be better aware of inappropriate behaviour thanks to a number of projects and programmes in which, for example, the police are involved. One example of good cooperation is the 'Smart on the Internet' project carried by the Child Welfare Association, whose website address is www.targaltinternetis.ee. As partners, the Police and Border Guard Board, Education Information Technology Foundation and MTÜ Eesti Abikeskuses participate in these activities. Their joint contribution will promote secure internet and digital communication tools and help to prevent the dissemination of child exploitation content online. The project has organised outreach activities, including training and seminars for children, parents and teachers and social workers. There are also guidance materials available. Works as a children's helpline to advise on the safe use of the Internet and an online information link www.vihjeline.ee, which enables the internet user to provide information on online environments and other such environments containing child sexual self-determination. We have great hope that the European Commission's follow-up project will also take place next year and the following year. In addition, the Estonian Ministry of Education and Research, Police and Border Guard Board, Rescue Board, Estonian Cities Association, Estonian Association of Municipalities and other institutions have been completed in cooperation with the Rocca al Mare School. In addition, there is a study film that has been sent to all Estonian schools free of charge. In addition to acquiring skills for the use of the Internet and digital tools, programmes to prevent school bullying or to shape general standards of behaviour support cyberbullying as a value problem. Activities that contribute to security, create a psychosocial learning environment and develop social skills have been initiated or supported by both the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of the Interior. Examples include the bullying prevention methodology, the anti-bullying program Kiva, the support student TORE and the behavioral skills game, which is called 'PAX Good Behavior Game' in English. In order to improve the social skills of parents, the Ministry of the Interior has created a smart parent.ee online environment. In order to develop a well-known and adopted environment, it is planned to reflect online security information in conjunction with the Smart Internet project. Last question: "How has the web constable contributed to reducing cyber bullying? ' I'll give you a quick overview. The Police and Border Guard Board reportedly launched a project of police officers working in the online environment in 2011. There are currently three of these officials. The web constables have performed at events about 200 times last year and this year, reaching about 9,000 people with their message. This year's risk-behaviour awareness survey found that 61% of students in grade 4, 6, 8 and 12 are aware of the online constable, 8% have approached the web constable and almost two thirds of this 8%, namely 58%, said they were assisted. According to the police, the daily work of web constables on the Internet, in both Russian and Estonian social media, has contributed to a better communication environment and has created a good opportunity to get quick answers to questions. Web constables are open for direct communication, for example on Facebook, www.lapsamure.ee, www.perekool.ee, www.rate.ee and Twitter, also on www.odnoklasniki.ru, and it is planned to go to www.narko.ee. In total, more than 5500 visits were made to online constables in 2012 and 2013. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U105	Thank you, Minister. You have at least one question. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U106	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Minister, thank you very much. It is good to hear that so many measures have been taken to prevent cyber bullying and that different organisations, both the government and the third sector, have been seriously addressing this issue. I am asking the answer to the fifth question, driven by the question of web constables. The so-called guardians of the traditional prevention of school bullying are all school staff: teachers, school management, as well as school aunts. There are quite a lot of people in Estonia who could observe it when all teachers and other staff are counted together. But there are only three web constants. Does the Police and Border Guard Board plan to increase the number of online officers? There's a huge amount of stuff going on in the cyberroom. I think we could consider increasing the number of these constables.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U107	Thanks for the thought. Let's look at it on a need-to-need basis. If an additional link to www.narko.ee is required and the number of queries increases, the division of labour needs to be adjusted. At the moment, there is such information that three people can do this job, but of course we have the readiness to change. We don't hide our heads in the sand. The cyber issue is where we need to be ready to react. This will certainly be the case, if necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U108	Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U109	Thank you. Minister of the Interior! I'm coming back to the school and the Ministry of Education, which you touched briefly. When could the prevention of cyber bullying become part of a learning programme, so that children and teachers are regularly trained? I dare say the child spends more than half his time online, that depends on the family. When will it be systematically dealt with, so it will be part of the study programme?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U110	Thank you. You said one very important thing in the second half of your question that children are spending time online. I think the family has a bigger role to play here than the school. The school is still in the field of teaching. If the Internet is used in extracurricular times, the family has a huge role to play here. The family has the opportunity to set rules on whether and how much the child has the right to use the computer, and it is certainly possible to check what the child does online. That's where all the security starts. As far as the study programmes are concerned, this is what I leave the Minister of Education to comment on. I can rely on the fact that more attention has been paid to cyber bullying in the study programmes amended in August of this year. Of course, once the study programme has been changed, teachers must also be prepared to provide the material prescribed by the programme to students. They have to be able to do it. If not, you must seek help from outside the school. That's all there is to say. But I totally agree with the fact that you have to see what kids do online. Of course, I do not agree with the statement that young people are half their time online. This may be the case in some cases, but in very many cases this is not the case. If we look at the length of the school day and put in more time, which takes some kind of hobby, then there is a good chance that there will still be some time for the family. However, I do not rule out that there are families where young people spend half a day online, which is certainly very bad.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U111	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U112	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! The virtual world is a pretty big part of our reality, whether half or less, I'm not going to discuss it. We have e-state, e-services and e-registers, but without a doubt we also have e-crime and all kinds of e-crime, such as e-bullying or cyber bullying, for which it is quite difficult to impose penalties. Once upon a time, when a school child bullied others, he was put in a corner. I remember that there was once an adult people's tablet of shame where drunks and adulterers were written down. What do you think of such a great idea of creating an e-pity angle where these bullies can be written down, the state will keep an eye on this thing and lock it down, but let us comment?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U113	Thank you. There are all kinds of suggestions. Once upon a time, there have also been pillars of shame and all other forms of shame. I dare say, however, that one disgrace will not solve the role of shame, which will make it worse. Creating a trot is certainly not a good solution. I prefer professional assistance. If anyone has disgraced or bullied someone in the cyber world, then the bully must be dealt with. It's not about dealing, if you just put it somewhere in a shame, even if it's in the virtual world.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U114	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U115	Let's move on to the next question. Members of the Riigikogu Margus Tsahkna, Kaia Iva, Priit Sibul, Helir-Valdor Seeder, Andrus Saare, Aivar Kokk, Juhan Parts, Peeter Laurson and Liisa-Ly Pakosta submitted an inquiry on 12 May 2014 regarding the management of the Enterprise Estonia. The Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Urve Palo responds. I ask the representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu Chair, Andrus Saare, to introduce the questioning!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U116	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Me and eight other members of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union on 12 May presented this question. At that point it was very...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U117	Good waitress, I'm sorry! Good people who follow the trial and work on the balcony, I ask you to be a little quieter so that you do not disturb those people who wish to listen to the introduction of the inquiry!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U118	... the hot topic of the EAS board of the appointment of new members. It has been four months, and I have to admit that the new EAS Council is smaller than the former, there are fewer politicians there and more experts. So congratulations on the work you've done! But on May 12, we had different information. A startling article was published in the business paper that day, entitled 'The EAS Council was prepared with the help of the sheltering roof of the Reform Party'. It claimed that according to information from several sources, Kristen Michal, the chairman of the Reform Party's group, has already spawned most of the candidates proposed by Minister Anne Sulling. As we know, Anne Sulling did not have the authority to do this work at the time. On the basis of this information, we had five questions for the Minister responsible for this area of government, Urve Palo, Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U119	Thank you. I ask Urve Palo, Minister of Economy and Infrastructure of the Riigikogu, to answer his questioning!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U120	Dear Vice-Chairman, Happy Members of the Riigikogu! First of all, I would like you to have a hard time, just as there was a song here earlier, and a successful start to the new season! However, I congratulate the Fatherland and Res Publica Union on the new member. This is a big day for you all. Thank you, too, for asking! I'll read the question and then I'll answer it. The first question: 'Is it true that while Anne Sulling commented to the public on the appointment of the new EAS Board, you decided to withdraw the current members of the Board and to appoint new members of the Board? " The brief answer is that it is not true. Now I'm going to answer a little longer. According to the Coalition Agreement, the Minister of Foreign Trade and Entrepreneurship, Anne Sulling, is a member of the government and, of course, he has made decisions about the EAS Council. Unfortunately, by spring, no other person who looked aside from the activities of EAS had any doubt that changes in the foundation were inevitable, as intrigues and internal tensions seriously overshadowed the main activities of EAS. It is true that, by the time the members of the Council were called back and the new members were appointed, ministers who had added to the Coalition Agreement had not yet obtained the right to sign, because the amendments to the Government of the Republic Act had not entered into force. Until this moment, when the new ministers also formally obtained the right to sign, the legislation was signed by another minister of the same ministry, but the content of the document was nevertheless determined by the minister concerned by the agreed government document. This was the case in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and, as far as I know, in the Ministry of Social Affairs. The second question: 'What was your role in finding new members of the Council? ' As I said earlier, the Minister of Foreign Trade and Entrepreneurship was already responsible for the EAS and is also responsible for the new members of the Council. I offered a candidate for a council member, a lecturer in the Chair of EBS and an entrepreneur, Anto Liivati, because I thought that EAS needed freshness and new thinking, which Anto Liiva will definitely represent. The third question: Have you discussed the appointment of new members of the EAS Board with you or Anne Sulling, Minister without portfolio working with you in the same ministry, or with Kristen Michal or other politicians of the Reform Party and, if so, with whom and what has been the content of these discussions? ' The short answer is no, but I'm polite and I'm gonna take a longer answer. Of the politicians of the Reform Party, I am most often in contact with other ministers at a government meeting. Unfortunately, there is little time to meet the politicians working in the Riigikogu. However, speaking here today may be called a meeting with members of the Riigikogu. I do not see any Reform Party politicians in the hall now, but there are more members of the Riigikogu in the offices behind the screens, so I will probably meet social democrats here today, but also members of the IRL, the Centre Party and the Reform Party. It is not worth discussing the appointment of members of the EAS Board for a minister whose jurisdiction it does not belong to. With whom and what Minister Sulling has discussed, unfortunately, I cannot comment on that, I'm sure he can say it himself. If you add a bit of sarcasm, you can probably say that if such a question arose, it is probably the custom of the IRL that politicians discuss each other thoroughly every day, who they met, what they discussed and who thought. Perhaps the organizational culture of the IRL also includes discussing the most important topics with Kristen Michal. The social democrats do not have this custom, and there is no pay for lobbying in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, so neither minister deals with his work, affairs and tasks. Question 4: 'The Social Democratic Party Group submitted a draft to the Riigikogu proceedings on 19 February this year (603 SE), which excludes members of the Riigikogu from membership of the councils of state-owned companies and foundations established by the state. Why, however, have you once again appointed a member of the EAS Board? Does the current government coalition intend to adopt this bill? ' The Social Democrats really do not support the fact that the members of the Riigikogu are appointed to the companies of the state and that no social democracies can you find in any of the councils of the state's companies today. So we have kept our promise and will continue to do so. If the next Riigikogu supports the proposal of social democrats, then we will not see the members of the Riigikogu in the councils of state enterprises in the future. It requires support in this hall. Like a number of other socialist initiatives, this may not immediately materialise. We're willing to be patient when we know we're standing up for the right thing. When the time comes, this initiative will probably come true. Good things will happen sooner or later. A good example of this is child support, which did not want to rise in any way for 10 years, despite the fact that we put the draft on it almost every year. But now it's done, and school food is free of charge until the end of high school. At times, time and patience need to be provided and more explained so that good things can be better understood. Question 5: 'What is the explanation for the fact that Martin Hirvoja, a member of the Board of the Foundation, was already recalled by the EAS Board on the day following its appointment? Do you confirm that all the members of the Governing Council had previously met a member of the Board who had been called back on the day on which this decision was taken and had been informed about the tasks and their performance? ' When the foundation board changes, it is quite normal that the new board may make changes to the board of directors. I repeat, unfortunately, the problems with running the EAS seemed far away; they were also visible to those who had nothing to do with it. So changes were definitely needed. I am familiar with the activities of the new EAS Supervisory Board and the Management Board, in particular through the media. As I have said many times, this institution is in the domain of Minister Anne Sulling. Whoever met with whom and on the basis of which the decisions were made is, in my opinion, more in the memoir area. I very much hope that some member of the EAS Council will write them someday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U121	Thank you. This question does not concern this question. I'm gonna answer that by answering the next question, anyway. If there's any room left to be here, I think you'll get an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U122	Thank you. There's a question for you. Andrus Island, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U123	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I'll get on with it. EAS is known to play a very important role in supporting regional companies. When you visited Haapsalu and met with representatives of the closed PKC plant, you came up with your proposals for regional tax relief or whatever. In any case, that's why you came under fire from the Minister of Finance. However, we do not know why you came under fire, because we do not know the content of the proposal, everything remained as if it were a title. Are you ready to explain very briefly what this tax credit for regional companies could be and is this principle shared by another minister in your house?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U124	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U125	Let's move on to the seventh question. It was presented by members of the Riigikogu Mikhail Stalnukhin, Lauri Laas, Viktor Vassilyev and Kalev Kallo on 22 May 2014. The inquiry is about the fulfilment of the Ministry's objectives and is answered by Urve Palo, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. I ask Mikhail Stalnukhin, representative of the Speakers of the Riigikogu, to introduce the inquiry!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U126	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister! First of all, I would like to compliment you because the sentence 'We don't pay for chatting' sounds very witty in this hall. First time I heard it here, and it was great. But now to the question. According to the Statute of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the aim of the Ministry's activities is to create the conditions for growth in the competitiveness of the Estonian economy and for balanced and sustainable development through the development, implementation and evaluation of the results of the state's economic policy. In order to achieve the objective of the ministry and fulfil its main tasks, the Ministry shall exercise the holistic strategic direction of the administration, based on the strategy of the Ministry and the public authorities in its area of government and the resulting work plans. That is why the questions of the four members of the Riigikogu follow. So that the Minister doesn't have to read them, I'll do it myself. Question 1: 'The Coalition Agreement between the Reform Party and the Social Democratic Party states that, in order to stimulate economic growth, the tax burden shifts from labour taxation to taxation on resource use, pollution and life-saving and health-damaging habits are preferable. What else should you do to achieve economic growth? " The second question: " The coalition agreement does not include any measures to develop entrepreneurship among young people. However, in advance information from your ministry, you may find that you are very active in teaching entrepreneurship in schools. (This statement is slightly outdated. The summer is already over, and these school visits took place before the elections. It's been six months, but what can I do? It was a summer break. What do you say to young people, and what has the welcome of young people been like? ' The third question: 'Some years ago you wrote in your blog that one of the most serious problems in Estonia is that you see people leaving their home country due to lack of work and compared it to leaving the Estonians during World War II and later deportations. What can your ministry do about solving this problem? ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U127	Thank you. I ask Urve Palo, Minister of Economy and Infrastructure of the Riigikogu, to answer his questioning!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U128	Dear Vice-Chairman, Good members of the Riigikogu! I have a prepared little presentation to make it easier for me to watch, but pressing the "Enter" key won't help right now. What do I have to press to keep this going?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U129	You have to press on the arrows.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U130	I wrote down the questions so that I should not read them out, because 15 minutes on the whole answer is a relatively short time, especially on such important issues as Mr Stalnukhin has just introduced. For each subject, you could talk for much longer than 15 minutes. I will answer the first and second questions briefly so that there is time for the third question to be answered further, because it concerns the Ministry of Economic Affairs in particular. I'm just doing this because there's just so little time. To the first question, which I believe still needs to be done in order to achieve economic growth, I will answer that. I have said this before and I am not tired of repeating that the economy is not something that develops in a corner by itself. The economy is being developed by people and only by people. It takes people, it takes people to be born at all. We cannot talk about the country in a short-term perspective; we must always see that the country exists today, tomorrow and also in a hundred years' time. Firstly, it is important what the country's family policy is, i.e. whether children are born. I have the good news that at least child benefits will rise significantly, reaching EUR 45 per child next year. Secondly, it is important to have a national education policy, whether every child who is born will be educated in accordance with his or her abilities. I repeat, he must receive adequate education, including an education of interest. We are few, and all the potential should be exploited. Thirdly, it is important what is the state's health policy, whether people are healthy, what is the average healthy life expectancy, which is, unfortunately, relatively short in Estonia. I mean just the healthy life years, whether people are willing to work at an old age, and I also mean that men do not die young. The fourth important question is what social policy is, whether people feel safe in the country. If something happens, for example, if I get sick, if I become a single parent or if I become unemployed, does the state care about me and can I manage? All of this makes me feel safe, knowing whether I want to be in this country or not, whether I want to start a family here and work, bet here. All these policies must be tackled in parallel. There's no magic wand, it's a complex of measures. All of this helps in the end. When people are born here, they receive adequate education, they are healthy, they feel safe and well and they contribute to this country, then growth will also come. That was a brief answer to the first question. The second question was that when I go to schools, what do I tell young people? The truth is, I'm very happy to go to school. In the last seven years, I have done this many times every year. When they call, I don't say no because I like to communicate with young people. It reflects quite well back what is happening in society and in homes, because I not only talk but also ask questions and listen. Earlier, when I was Minister of Population, I talked a lot about issues concerning the Estonian population. Now, as Minister for Economic Affairs, I have been talking about issues that would encourage and support young people to make choices in life that their hearts want. I'm talking about how to plan a career consciously, what to do, where to contribute. Of course, one must contribute to education, for example. I am also talking about what personal qualities I think will help to make progress in life. All this I'm saying based on my personal experience. For 42 years I've lived in this world, and 22 years of it I've been in a field of work. Then I'd be happy to hear what the young people are asking. They can ask you anything, I'm happy to answer, no taboo questions. I want to encourage young people to believe in themselves and that anything is possible if they really want it. You argued that there was no mention on the website of the Ministry of Economic Affairs that you should deal with young people, that there was no measure to that effect. I think it would be nice if every member of the Riigikogu, or every parent, went to school from time to time to talk to young people about their work and activities. It could be the duty of every citizen, it doesn't have to be written down. All the more so, every fall, it's a great week like Back to School. You could go to school if you didn't remember. But now I am talking more about how the Ministry of Economic Affairs can help people not to leave Estonia. Yes, I once wrote that leaving people in Estonia is a big problem, and I will say so today. That's a big problem. Officially, 66814 Estonians or Estonian citizens lived in Finland in March of this year. Six months earlier, there were 4095 fewer Estonian citizens living there. Unfortunately, these figures speak for themselves and show that there is a problem. When they left after World War II, there were other reasons. Today, the cause is mostly labour poverty. The President of the Riigikogu spoke about this, who said that it is shameful and regrettable, because the words 'wage' and 'poverty' should not coincide. If a person goes to work and gets paid, it shouldn't be that he doesn't come out. So what do we do? Once again, I would like to stress that all the factors that I spoke about under the first point are playing a major role here: family policy, social policy and education policy. But I'm not going into them in detail right now. I'm talking about what the Ministry of the Economy can do. First I'm gonna talk about what we're gonna do, and then I'm gonna talk about what else we can do. The Ministry of Economic Affairs will contribute 382 million euros over the next six years to the development of entrepreneurship. This will be done in particular through EAS measures. The development of transport goes to EUR 447 million. This is a very important fact because it means developing infrastructure, which is part of the development of entrepreneurship. If we want companies to develop outside large cities, it is very important that we have proper infrastructure. We contribute 240 million euros to the roads, but also to the train traffic, to the recreational marinas and elsewhere. A total of EUR 69 million is foreseen for tourism. We want a family attraction centre to be built near Tallinn and a proper conference room to be established in Tallinn. We will contribute 182 million euros to the development of information technology. If you're interested, I can talk more about these projects later. There are 130 million euros in energy; there are also two interesting projects. The renovation and insulation of apartment buildings will cost EUR 102 million, which is about three times more than in the previous period (i am telling you now). So, in total, it is over EUR 1.3 billion, which is not a small amount. This money reaches the Estonian economy and gives people jobs. It is not the case that people only get a job for a moment, but the aim is still to contribute to the future development of the economy. Besides, as I said earlier, it is very important that life is habitable throughout Estonia. If a person lives far away from Tallinn and does not have a paid job or any work at all and has to make a forced decision to leave his home place, then often there is little difference between coming to Tallinn or going another 80 kilometres away. That is why it is very important for the Estonian state to contribute to making life worth living across Estonia and for people to be able to work outside large cities. First, infrastructure. As I mentioned earlier, without a proper road network, it will not be possible to move in rural areas and develop entrepreneurship. We will bet south, east and west in the coming years. For example, reconstruction will be carried out in 2014. 170 kilometres of main roads in 2008. However, I would like to say that we should think bigger and build motorways in three directions, starting from the direction of Tartu. My proposal is that by 2020 at least Paiden could be a four-way road. Secondly, energy. It is said that it is very difficult to make tax incentives on a regional basis. Indeed, in the case of labour taxes, for example, it is difficult to do so because it would be easy to defraud the country, and it would be difficult to monitor. But it's relatively easy to do in energy. For example, if a company with x number of jobs is established outside the metropolitan area, it is possible to offer a discount on connection to the electricity network or, later on, an electricity excise advantage. Currently, the electricity excise duty accounts for 5% of the total bill, plus the renewable energy charge, which is 9% of the bill. EU rules allow for a reduction in commercial consumers' electricity excise duties of nearly nine times, to 0.5 euros, and the renewable energy fee could be quite zero. This is the place where the decision is made that if the company is located outside the metropolitan area, is it possible to offer a discount for example for energy payment. This would also help to reduce transport costs, which are even higher for companies located further away from the port or the metropolitan area. Third, labour taxes. The staff register is now well established. It is high time to abolish the minimum social tax rate. It would benefit people working part-time across Estonia, but it would have a particularly large effect in areas where seasonal labour is needed, such as agriculture and tourism. Fourthly, it is time for local authorities to be legally obliged to engage in entrepreneurship, but also to give them rights and resources to do so, even land. At present, the development of the business environment is not the responsibility of the municipality. Often, if the state wants land to develop a company, for example, the answer is that it is not the responsibility of the municipality. Then it will be very difficult for him to get this land. Fifthly, public procurement should start to take into account the regional impact. It's a small thing on the one hand, but it could have a big impact. I will give a drastic example of Rõuge, where public procurement revealed that electricity is somewhat cheaper than local wood-fired heat. It was forced to choose electricity, although a significant number of additional jobs would have been created in the municipality as a result of the switch to wood heating. In my opinion, it would be worth looking more closely at the impact of public procurement on the development of local entrepreneurship and job creation. Last but not least, a dwelling. In my opinion, this may have the most impact. At the moment, there is a huge problem that people do not have the money to cope with housing costs. It is not possible for the state to raise the salaries of public employees overnight, nor can it say that the private sector has to raise the salaries of its employees. However, it is possible to leave more money to people by means of state-supported rental housing. I think time's up. But if you ask me, I'd be happy to keep talking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U131	Thank you. There really are questions. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U132	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! I am extremely pleased that you are happy to go to schools and to please your children. According to my memory, before the European elections, you went to Kohtla-Järve, Sillamäe and Narva schools. Oh, you went to Narva. All right, let's just stop at Narva. There are two people in Narva, the chairman of the council and the mayor, who are primarily responsible for developing entrepreneurship. You've met dozens of children. How many times have you been in Sillamäe, Kohtla-Järve and Narva, where there are six such officials, visiting them and talking to them about business?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U133	Thank you. In Narva, I attended a conference in Deloviy Vedomost on the development of entrepreneurship in the region. In this regard, I also attended Narva Pähklimäe Gymnasium, which was not an extra move. As for meeting local authorities in Ida-Virumaa, this is my plan this autumn. I've been to West Estonia and South Estonia for five months. Although my first official visit was to East Estonia, it was Narva, when I attended this Business Conference and attended several meetings during the day, I will now go back there and meet the leaders of the local governments as well. It's waiting for me.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U134	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U135	Thank you. Madam Minister! With our eastern neighbor, let's be honest, we have a pretty bad relationship. A minister, your colleague, said that an Eastern neighbour should be forgotten from among the partners at all. I have already asked the Prime Minister that question, but I know that according to the statute, your ministry is responsible for developing economic policy. My question has to do with this. Is the country's economic policy in the future also a place for its eastern neighbour? Or do we forget that there is a huge market next to us, where almost all the major countries and businesses are pushing to find their place inside or at the edge of it, or do we not know where?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U136	Of course, Russia is and will always be our closest neighbour. On the Russian market, I consider it somewhat easier for the Estonian producer to market its product, as Estonia as a trademark is usually familiar to the Russian consumer and rather in a positive key. We have to work harder to sell west. It's just for historical reasons. However, we must take political instability into account when acting on the Russian market. There may be decisions at night that could nullify exports from one sector or another that have already been properly implemented. We've seen it many times over the years. I remember a good time when I worked in the private sector. In 1998, Estonia experienced the first economic crisis, and the market fell by several tens of percent. I was running a construction company myself. I remember that there was a crisis in Estonia because there was a crisis in Russia. Many of our companies were very closely associated with Russia and the poor performance of this country directly affected our small country. From this crisis, companies learned, more oriented to the Western market, and the link with Russia is now much smaller, our exports to Russia are less than 10% of total exports. On the one hand, it can be said that this is too little, because this market is really large and close, but on the other hand, it makes sense, of course, to keep eggs in different baskets, because the markets may fall, and if we are very involved in one market, it will also have a very large impact. In the light of the crisis in Ukraine, we can see the problems our dairy sector faces, because they were perhaps the ones most involved in the Russian market. What can I say other than, of course, to maintain normal good neighbourly relations, but in the current Ukrainian war or the Ukrainian crisis, everything is much more complicated. However, economic operators make their own decisions. After all, it is clear that the rouble is devaluation and weakening, and the Russians' purchasing power is decreasing, so we are afraid that we will have fewer tourists from Russia to expect. When I visited the Port of Tallinn a week ago, I spoke to a company that exports anything to Russia other than milk, it exports products that do not fall under this clause, so that they may not be exported. He exports sports goods and stuff. He said they're already ordering less, because the purchasing power is just smaller. I guess it's always an entrepreneur to judge how many eggs he puts in one basket. However, the state certainly does not say that one country or another should not cooperate.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U137	Andrus Island, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U138	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In your report, you pointed out that regional influence was taken into account. I understand there are no tax incentives, you've given them up. But does this view that there could be exceptions to public procurement, energy and beyond, be shared by another minister, the Minister for Foreign Trade and Enterprise?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U139	Thank you. I'm gonna fix you. I haven't given up tax incentives. When we are talking about reducing the electricity excise duty allowed in the European Union or granting derogations in rural areas, they are also tax incentives. Personally, I have not said that there should be, for example, labour tax incentives, a sentence that I have never said. I have said that various measures should be considered, including tax incentives. I'm sure it's a place to consider in the future. There may be more tax exemptions, including those I can't see today. I would like to hear a discussion on this subject. One measurable and very easy-to-use advantage is the granting of exemptions for electricity excise duties. I've been to the country and I've met entrepreneurs. They have said that there is a labour problem because people have nowhere to live. This idea of publicly supported rentals has come from there. There is also a concern that logistics will become more expensive if it is located further away from the metropolitan area or its immediate vicinity. If the factory is in Sauel or Räpina, there is a big difference between how much money is spent on fuel and so on. One thing is the road network, but the other thing is that the state cannot pay for transport directly. Different electric excises would in some way help to balance this component. A few more words about the housing fund. This idea is not new in itself; it is new in Estonia because there are no publicly supported rental premises in Estonia. But when we look at the other world, it's a very common thing. Let's look at Finland. There are approximately 17% of the total housing market for publicly supported rentals, and almost half of the rental housing market is like this. In Sweden, they have an even greater share. In the Netherlands (you can see these data on the slide behind me) these dwellings are the most common. It's not for nothing, it's got a point. That's the idea of keeping more money in people's hands. These are small apartments, new, modern, less energy-intensive. If a person can find a favorable modern dwelling, he may think three times longer before crossing the border. Housing is very, very important. You asked me how Minister Anne Sulling felt about this idea. It's not his thing right now. Anne Sulling has a field, I have a field. In any case, this is not the subject of the current government coalition agreement. The coalition agreement has been drawn up, and according to it work is under way. But it's up to every minister to think about it. At least that's how I'm gonna find it. The world and life don't end with a coalition agreement, life goes on. We need to think about what else could be done, what is not in this coalition agreement, but what could be the next. I am preparing for the next coalition agreement to have rental premises in it, we can catch up with the rest of the world and we can offer modern and affordable and stable rental housing to young people who are less well-serving, as well as to older people.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U140	Thank you very much. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations and I'm asking for a speech chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U141	Mr President! Madam Minister! In eight minutes, I think I can only comment on your first answer, but that's a good thing. I wasn't going to come here at all. You said that the economy is being developed by people and that children must be born. Please explain to me how it is possible that, although everything is going so well and we are developing, you ministers, listening, it seems that life just shines and sparkles, in the 1980s more than 20,000 children were born each year, abortions were on average 10,000 a year, in 1988 and 1989 more than 25,000 children were born, but the number of children born in recent years is just over half of that number and abortions are around 20,000 a year. Does it depend on the economy or education policy? Is education policy one-sided? How do you even see education policy? Does education policy have to take into account all children or may some parts of society not be noticed? I'm a teacher, I'm a teacher. I've worked in general education and vocational school, I've worked with a lot of different children. I am telling you that it is not possible to obtain quality education in a foreign language. This is also evidenced by the fact that the Ministry of Education hid the statistics that it had received when Russian schools were examined, which had been transferred to Estonian-language education. While your current colleague Ossinovski was sitting here, he tried to get the statistics from Aaviksoo. When he became a minister, it turned out to be destroyed, it just didn't. The Ministry of Education is afraid to show us what happens to Russian-speaking children when they study at a school in Estonian. Are they the foundation of this whole economy? I don't think so. There must be a health policy. Viktor, please tell me how many disabled people we have! 130,000, I think. Could anyone have imagined that in the 21st century, we had 130,000 unworkable people? Where is the health policy when hospitals and their departments are closed one after the other? There will be a system that will leave almost everything without medical care, except for Tartu and Tallinn. After all, this system should also support economic growth. Let's take social policy. Does the state care or not? I'll tell you what I did today. When these beautiful speeches, filled with paato and all kinds of lies, had sounded, I mean the opening of the VIII session and Nestor and the President's speech, I ran away because a man was waiting for me at the door. She last came to see me about a year ago. He's the father of a very sick girl. The diagnosis is horrible, and this disease is not treated in Estonia. Successful operations are, of course, carried out elsewhere in Europe, but also in Russia, successful operations are carried out and are cheaper there. The parents had agreed a year ago that the child would travel to Russia, three days there to be examined and then operated, his life hanging from the thread. Then suddenly it became clear that the child is not allowed out of Estonia, it is necessary to complete a document that, according to KMA, takes 7 to 10 days. In Russia, however, no one will wait, and Father came here to ask for help. Then Ene Ergma showed himself to be a human being. Officials where the documents were filed didn't want to do it. The little kid's dying, but they spit on it. Let him die! I went to see Ene Ergma. I think I'm gonna love her for the rest of my life now because she met this guy, they talked, and the question settled. It turned out that this problem could be solved within a few hours. Now it's been a year and the child needs rehabilitation. In addition, the studies showed that he had another serious illness. But the fact that he's alive now is already a damn good thing, because all those who have been operated on in Estonia because of this disease have, unfortunately, died. In order to receive follow-up treatment, certain documents had to be finalised again. It was written in both Estonian and Russian media. Vadim took his daughter Varvara's documents, and maybe you'll remember this case, and the girl's name is Varvara's, I think, June 1st. They needed to be reviewed, checked and agreed so that they could move forward. It was June 1st. What's today's date? September 8th. Vadim hasn't gotten those documents back. He can't move on. He was told that this illness requires no medical attention at all to vitamin K analysis. He was also told that this would not be done in Estonia. He was already looking for a way to do it in Sweden. But he was told there's a blood collection point, so ask him. He asked and it turned out that this analysis is still being carried out here. First of all, there's an official who spits on the baby's life. Second, there is a doctor who does not know what tests are being performed and what tests are not being performed. Thirdly, it is the person who sets up certain amounts at the health insurance fund. This young family has already spent two million roubles, which is about EUR 40,000. They'll probably lose their lives and everything else. Is this a caring country? I sent this father to write a thorough conversion. I'd like to understand the medical issues myself. I'm gonna hand this over to your colleague in the government. I'm not going to go to the officials because it's pointless. Next week, I'm gonna hand it over, and then we're gonna check to see if the country really cares, even for once, about a girl whose life needs to be saved. Somehow I'm not very optimistic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U142	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U143	We will move to the eighth inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu, Ester Tuiksoo, Viktor Vassilyev, Urbo Vaarmann, Mailis Reps, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Valeri Korb and Tarmo Tamm on 20 May 2014. The inquiry is about the availability of specialist medical care and is answered by Urmas Kruuse, Minister of Health and Labour. I ask Viktor Vassilyev, representative of the Speakers of the Riigikogu, to introduce the inquiry!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U144	Mr President! This inquiry, ladies and gentlemen, was submitted on 20 May, so the whole summer has passed. But nothing's changed much. The story is that the Tartu City Clinic did not get contracts in the competition for a large number of specialist medical care specialties. A situation arose where Tartu's highly valued health care facility, which has been in place for decades and has been assisted for generations, can no longer provide gynaecologists, surgeons, neurologists, cardiologists, rheumatologists, orthopaedics, urologists or ear-nose-throat doctors. From 1 April, only an internal doctor and an ophthalmologist remained there, while the ophthalmologist's services were tightened so hard that the house was half empty. The provision of these services was fragmented between many other service providers. Although the Ministry of Social Affairs has directed us to develop health centres, as elsewhere in northern Europe, and the city's health centre was a ready-made health centre, this is not how it was done in Tartu. To some extent, the criteria laid down by the Health Insurance Fund for participants in the competition are to blame. There's a pretty accurate scoring system, the dots are exactly collapsed. Such a system is probably designed to reduce the liability of the officials or employees of the Health Insurance Fund, so that they do not have any room for decision-making: they simply add up the advantages and disadvantages and the result is there. But at the same time, you have to look at how life really works, because life doesn't always follow these points. For example, consideration will be given to whether there have been any complaints about the service provider in advance. But if there are new bidders who haven't done anything yet, there will be no complaints about them. So these criteria and points are not always as precise or as correct. Perhaps you could still look at the real situation and decide to make it easier for people, patients, residents of Tartu. We have asked a number of questions that have certainly been properly read by the health and labour ministers and the answers to which have been well prepared. In principle, one question is whether these criteria are the most appropriate and whether a country that has taken the path towards setting up health centres should not, however, have avoided fragmentation of services. This question is presented in the example of the Tartu City Police Clinic. The question is also whether and how the patient will receive high-quality and timely specialist medical care in the city of Tartu. There is nothing to be done, but medical care, namely special medical care queues, is politically ultimately the responsibility of the minister and this time the minister, not the minister, although there are two ministers in the ministry. There are more questions to consider, but the answers are important. There are no bad questions, there can only be poor answers. We all know very well that Minister Urmas Kruuse is an excellent speaker and always finds nice words about whether there is always content behind them, that is another question. We are fully prepared to enjoy Mr Kruus' answers to our questions. Will we be satisfied with them, I can't guarantee that. But I am quite sure that the residents of Tartu will sharpen their ears and listen either to the transmission or read after the verbatim. The final assessment of the Minister's work will, of course, be made directly by the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U145	Thank you. I ask Urmas Kruuse, Minister of Health and Labour of the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U146	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Does the honorable questioner ask you to read the questions, or can I go straight to the answers? You asked about the contracts of the Health Insurance Fund and about the contracts concluded with the Tartu City Police Clinic. If we talk at all about the principle of health insurance and the functioning of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, the aim of the Health Insurance Fund is to ensure a good level of health care in solidarity insurance throughout Estonia. In order to conclude contracts and to purchase services, the Health Insurance Fund concludes contracts with hospitals and health care institutions, while obliging the development plan of hospitals established by the Government regulation to conclude contracts with the hospitals mentioned in the development plan and to conclude them in the form of five-year framework agreements. In the county of Tartu, this hospital is the regional hospital of the University of Tartu Hospital, which is a health care institution offering top-level medical care in all specialist care disciplines. Pursuant to § 36 (1) of the Health Insurance Act, the Health Insurance Fund enters into a financing agreement with the health care provider or health care providers; according to paragraph 2, the Health Insurance Fund is not obliged to conclude a financing agreement with all health care providers. If the hospital network development plan hospital is unable to meet the needs of the health care services of the residents of the region, the Health Insurance Fund will announce an additional competition to find partners, generally for the outpatient type of care. When deciding on the conclusion of a contract for financing treatment with potential partners participating in the selection, the Health Insurance Fund will assess the circumstances set out in subsection 36 (4) of the Health Insurance Act. For better assessment and verification of partners, the Board of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund confirms the more precise criteria for each fact. All of the above documents are available to the participants in the selection and are known in advance. This process is very clearly regulated and regulated by the Administrative Procedure Act. The Health Insurance Fund is legally obliged to organise a selection procedure on the basis of uniform and clear evaluation criteria ensuring equal treatment for all participants. Based on this, it can be said that the process of selecting the contractual partners of the Health Insurance Fund is transparent and in full compliance with the law. One might ask that if the country has indeed taken a course towards the development of health centres, why did it happen that Tartu City Policy Clinic is as if the provision of specialist medical care services in Tartu is fragmented. Referring to the criteria mentioned above and to the decisions of the Health Insurance Fund's Supervisory Board, a member of this Supervisory Board is also an honorable questioner, it is important to say that OÜ Tartu Linna Polikliinik is a private health care institution that competes with all the others who provide these services in the city of Tartu in order to provide specialist medical care services. Indeed, the competition was intense, but it took place on the basis of common criteria. In order to ensure the best quality and timely access to healthcare for the insured, the various quality characteristics of the participants in the competition are assessed, including the competence of doctors, experience, etc. There are currently 18 health care institutions in Tartu that offer outpatient care services to insured persons in different specialties, in addition to the University of Tartu Hospital. The insured person can freely choose between these institutions. When it comes to the health centre, the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) measures that can be taken in the near future will also help to develop this health centre by investing in even better service for citizens. From now on, it may not be at all that the health centre has to provide services on such a reduced scale. After all, the primary health centre is a centre where three or more family doctors and other health and primary professionals are concentrated, and larger centres also provide outpatient specialist care. Last week I met with the Head of the Outpatient Clinic and the Mayor of Tartu and I was convinced that the city of Tartu has a plan to participate in the rounds for applying for these investments. In one question, reference has been made to whether quality, timely and best health care services are guaranteed in Tartu, based on the new partners selected. At least according to current estimates, there are no direct indications that the treatment service is less accessible. The length of the queues and the availability of the service between the different contractual partners shall be monitored. At first, however, for purely human reasons, some people may have missed new service providers, despite the fact that information about new partners was available on the website of the Health Insurance Fund as well as in institutions already operating. It is also certain that when a person is used to consuming health care in a particular place, a certain change can cause problems at an emotional level. If we look at the fact that more than 15 family doctors work in this clinic, and the whole plan of health centres is linked to the very clear development of the primary level, it is clear that in the city of Tartu, where nearly 100,000 people live on 38 square kilometres, the availability of specialised medical care is not logistically a problem either if the whole city is taken into account. But certainly some people may have had some difficulties during the transitional period. As I mentioned, it cannot be ruled out that after further competitions, this clinic can offer more services. It should be possible to provide a contractual service of at least 5% in the specialties for which a contract with the Health Insurance Fund has been concluded. The last question was whether, as a result of the introduction of the new system, the waiting lists for medical treatment would not be extended. It cannot be said that this is a quite new system, but the selection criteria have been specified and the legislator's will has been sought to make them more comparable. I would remind you that in the city of Tartu, outpatient specialist medical care services are provided by 18 other providers of specialist medical care services besides the University of Tartu Hospital. Therefore, we can assume that the order of treatment services will not be extended as a result of these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U147	Thank you. You have questions. Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U148	Thank you. Mr. Minister! I was, of course, expecting a brighter answer. What you read must have been written by officials under your command. They are very good people, I know them, they do their job professionally, but this answer was a little dull, still uniform criteria, equal treatment, transparent processes and all that. But I did pick out one extremely positive aspect. If I understood you correctly, you mentioned that you believe that the number of specialist medical care services provided by the Tartu City Police Clinic will increase in the near future. This is an extremely positive confirmation. I'm really happy that we were asking questions, and that's why things started moving. What guarantee do you have that this will really happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U149	Thank you. I do not entirely agree with the way in which you interpreted my response to the prospective increase in the volume of specialist medical care at the Tartu City Police Clinic, although one option is the recent decision of the Health Insurance Fund, which allows 5% of the additional service capacity over the contractual capacity. I meant that it will be possible to compete again over the period of validity of the following contracts. If I remember correctly the recent agenda and discussions of the Health Insurance Board, there was a question whether these criteria met one hundred percent of the objective that the legislator had in mind. We will certainly have to discuss, at the next Council meetings, whether what happened in the new agreements has improved or worsened the protection of the patient's interests, in the light of the experience we will have in the first period of the agreement, i.e. one year. This means whether, on some issues, the Health Insurance Fund could not be based on certain regional specificities, rather than having a uniform shell competition. The Health Insurance Fund must primarily be governed by the law. The quite clear direction of the law is that the most important partners, at least as we know, have been hospital network development plan bodies. But I consider it prospectively very important that the so-called "choice partners," who are outside the development plan of the hospital network, can clearly improve and increase their role in Estonian health care. This may mean that we should also look at whether these criteria have been justified during the next discussions. However, according to your current knowledge, the Health Insurance Fund in the Council cannot say that there would have been some very drastic change in the availability and quality of healthcare.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U150	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U151	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. The talk has been about investments in the towns of Võru and Tartu. In the months that you have been a minister, do you have any idea where you, as a minister, would like to channel the money that will come from the European Union next year to invest in health care?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U152	Thank you, Honourable Asker. Yeah, I'm sure I know where that money could go and should go. This knowledge is not only the Minister, but it is actually the State. On the basis of the plans that we have presented to the European Union and which were the basis for obtaining money, today it can be said that this work has taken place in Estonia on the basis of a certain principle. The first round involved the fact that the representatives of the Ministry visited all counties, made clear the wishes of the counties and became familiar with the logistical location of the institutions. I've been to several counties too, last week I went to Ida-Virumaa, then I was in Jõgeva County. I'm a little worried that the preparation or the desire is a little different. The most important way to invest in a health centre is if the local community and family doctors agree that they want to work on the health centre principle. In the first phase, the strategic view of the state is minimally linked, not to the first stage up to 2020, but to the first stage of the same period, to the construction of so-called new types of health centres in all county centres, which already offer the services mentioned above. Perhaps in order to create a holistic echelon at first level, it is necessary to employ a midwife, a physical therapist or new family sisters. County-centredness in our opinion means that health centres can and should be integrated with the hospitals in the county centres. If a patient goes from a family doctor to a specialist if necessary, we consider it necessary that, if that is possible and the arrangements have been made, these health care institutions should be located in one place. This does not preclude that a different location of institutions is agreed in some regions in order to provide the same service. According to the criteria, in smaller areas, the minimum requirement is three family doctors, and in larger areas eight family doctors. This model is primarily designed to reduce the pressure to go to a specialist. However, if this proves necessary and we are able to use a single'medical infrastructure' in the same region, be it even diagnostics, it would be well-reasoned and necessary in terms of health expenditure and rapid diagnosis.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U153	Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U154	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I'm going to look at this a little bit wider. Does this whole reform also involve thinking about how people in the remote area can get a service? In small places, special medical treatment places are lost. Regional policy, as does not provide for the possibility that a person can go to a doctor in Tartu or Jõgeva, even though visits to a specialist are closed in Mustvee. How do you solve this problem so people can still get to a doctor?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U155	Thank you, Honourable Asker. In fact, this scheme provides for investment grants not only to the county centres but also to smaller locations. If we look at the location of family doctors across Estonia, we can certainly say that some of the investments go to smaller places. The second part of your question related to the availability of specialised medical care in the country. Looking at the structure of the Estonian population and its location, it is a fact that the admission of specialised doctors can change and move from one region to another. However, if we look at the basic perspective, the Health Insurance Fund is also working on the basis of the changes that have taken place in the population in order to determine minimum standards for the physical location of receptions by specialist doctors by specialty. They also relate to the frequency with which one or another specialist is visited, the age and other characteristics of the population, etc. But when I visited Alatskivi in Jõgeva County, for example, it was clearly requested that there be a family doctor's center. The municipalities are currently preparing for this in cooperation. Certainly, the key word is also the desire and capacity of local authorities to agree with each other. This question, concerning the use of public transport, should certainly have been addressed to the previous minister who appeared on this platform. But, for example, the local authorities in Jõgeva County, whom I met, have thought further. In part, they already offer their good rural municipality residents the opportunity to visit a specialist and arrange additional transportation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U156	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U157	We will go to the ninth inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu Marika Tuus-Laul, Heimar Lenk, Valeri Korb, Enn Eesmaa, Eldar Efendiev, Viktor Vassiliev, Urbo Vaarmann and Kalev Kallo on 5 June 2014. The question is about the order of the treatment to be followed by a specialist. Urmas Kruuse, Minister of Health and Labour, will answer the question. I ask Marika Tuus-Laul, the representative of the speakers of the chair, to introduce her questioning!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U158	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Exactly the same question about the order of specialised medical assistance I submitted exactly a year ago, at the first autumn session, as the Minister of Social Affairs at the time, the current Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, from the Riigikogu's desk, replied. But the situation has not improved, things have even gotten worse, and today we ask you to understand, Mr. Kruuse. We are asking for more focus on the problem of why the so-called queues are still being practiced, even though several ministers have allowed this issue to be dealt with repeatedly. In most cases, the patient finds himself in a situation where it is not possible to put himself on the waiting list when calling the hospital's office, but is told to call him back after a while. People call until the phone keys are worn out, but they can't register. If reception times ever reach the reception desk, they will be distributed in a 'half hour'. At the same time, the Minister's regulation provides that the patient must register the queue at the first address. Taavi Kõivas promised to solve this issue, but the situation has gotten worse, as has already been said. We ask why people have to call back many times, and most of the time they get long noses. Second, if the order of treatment can last up to six and a half months, or six weeks, why is it not observed? For example, there is a 120-day sequence of nose-throat ear doctor in PERH (these are recent data), and a 130-day waiting for a cardiologist at Paide Hospital, etc. Why, then, is there no monitoring of these issues? The Health Board and the Health Insurance Fund are obliged to do so, and you, Mr Minister, as chairman of the Health Insurance Board, should be able to answer that question. We ask why the existence of queues is still covered by the fact that people are not simply queued. If there is a regulation that the patient must register immediately, but that is not to be done, I would remind you that there are contractual penalties and may also terminate the contract. I also point out that Taavi Kõivas promised to do all of this, but he didn't. As things have constantly gotten worse and people do not get to the doctor, as the study shows, I think that this question may even turn out to be one of the key issues of the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U159	Thank you. I ask Urmas Kruuse, Minister of Health and Labour of the Riigikogu, to answer his questioning!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U160	Mr President, thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner! Indeed, this inquiry is linked to possible treatment queues in Estonian health care. General medical care lays down certain rules governing access to medical care. Perhaps quite one hundred percent cannot agree with the arguments of a good questioner, which he put forward in the light of the examples given about PERH and other health institutions. These were extreme examples of what the sickness fund is doing. But there are, for example, only three, five or seven-day queues. General medical care has a waiting period for family doctors by order of the Minister of Social Affairs. According to the instructions, general medical care should be provided to patients with acute illness on the day of the referral and, in other cases, within five working days. In specialist medical care, the maximum length of the queue is fixed by the decision of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Council of 11 January 2013, according to which the waiting period must not exceed six weeks. We analysed why in some cases treatment queues are longer in one institution or another. The reasons are completely different and these differences are due to a number of factors. One part of the queues has arisen because people want to go to a certain health facility and certain health establishments are therefore overburdened. By using the service of another competent institution, a person would receive treatment more quickly. At the same time, we also know that the maximum length of dental queues for the various types of scheduled treatment, such as surgery and care, and for insured persons under 19 years of age, is provided separately. So this regulation exists. The other part of the case relates to the registration at the reception. The current system, I am just talking about the current system, because clear prospective decisions are coming up with the fact that 10 to 15% of patients who register for a specialist are not actually coming in. Nor is there a very good system of non-emergence reporting which would provide additional savings. If we generally look at how the health insurance fund finances special medicine, it must be admitted that the provision of medical treatment in specialist medical care has actually increased. This has taken place on the basis of the possibilities of our budget, i.e. more social tax. If we compare, for example, with the same period last year, the specific amount that has gone to specialist medicine has increased by EUR 19 million, which is not a small amount of money, given the volume of treatment. At the same time, the number of treatments for the same specialist care has increased by nearly 23,000. So when we talk about the order of treatment, in almost half of the cases, the situation remains very clearly within the framework of the law, but in some cases there may be anomalies. When it comes to patient choice, the length of the treatment order in some places is also linked to the fact that a particular profession does not have the possibility to employ a larger number of doctors in this hospital. On the one hand, it is linked to the contract volume of the sickness fund, i.e. the cash flow, on the other hand, to the fact that it is simply not possible to find a doctor there. This does not always mean that these circumstances are one-to-one-on-one, that money is as if there is, but the doctor is not, or vice versa. These are actually complex problems. If you look at the first quarter of 2014 and talk about the primary outpatient visits of hospitals in the Hospital Network Development Plan, the requirement of up to 42 calendar days was clearly met in 75% of these institutions. At the same time, if we look at the share of receptions with very short waiting times of up to seven calendar days, it was 36% in the first quarter of this year. In fact, there is no way to say that universal access to medical care has been reduced. But we're gonna need extra amps to trigger a change. One part of them is on our desk, and we'll continue to develop them. Their impact will certainly be tangible over the next few years. Indeed, when we are talking about the development of the health centre system, it is not only about building beautiful houses in different areas of Estonia, but also about one very important issue, namely the family medical system and its capacity. In order to avoid unjustified visits to a specialist, the funding of this system needs to be increased and the environment improved. In this respect, we are not unique in Estonia, nor is the experience of the rest of the world suggesting that if the number of visits to a specialist is smaller without reason, then the availability of medical care is actually better. We will then open up more opportunities for those people who need more help. Although it must be acknowledged that in the current system, aid is actually granted faster than the State has introduced in cases where emergency assistance is needed. However, this does not preclude that there may occasionally be cases where someone is caught between the gears of the system. We are monitoring the availability of health services and the implementation of contracts, but it is certain that we should be more flexible in future, precisely as regards restructuring between disciplines and by type of treatment. I said before, and the statistics also show that there are short queues in some places, longer ones in others. We need to improve the overall credibility as a whole. This does not mean that those institutions providing specialist medical care with shorter queues are less reliable in terms of substance, but people are relatively stable in their behaviour and habits. The current system does not make it possible to find out where to see a doctor more quickly, very clearly and quickly. Of course, if we take off even the website of the Health Insurance Fund and look at the queues for specialised doctors in different hospitals, we might find out. The digital registration office, which will be operational in the coming years, opens up exactly this possibility: if a patient wishes to receive one or the other specialist doctor's service, he will, by opening the system, see very clearly and quickly where the queues are short, and he will have a better choice. But in the long run, it would certainly make sense if we could objectively re-allocation resources in terms of treatment order. It will certainly improve these opportunities by further developing e-consultation. We have to admit that the e-consultation is not well launched, despite the fact that new professions have increased. However, one of the issues we need to discuss in the Council of the Health Insurance Fund in the near future is how much this service costs the health care provider and whether it is reasonable for him to offer e-consultations, regardless of whether the patient needs it. Some pilot projects, such as those carried out at the North Estonian Regional Hospital, have shown that there is a future for e-consultation and there is a need for it. In particular, if the patient is able to consult before the first visit, the number of possible "revisits' or visits at all per case of treatment may be reduced. This does not mean that the service offered to him in this way is of less quality. When it comes to whether the Estonian Health Insurance Fund considers shortening treatment queues to be a priority and whether the system is currently transparent or not, it was indicated here that Mr Rõivas has promised to intervene in order for the regulation to be complied with, then the Health Insurance Fund has examined all these cases separately and this check will continue in cooperation with the Health Board. We see that healthcare providers are willing to cooperate on what depends on them. The organisation of the health care establishment, for example, depends on them. That is why I am positive about this. This does not mean that, objectively, service queues can be reduced to zero on average, but they can certainly be shortened and dealt with in an optimal way. The optimal key means that if we are able to do the right thing and the right thing in the system and to use the service of all doctors at the most necessary and appropriate moment, we will have opportunities beyond those offered by the extra money that the Health Insurance Fund places in specialised medicine. But the overall trend is known in our country as well as elsewhere in Europe: because of the ageing population, health services are growing. On one issue, it was pointed out that family doctors and specialised doctors do not work together. Interested whether this situation could be improved. I certainly cannot accept that there is no cooperation. We have enough positive experience of how urgent and more difficult cases have been dealt with and how family doctors, together with specialist doctors, have found solutions for rapid diagnosis and then for starting treatment. It is certain that the family medical system and the specialist medical system can be further developed. I will bring, for example, open lists or non-chartered and forward lists. I'm sure you noticed a case when a mother described how she wanted to go to an ophthalmologist with her schooling child. He thought the waiting time was too long, but the case could have been solved by a family doctor. Not all primary needs may be solved by a specialist doctor. I am convinced that this cooperation needs to be improved and that e-consultation will certainly also provide opportunities for this in the future. No change can and must be seen as being absolutely separate, but must act together to improve the system. I already mentioned the digital registration once. If you ask if we have moved forward, it has been said that we have not done anything, then you can mention the e-mails that the current task is being erected. They are also an important foundation for starting a digital registration office. A possible solution will be introduced by 2016 and, at the same time, a digital registration office will be developed from its operational principle. When the digital registration office becomes operational, the ideal picture will enable you to navigate in this logistics and find a suitable time and place to get the service. Detailed analyses will be carried out to launch the system, and this system will be implemented as a joint work between the eHealth Foundation and the Health Insurance Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U161	Thank you. You have at least one question. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U162	Thank you. Good minister! In fact, everything is old-fashioned, yet people are not registered at the first address, I have personally tried it. I really am interested in why the self-regulation is not being complied with. Why isn't it verified? Why is the regulation still not being enforced, and why are waiting lists not put in place so that the person is queued and the hospital lets you know when he will be able to attend the treatment? There's been a lot of talk about it, and Taavi's outfit suggested it. But it's all unsolved right now, everything's standing, it's going back.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U163	Thank you. I don't know about your case, but I was referring to the fact that the lists have to be open for three or four months, depending on whether they are broadcast or non-chartered specialties, and it can be said that most institutions comply with this requirement. This does not preclude that, in some cases, this so-called service will simply be quickly filled in at a particular healthcare facility, but there are still patients who would like to receive it in this particular healthcare facility. The Health Insurance Board discusses and analyses the system of how a person can choose another health care provider faster and more easily in order to receive the service from a place where the queue is shorter. Indeed, if you want to receive this service in a particular institution, you may have to wait longer because there may be a longer queue for the same specialist care in some places, although it is shorter in another place. At the moment, however, the patient does not have a convenient alternative to choose, although this information is available on the website of the Health Insurance Fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U164	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U165	Thank you. Mr. Minister! No one blames your subordinates for doing little work. I know how they work at the Ministry. Your subordinates sit at meetings for hours, show each other colorful PowerPoint slides and print papers. Work keeps on boiling. The other thing is whether it's good for anyone. Those queues are as prescribed. The person calls the reception, they say there are no times, and that's it. It doesn't go anywhere, so the length of the queues can be fully compliant. You're trying to accuse patients that 101⁄2 percent of them are signing up, but they're not coming. Stretch the line even longer, then leave the parties out of it, because they either get better or die first. You know, you're not a ministerial official right now, you're a minister. Take responsibility and tell me when the queues will shorten to the specialist!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U166	Thank you. I wouldn't take the honor of blaming the patients for not showing up. I admitted it was part of the problem. This can be avoided in the future if we are able to run both digital registration and additional systems. As a minister, I can say that some of the specialties have already reduced their queues, while others have also increased their queues. This depends very much on which health care facility the service is provided. The free movement of patients will certainly help to shorten the order of treatment. If we put this principle into practice, give patients more freedom to choose a health care facility and put in place a 'compensation system' that the honourable questioner is familiar with as a member of the Health Insurance Board, then as a minister, I am convinced that the queues will shorten, because we will get more air out of them and remove other obstacles.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U167	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U168	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I understand from your speech that we have a triangle-shaped system: a sick person, cash flow and doctors. I've been talking to my benchmate about the same thing for the last few years. In my opinion, the decision to break this system is up to you, something should be done to make it work differently. But I read an article today that wrote about doctors in one of the corners of this triangle. It was about the doctors who came to us from third countries. I want to know what you think. How do you assess their contribution to shortening the queues and improving the quality of medicine?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U169	Thank you. If the honourable questioner indicates that the Estonian Medical Association has said that they are not sure whether the competence of doctors from third countries has been verified, then as a minister, I can say that no information has been received on my desk to make sure that nothing bad has happened to any patient due to the work of these doctors. However, I do know that some doctors who have treated people in Ida-Virumaa, for example, will soon arrive at work in Tallinn. We are conducting an audit in the interests of clarity and public interest to see whether this problem is true as it has been put forward in the press. If you ask me about my position on the wider health care system and about the doctors who come from elsewhere to work in Estonia, I am convinced that it is in the interests of both our patients and the quality of health care that people from outside our health care system who have not studied at the University of Tartu will also come here. I think this is a completely natural and necessary process. I agree that the system must be clear and understandable and that the competence of these doctors should be comparable to that of doctors who are already working. I do not very well imagine, either pragmatically or evolutionaryly, that we could create a system where only doctors, drivers or engineers who have studied in Estonia would work. When we talk about the quality and development of the system as a whole, it is just as natural a process when some of our health care people go to work in Finland, some of the Finnish doctors go to work in Sweden, etc. This is actually important in the interests of the whole system and of the patient. Therefore, my personal view is that we must ensure quality control so that doctors from outside Estonia can come here. They should know that they are welcome here, especially doctors of disciplines that we themselves do not have enough for objective or non-objective reasons.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U170	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Riigikogu speech chair Marika Tuus-Lauli, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U171	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We did get an answer, but we couldn't figure out the solution to the problem. How can it still be said that these problems seem to be coming to an end? Let me give you another example. For example, Pärnu Hospital has 97 days to see a cardiologist, 61 days in PERH, 130 days in Järvamaa Hospital, i.e. more than four months to see a heart doctor. We know that the first cause of death in Estonia is cardiovascular disease. We may ask if this patient really is still alive at the time of the reception. The reception of a neurologist at the North Estonian Regional Hospital is expected for 140 days, i.e. almost five months. For a nose, ear and throat doctor there is a queue of 122 days in PERH, for an internal doctor in Tartu 70 days. What do these waiting lists mean for patients who are suspected of cancer? Imagine this situation! So these problems have not actually been dealt with. According to a survey commissioned by the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Estonian Health Insurance Fund in spring, over half of the population considered access to health care poor. Yeah, they're happy with the quality of medical care, but people don't get to the doctor. We have been hearing from ministers for years the same reasoning about queues. First of all, the queues are long because people want to go to a particular doctor. But it couldn't be any other way! A person still wants to see a doctor who knows his medical history, that's perfectly natural. Secondly, it has been stressed over the years that people are not coming to the reception. It could also be repaired. If the queue is three or four months, the hospital person can be reminded that his appointment will be in a few days. It's part of what they do. So these aren't the reasons why people have to wait for months. We know that if we wait this long, the disease will get worse, and the treatment will eventually become much more expensive. Of course, these problems are bigger in major hospitals, and smaller hospitals have fewer problems. I'll give you the example that in Jõgeva Hospital, it really is that if you call, you can go to the doctor immediately, or at least an appointment is made for you. We believe that the Ministry has not been able to resolve these issues for years, that patients have to make several and several calls and spend their nerves. Taavi Rõivas said at the beginning of the year that as there is a trickle with queues, they take a much stricter stance, as health care institutions across Estonia do not comply with a regulation that obliges them to register the queue at the first call. However, I do not see anything being done by now. Ministers will change, problems will be put in the drawer and people will simply be driven over by tractor. The same study you ordered confirmed that one in three people has come into a situation where he has not been able to put himself in line, so he could only do it from a certain date. The research firm Saar Poll has also said that this is an alarm situation. You know that's what this study said. Yes, Tanel Ross, Chairman of the Management Board of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, has said that there is a new procedure for this year: in specialties where a referral letter is required, queues must be open for four months and overtime is also paid with a higher coefficient. But we still don't see the results, actually, the queues are even longer. I recall a case from a couple of years ago when the Patient Representative Association turned to the President of the Republic on this matter. At that point, there were 240,000 people in line. Imagine how many of these people had to call to get in line at all. So why don't you ask me what kind of secret place this is, where these reception times come from one day at the reception desk? Patients don't understand. But I wouldn't blame health institutions that much. The causes of the problems are unknown. The amount of contracts awarded by the Health Insurance Fund does not cover the volume of services, there is a shortage of doctors, etc. At the same time, the new chairman of the board of the Health Insurance Fund has been at work for about four years, but the results are not visible. It's the same problem all the time. I would like to remind you that for the last few years in the Riigikogu, i.e. eight years, the social ministers have come from the Reform Party: Maret Maripuu, Hanno Pevkur, Taavi Rõivas, now Mr Kruuse. They have all allowed decisive action on queues and queues. But things have gotten worse. And I don't know where they are. Come on, help me with this! It can't go on like this! I beg you, Mr Kruuse, to deal with this matter. We repeatedly ask questions about this issue, we will continue to ask them in briefings, conducting questions, etc. This situation has to be resolved. It can't go on like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U172	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-08_U173	Good fellows! Anyone who wishes to register for a free microphone, please do so after the hammer hit! There's no call. Today's trial is over. I wish you strength in your work! Closure of the sitting at 19.33 p.m.
