ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-23_U1	Good fellows, good morning. We will begin the second Thursday session of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask the members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over the drafts and questions. There are no requests. Good colleagues, we're now conducting a presence check. 62 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 39. Dear colleagues, during the debate on today's item on the agenda, Rein Lang, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, will make a presentation on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and Marko Pomerants, Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, will make a presentation on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-23_U2	We will discuss the first item on today's agenda. Dear colleagues, I say so much that according to our Rules of Procedure, a member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to each of the rapporteurs and all three rapporteurs have up to 20 minutes to report. I ask Chancellor of Justice Indrek Tederi to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu! This is the Chancellor of Justice's proposal No 24 on freedom of movement and the possibility of communication with other arrested persons (§ 90 (3) (1) and (5) of the Prisons Act). Please, Mr. Teder!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-23_U3	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Parliament! I've sent you my proposal number 24. This concerns the contradiction of a few provisions of the Prisons Act with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. In my opinion, they unduly and without discretion restrict the fundamental right of those arrested to communicate with other arrested persons. I have explained my opinion in detail in the proposal. In fact, the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia guarantees us all certain fundamental rights, including the right to communicate with other people. The right to communicate is linked to the right to privacy enshrined in § 26 of the Constitution and also to the right to free self-realization provided for in § 19 (1). All persons have fundamental rights unless they are restricted in accordance with the Constitution. Fundamental rights are also for those who have been deprived of their liberty because of a conviction, as well as fundamental rights for those who are in remand while awaiting judgment. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that my proposal No 24 concerns those arrested, i.e. persons who have not been the subject of a conviction and who may not be the subject of a conviction. According to § 22 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, no one must be considered guilty of a criminal offence until a conviction has entered into force. The less the state has the power to treat the arrested person more harshly than a convicted criminal without the urgent need. The first sentence of § 90 (3) of the Prisons Act obliges the prison service to keep everyone arrested in a locked chamber 24 hours a day. Paragraph 90 (5) of the Prisons Act obliges the prison services to rule out the interaction between those arrested in different chambers. Convicts, on the other hand, can travel freely in their living department and communicate with detainees in the same department at least four hours a day, usually more. I believe that the object of the contested provisions is, in particular, to exclude undue interference with criminal proceedings. This reason also leads to the need to restrict the right to privacy and free self-realization, which a person uses, among other things, when communicating with others. Any other reasoning would also be appropriate for convicted persons and in such cases the sentenced should be kept in the same conditions as those of the arrested. Both contested provisions have been formulated by the legislator in such a way that no discretion is foreseen. They must be applied to all those arrested. This is not a pseudo-problem. In Estonia, it happens that the person is in custody for a year or even several years. The contested provisions force such a arrested person to stay all day without meaningful action between the four walls. If there is virtually no need for such isolation, this is a violation of the fundamental rights of a person, which may also constitute the degrading treatment prohibited by § 18 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. I have therefore come to the conclusion that the first sentence and paragraph 5 of § 90 (3) of the Prisons Act are not in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and need to be amended. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-23_U4	Thank you, Chancellor. There's a question for you too. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-23_U5	Thank you. Mr. Chancellor of Justice! I fully agree that a arrested person who has not yet been convicted and may not be convicted should have a right of communication. At least there could be a margin of discretion in this case. However, a lot of questions arose in the Commission in relation to another problem which is not directly related to this proposal. Very many people wondered why the Chancellor of Justice had not dealt with the question of how long a person could be kept under investigation. There are cases where this has been going on for even five years. This is a very important issue. Can you give me any advice? You said it was the court's decisions, but the courts are by law. Maybe we could reschedule something?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-23_U6	Yes, arrest violates the fundamental rights of a person very strongly. I mean, it's people who haven't been convicted. Therefore, detention should only last as long as is strictly necessary. I am sure that the power of the state must act to keep detention periods as short as possible. I've requested data from the Justice Department. The average duration of arrest, the so-called median in pre-trial proceedings, was 132.5 days, or 4.3 months, and the arithmetic mean was 123 days, or 4 months. It is very difficult to answer whether or not everyone has responded to the Constitution. It is difficult to say this as an ombudsman for a particular case, and it is quite difficult to take a position as to whether there should be a certain maximum time during which a person may be held in custody. Criminal cases and their maximum possible speed are very different. Ideally, the current regulation, which provides for regular monitoring of the grounds for detention, should also be able to prevent people from being detained unduly long. I stress that it is rather difficult for me, as Chancellor of Justice, to assess the merits of detention. This is the result of § 25 (2) of the Chancellor of Justice Act, which prohibits the review of judgments. However, I can analyse the specific law as to whether it complies with the Constitution or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-23_U7	Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-23_U8	Thank you, Mr President. Your Honor, Chancellor! It is clear that the law currently in force does not provide for any discretion in this case. You've analyzed this whole situation as Chancellor of Justice. Can you tell us how far it would be to plan changes so that the restrictions on the freedom of communication of those arrested could be brought into line with the Constitution? There may be some limitations in the criminal investigation, but how far can they go?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-23_U9	Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-23_U10	Really, I've analyzed it. Some people have been arrested for almost five years. The initial principle could be that there is a margin of discretion in determining the limits. But in general, I think it should all be more the Ministry of Justice to consider, that's his job. However, the honourable Parliament may also regulate it somehow.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-23_U11	Thank you, Mr President. Your Honor, Chancellor! I have a question about this situation: a person has been detained for 48 hours, but this has obviously been done to put pressure on him, and it is also foreseen that the court will not prolong it. Do you think it's legitimate that the police are still implementing it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-23_U12	That's a little different. I should analyze it separately.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-23_U13	Thank you, Chancellor of Justice. No further questions. I now ask Rein Lang, member of the Constitutional Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-23_U14	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry about my little grunting voice! My task is to give you an overview of the debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the Chancellor of Justice's proposal No 24. The Commission discussed the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice at its regular meeting on Monday 20 January. The Chancellor of Justice, Indrek Teder, specifically stressed to the Commission that his proposal concerns those arrested, i.e. persons who have not been convicted. As is well known, according to § 22 of the Constitution, no one must be considered guilty of a criminal offence until a conviction has entered into force. There is currently a paradoxical situation in which §90 (3) and (5) of the Prisons Act lay down stricter requirements for the detention of arrested persons than for the detention of convicted persons. The Chancellor of Justice gave an example that the person arrested must spend 23 hours in his/her chamber and can move for one hour a day, while the sentenced person may move for at least four hours a day. The chairman of the commission, Rait Maruste, asked whether the Chancellor of Justice could see any further contradictions with the Constitution in the regulation of the Prison Act, after which the Chancellor of Justice replied that he had also referred to the contradiction of the law with §es 11 and 26 of the Constitution. Counsellor of the Chancellor of Justice, Indrek-Ivar Määerts, added that the restrictions laid down in the Prisons Act are certainly necessary in certain cases. The purpose of these restrictions is to prevent arrested persons from being able to intervene illegally in criminal proceedings and, for example, to agree between themselves on what to say to the defendant. In certain cases, it may be entirely justified to apply a stricter regime to the arrestee than to other detainees. But for all those arrested, and there is not always such a need. In the case of some of the arrested persons, there is no reason to believe that they will have an impact on criminal proceedings due to the criminal offence committed, the circumstances of the subject matter of proof or the stage of the proceedings. For example, the dispute has already reached the level of cassation. Under the current regulation, all arrested persons must be kept under the same conditions, since no discretion is foreseen. The chairman of the commission, Rait Maruste, stated that there were three problems before us. First of all, the conviction of the person arrested is still being sought, so the arrestee should in theory be easier than the regime applied to the sentenced person as a regime applied to the formally innocent person. Secondly, the privacy of those arrested, such as contacting loved ones, is quite disturbed. And thirdly, the regime should not be monopolistic, but in line with the stage of proceedings, the identity of the arrested person and the type of crime, in order to allow greater flexibility in the implementation of the restrictions. The speaker here also noted in the Commission that the Chancellor of Justice's proposal was entirely appropriate. The current Penalty Act was drafted on the basis of the assumption that the law must be quite simple, as the Penal Code is also aimed at the implementer, i.e. the prison service, and the ability of prison staff to personally approach the rights of detainees was rather mediocre seven or eight years ago. To date, the capacity of the prison service has improved dramatically. If someone has been arrested for six months on suspicion of a serious crime and initial procedural procedures have been carried out, there is no point in closing the person concerned in the chamber all day. Therefore, discretion should certainly exist and regulation could be improved accordingly. The Ministry of Justice also agrees with this approach in principle, and the Minister of Justice has a number of ideas about what could be raised on the table in the course of improving the law. The Commission could also agree with the Chancellor of Justice's proposal to bring the detention law into line with the Constitution. The same idea was supported by Commissioner Väino Linde, but he felt that the proposals of the Chancellor of Justice could be more specific and clearer in the future, so that the members of the Commission could examine each page of the proposal in greater detail. Chancellor of Justice, Indrek Teder, fully agreed. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also discussed whether the specific detention regime applicable to the arrested person should be decided by a prosecutor or a judge. The Chancellor of Justice thinks it should be the prosecutor. The same view was taken by advisor Indrek-Ivar Määurts, as the prosecutor is already deciding on extra-jail communication, which is essentially equivalent. Rait Maruste said that if a judge were to give permission to hold a person in custody, for example, for two weeks and, according to the circumstances, extends that period, the judge should also assess each time what steps have been taken in criminal investigations and what restrictions would need to be applied to the person arrested. This is a restriction of fundamental rights. It doesn't seem right to give this decision to the prosecutor because the prosecutor has the interests of the prosecution. In order to ensure that these interests are under certain control, a court may decide, on a proposal from the prosecutor of the regime applicable to the person arrested, if, for example, it extends the period of detention of the person. Deniss Borodich felt that the right to propose to change the restrictions should certainly be reserved to a lawyer in addition to the prosecutor. The chairman of the committee considered that a representative of the Commission could also indicate in the plenary report who should decide on the limits to be applied. This would require a change of current practice whereby the judge immediately authorises the person to be held in custody for up to six months. And so I say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that I believe that the decision-maker of the detention regime of the arrested person should be a court. With the consent of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I would also like to challenge here and now the current practice, according to which judges will immediately satisfy all the prosecutor's proposals to arrest a person for a period of six months. In addition to being an unjustified restriction on the fundamental rights of individuals, it does not make sense from an economic point of view. This problem should certainly be analysed and the necessary amendments made to the law should be made. What did the Committee on Constitutional Affairs decide? It was decided to accept the Chancellor of Justice's proposal No 24. Secondly, it was decided by consensus to appoint Rein Lang, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as rapporteur. On behalf of myself and the entire Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I wish both the Ministry of Justice and the Committee on Legal Affairs of the Riigikogu the strength to implement this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-23_U15	Thank you! There's a question for you too. Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-23_U16	Thank you, Mr President. My question may remain a little outside what has been said in the Commission, but it certainly concerns this point. The Chancellor of Justice has criticised two important provisions, which are the first sentence and paragraph 5 of § 90 (3) of the Prisons Act. Paragraph 3 has long been in prison law; it dates back to the time when prisons were less able to guarantee the constitutional treatment of those arrested. Paragraph 5 comes from 2009 when you were the Minister of Justice. Perhaps you will remember why this constitutional provision was introduced in 2009 and what do you now think of paragraph 5?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-23_U17	The honest answer is, you don't remember. This is one small detail and this issue did not come up on the agenda in the Commission. The question is, in many respects, how to interpret this paragraph 90 (5) either literally or to take other interpretation methods into an arsenal.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-23_U18	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Please present the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Legal Affairs Committee Marko Pomerantsi!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-23_U19	Good afternoon, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, After two reports you've already listened to, I don't have much to add. The people who took part in the debate on the Committee on Legal Affairs are, of course, a little different, that is understandable. At our meeting on 20 January, Chancellor of Justice Indrek Teder presented his proposal personally, and Indrek-Ivar Määerts from his office was also present. Everyone who is in the Chamber has already heard the proposal, and everyone who examines the verbatim will get an overview of the substance when they read what has been said here today by Indrek Teder and our colleague Rein Lang. Our debate was broadly the same. In the Committee on Legal Affairs, there was also the issue of time limits for arrest in this particular case. I can inform you that after the Ministry of Justice has done a great deal of work on the draft Penal Code, and this code has reached our treatment next week, we are planning a first reading, the Ministry has taken up the next job that started over a year ago when the Minister of Justice was still Kristen Michal. This is a debate on the problems of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Definitely time limits for arrests, arresters and even arrests are the subject of this debate, so it will probably be dealt with separately. But every shoemaker has to stick to his own grid. A little bit more, maybe. Mr Lang said that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed who should be the subject of the restrictions, either the court or the prosecutor. I think that if this first sentence of subsection 90 (3) or paragraph 5 of the Prisons Act were to be dimmed, it is also reasonable to look at § 1431 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which sets out additional restrictions applicable to a person with an exemption restriction. It states that these restrictions may be imposed by a court or a public prosecutor's office, and there is also a list of certain restrictions. This section would probably provide for a more precise limitation of certain rights. As you already know, as a result of the debate, the Committee on Legal Affairs reached the same conclusion as the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and accepted the Chancellor of Justice's proposal. Time will discuss how we will realise this proposal and make a constitutional amendment to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-23_U20	Thank you, good waitress. You have at least one question. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-23_U21	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, As far as I am aware, there has been at least one case before the Strasbourg Human Rights Court that comes from Estonia and relates to violations of human rights in the event of arrest. Could your committee take an interest in the justification of this matter pending in Strasbourg and in the answer given by the Strasbourg Court? How did the court justify his taking this case into consideration? This could probably be useful in your work if you are going to improve the legal provisions. Are you counting on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-23_U22	Thanks! I understand you have a clear picture of what we're talking about. We can talk to you about this and discuss how it can contribute to our work.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-23_U23	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-23_U24	Dear waitress, You said time would be discussed. But what is your Commission practice in cases where the Commission accepts the Chancellor of Justice's proposal? Do you in the Commission prepare a legislative amendment or do you expect it to come from the Ministry of Justice?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-23_U25	The options may be different. But surely the law should be amended in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, which makes good sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-23_U26	Good waitress, thank you. No further questions. Do members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. We can go to the preparation of the vote on the proposal by the Chancellor of Justice. Dear colleagues, I will put the Chancellor of Justice's proposal to the vote. Who is in favour of the Chancellor of Justice's proposal? Please take a stand and vote. 63 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The Chancellor of Justice's proposal was supported. As the Riigikogu supported the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice, I hereby instruct the Riigikogu's Legal Committee, pursuant to § 152 of the Rules of Procedure and Home Act, to initiate a draft to bring the Prisoning Act into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. Dear colleagues, our only item on the agenda is closed and today's session is also closed. I thank you and wish you the strength of your work! Closure of the sitting at 10.30 a.m.
