ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U1	Dear fellow Members, Honourable Riigikogu! Good morning. We will begin the session of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu on the 18th working week on Thursday. I ask for silence, good fellows!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U2	I ask Ms Malle Seppiku, a member of the Riigikogu for a speech chair to listen to her vows of office. Please, Mrs Seppik!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U3	Dear Riigikogu! I pledge to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. I pledge to exercise justice according to my conscience in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Estonia. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U4	Now anyone who wishes to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U5	Ladies and gentlemen, We have an inquiry to make to our Prime Minister, who has allowed himself, in recent weeks, rather unsuccessful statements. Because of such unsuccessful expressions, the Ukrainian Foreign Minister is currently being replaced. We have a slightly smaller scale. In fact, the Prime Minister has said very poorly about Tallinn Television, calling it antisocial. The Prime Minister's Press Office has refused to grant accreditation to the press conferences and other events of the government of Tallinn Television. This has attracted a great deal of attention in the press. Press lecturers at the University of Tartu and our media experts have spoken, who see that the official television channel is not accredited to a government institution, the birth of a political censorship in Estonia. And that's a very dangerous sign. That's why we're inviting the Prime Minister to this chair so he can tell us why he's using these expressions, how he can afford it, and whether he's going to talk like that in the future. Thank you for listening to me!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U6	Thank you! There's no more calls. I have accepted an inquiry on behalf of the Bureau. According to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Bureau will decide on its further procedure. Good colleagues, we're conducting a presence check. 80 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 21.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U7	Let's go to today's agenda. What happened was that yesterday we were in the middle of a debate on draft 692 when we examined the amendments. We have been able to look at the first six amendments, and we are now at the seventh proposal. Kaia Eva, please, a procedural question! It hasn't been long. [[Laughter in the hall, applause.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U8	Thank you. If he knew the reason for the ovation, it would be good. I have a procedural question. My groupmates pointed out that they wanted to start working hard, but we do not have a table on today's agenda. We would like the agenda for all the tables to begin today's session.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U9	Thank you. I can say so much that this new agenda can be viewed at the address Riigikogu.ee and you can also look at it on your display, which is on your desks. It is true that a new agenda has not yet been distributed on paper. This will be done in the course of the work, if it is acceptable to you. Are you protesting against my request? Thank you for not protesting! I ask the good officials of our hall to hand the agenda to the members of the Riigikogu on paper as soon as possible. Thank you. Let's go! We are at the seventh amendment of draft 692, which has been tabled by the commission. Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U10	Thank you. I'm trying to be correct. I have a motion to vote on this amendment on behalf of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, and we also want a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U11	Thank you. Excuse me, one second! Karel Knight, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U12	Thank you, Mr President. Good fellows! At 8.20 a.m., the history of the Riigikogu was made from 1 January 2015 with increasing child benefits. On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I would like to thank all my fellow Members who supported this draft, and, as a thank you, as is the case today, for our part, we are going to give you a big hug, a kiss and a little pail. [[Laughter in the hall. They're handing out Pai smoothie bottles.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U13	Sven Sester, what do you want? Excuse me, attention! Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U14	Thank you, Mr President. Since I understand that the first reading of the draft law on cohabitation has been completed and Karel Rüütel personally turned to us for a hug and a kiss, I would like to know at what point and where it is possible to get dear and kisses. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U15	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U16	My colleague Jüri Ratas has a procedural question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U17	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Since I chaired this sitting before you and we have a very important vote ahead of us, in order not to create a constitutional crisis, at least because of this element, I would like to ask you. Before the break, Sven Sester asked a question to a member of the Riigikogu, Karel Rüütel, and I would like to make sure that this issue was resolved. Could you control it, precisely on the basis of the meaning and the provision of the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U18	I believe that I do not have the authority to control how this agreement between them ended. Please, Karel Knight!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U19	Thank you. I ask Sven Sester to come to the hall quickly! The girls are already waiting and handing over all the promised items.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U20	Please bring Sven Sester to that door yourself! I can't go after him right now. Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U21	Thank you, Mr President. There's a drink of unknown origin on my desk. I assume it's not something dangerous, it's a gift. According to the law, gifts received by a member of the Riigikogu must be registered in the Management Board of the Riigikogu. I ask the Riigikogu Board to register it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U22	Please submit a written application. Ladies and gentlemen, We are going to vote on the amendment. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the amendment tabled by the Committee on the Environment, which has been fully taken into account by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. 58 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, no one opposed, with 3 abstentions. The amendment was supported. Dear Riigikogu, we have examined all the amendments. As the proposal of the Group of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Association to interrupt the second reading of the draft 692 has been received on the Board of the Riigikogu, we must vote on it. Please, Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U23	On behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, before the vote, I ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U24	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U25	The break taken by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance has ended, and we shall proceed to the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union to interrupt the second reading of the draft Act on the application of the General Part of the Environmental Code Act 692. Please take a stand and vote. There were 9 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, 52 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The second reading of bill 692 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U26	Our next item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Road Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask for a presentation of the Chair of the Economic Commission for Europe, Kalle Palling!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U27	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Draft Act amending the Road Act 681 was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 2 June 2014. The main objective of the draft law is to increase the flexibility of the state budget by decoupling revenue from excise duties from the cost of financing road maintenance. The first reading of the draft was held in Riigikogu plenary on 10 June, and the debate was resumed on 11 June when the first reading was closed. The deadline for submitting amendments was set at 10 a.m. on 12 June. Amendments were received from the Group of the Prosemaa and Res Publica Union of the Riigikogu and the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, and the Association of Estonian Rural Governments also addressed the Economic Commission, who did not agree with the amendments proposed in the draft. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the amendments submitted to the Commission at its meeting on 12 June. Viljar Kirikal, Chief Specialist of the Department of Customs and Excise Policy of the Ministry of Finance, and Rando Kängsepp, Chief Specialist of the State Budget Department of the same Ministry, took part. The representatives of the Ministry said that the amendments tabled by the initiator of the draft do not support them, as they run counter to the objectives of the draft. The Commission voted through the amendments and decided not to include all the proposals. The draft has passed a technical correction in the verbatim and translation department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu and the language editor's comments have been taken into account in the final version of the text of the draft. Proposals No 1 just 21 are mutually exclusive. Amendments 1 to 20 are tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance, the Commission decided by a vote in favour of 3, against 8 and 1 abstention not to support them. In order to finance road maintenance, the proposals provided for expenditure in the state budget in an overall amount of 76 to 95% of the planned fuel excise duty. The proposals were not supported by the initiator's representatives as they conflict with the draft with the aim of increasing the flexibility of the state budget. Amendments 21 to 24 are tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. Proposals Nos 21, 22 and 24 are intended to restore the wording of § 16 of the current Act. Amendment 23 proposes that § 16 (3) of the current Act be supplemented in such a way that at least 10% of the amount distributed from the resulting excise duty on fuel to finance road maintenance through the state budget is allocated to the storage of local roads. The Commission decided, by a vote in favour of 4, against 8, not to support the proposals of the zero Centre Party Group. The proposals were not supported by the initiator's representatives as they conflict with the draft with the aim of increasing the flexibility of the state budget. The commission adopted the decision to send draft law amending the Road Act initiated by the Government of the Republic to the Riigikogu for second reading. a by 18 June, the proposal to terminate the second reading and, when the second reading is completed, to refer the draft to the third reading. 20 June 2008 and then put the draft law to a final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U28	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Andrus Island!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U29	Thank you, manager. Good Commission waitress! As you pointed out in your speech, the Municipalities' Association was not satisfied with this draft. And how could they be if the explanatory memorandum states that the law has an effect on local governments and the Road Administration who bear the cost of road maintenance. The Minister has also confirmed here that it will have a real effect, but next year's amount will remain the same, but it seems that the municipalities do not believe much of this story. Did you have any contact with the local government associations in the meantime? Did you exchange letters or get together? Did you inject confidence into the local governments that the government's money would not be reduced?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U30	Good questioner! No meetings took place and we can only give this assurance by confirming that both the Minister and the rapporteurs of the lead committee have promised that the funding of local roads will not be reduced. The aim of this draft is to make road funding more flexible, so that it is not always necessary to spend money every year.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U31	Thank you. Kaia Ival is a procedural question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U32	Thank you. I noticed that the speaker also spoke about the changes made by the Commission, but there are no amendments from the Commission to the material that I received at the back of the hall, at 681 SE. Did I get something wrong? He spoke of the changes made by the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U33	You really got it wrong. He said that all the proposals were made either by the Fatherland and Res Publica Union or by the Central Party Group. Let's go! Please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U34	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I'm coming back to the one Kaia was talking about. There are some corrections on this first page. Are these all the improvements that were incorporated into the new bill? Where can we still see what was changed from the previous one, and how exactly is the wording now? So far, the Riigikogu has been so that when technical or verbal corrections have been made, the draft second reading shows where and what has been corrected, where even a few commas have changed places. Why isn't there anything like this on the table today?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U35	A total of 24 amendments were received by the lead committee, but since none of them were supported by the Commission, not a single decimal has been moved. So 681 SE's second reading materials have all the exact wordings. They are in the same form as they were at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U36	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U37	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, The main objective, according to you, is flexible money planning. I'd say it's more of a lack of money. Where, then, will the 25 million money taken out of the road savings funds be flexibly put next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U38	In my opinion, it is in no way right to link this bill with the aim of taking 25 million away from somewhere. As has been said, the draft law proposes to make the funding for road safety more flexible, so that the need is taken into account. It is not possible to predict the exact amount of excise duty. In the meantime, the financing of road services is planned on the basis of an excise forecast, which has not allowed for stable financing of road services.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U39	Thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu in the right-hand corner! There's a pretty strong buzz. Please, if there is anything you want to discuss, make sure that this does not interfere with the discussion of the item on the agenda. Please, Thomas Tõniste!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U40	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! The amendments tabled by the IRL were also discussed by the Commission. If I understand correctly, Kaja Kallas stated there that these amendments must be treated as one proposal and can be put together. Very many Members of the Commission nodded that this was the case. What's the final score now? Why didn't the bill make it to the hall like this? Maybe you're explaining why it didn't go like the people that knew it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U41	Since the content of the amendments is such that they are still mutually exclusive, it was not possible to put them together. But I reassure you, you have the opportunity to put all these proposals to a separate vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U42	Thank you. Please, Peter Laurson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U43	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Local authorities have been struggling to repair local roads year after year. In recent years, this repair money came from fuel excise. Now the road money is being decoupled from the excise duty. How, though, can local authorities plan to maintain their roads if it is not until the end of the year that the state will determine the amount concerned in its budget? This time is too short. There was a certain order of magnitude before.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U44	For the last seven years, Minister of Economy Juhan Parts was your good party partner. If you're saying there's been a road problem for years, ask Juhan why they've been unsolved. But local roads are financed according to the road plan, as can be read in the explanatory memorandum of the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U45	Thank you. Please, Andrus Island, second question! Sorry, Andrus Saare, Kaia Ival is a procedural question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U46	Thank you, Mr President. We're still confused here. I know that we tabled 21 amendments on behalf of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union. If I remember correctly, I signed them myself. But now that I'm familiar with these materials, I didn't see any amendments from the Fatherland and Res Publica Union. These are all presented by the Group of the Patriotic Union and the Res Publica Alliance. As far as I know, we do not have such a group in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U47	You're probably talking about fingertips. I'm so sorry about this mistake. Let us consider these proposals made by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica. Thank you. Please, Andrus Island, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U48	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, I didn't quite understand the answer to my first question. You replied that with this change, you could act flexibly and not spend all your money. What does that mean, you don't have to spend all the money? Have the local authorities I asked about so far been overfunded that you now come to their aid and not force them to spend all their money? Or what does that mean?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U49	I was thinking of the current situation where excise duty receipts and the percentage of the amount that must go into the financing of roads are very strictly linked. Every year, there is an amount in the state budget that must definitely be spent on maintaining roads. That's exactly what I meant.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U50	Thank you. Please, Siim Kisler!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U51	Thank you. Good waitress! A few years ago, as we know, there was a situation where not all the money was spent, even though the law was formulated just as it is today. So it was possible not to spend everything. How does this time become more flexible than before? I still don't understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U52	This will become more flexible because the law will no longer contain a specific percentage of the excise duty that needs to be directed towards road maintenance. In the future, money will be channelled to the road management plan and to real needs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U53	Thank you. Please, Marko Pomerance!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U54	Thanks! Good colleague! Here's what I want to ask you. You're from a nice little town like the Claw, if I remember correctly. Do you and the parish elder of Käru have discussed all these things and you both understand that there are teas in the parish, that spending further money there is unreasonable, and that the central government could take away that money and spend it on some more sensible thing?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U55	My father has taught me the very simple truth that if there is no money, there is no money. That's the first thing. The cart, like many other Estonian municipalities, has not been allocated enough money for the last ten years. It is just that the sums that the state can spend on road maintenance are therefore too small. But in general, the roads around the Käru are in more or less satisfactory condition as elsewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U56	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U57	Thank you. In answer to my previous question, you said that you would be financed as needed. Is the state of the roads in Estonia so good that it will be an opportunity to withdraw 25 million euros from the road storage facilities next year? As a member of the Committee on Economic Affairs, do you confirm this?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U58	No, I cannot confirm in any way that the state of roads in Estonia is excellent.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U59	Thank you. Please, Thomas Tõniste, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U60	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Now I'm really confused. We have just heard from you that if there is no money, there is no money and that there has never been enough money and that there is a problem with roads. However, we have heard many times in this Chamber from ministers and officials in the Commission that there is so much money that it must be taken off the road. There has also been a statement that we have just heard here from ministers that the bill helps to save money and plan its use more wisely. So, what's the end of the line? I have so far understood from the ministers' speeches that money is being cut off from the road line because there has been too much, and now we are getting smarter and we are going to make better use of it. But you said now that there was never enough money.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U61	It was my personal assessment that money was never enough. If we look at Estonia's roads, they are not in a very good position in some regions. What's going to change, I've explained here many times. The use of money will become more flexible, with no more provision being made for a specific percentage of the annual amount of excise duty, which will certainly have to be directed towards road maintenance. It can be more flexible to invest according to the road plan. Being smarter is the right thing to do. It is not wise to over-dimension, seeing that the forecast of excise duty receipts makes it possible to spend quite large amounts. Your own good party associates have been fondly comparing many facilities with California in Estonia, for example, I would like to mention one object in Central Estonia. We certainly have shortcomings in the work of the Road Administration as well as in planning the use of money at all. The objects are really over-dimensioned. I believe that this bill will allow investments foreseen in the road safety plan to be made when it becomes a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U62	Please, Peter Laurson, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U63	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! So far, at least 10% of the amount of excise duties on fuel has been allocated to the municipalities to finance the storage of local roads. How much would the funding of local roads increase compared to the current model according to the road map?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U64	This particular percentage was not discussed in the draft proceedings. All I can say is that in the future, you will be funded according to the road plan, as foreseen in the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U65	Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U66	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I have never been able to participate in the debate on this very important bill before. But, Kalle, we are both responsible to the same voters in Harju and Raplamaa. Only recently did the seriously concerned voters in Rapla area come to me at a meeting to ask why the new government has reduced the funding of roads planned in Rapla county. What can you tell these voters right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U67	I cannot say in any way that compared to the previous seven years, for example, there is a reduction in road financing in Rapla or Harju County in the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U68	Thank you. Kaia Iva, your first question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U69	Thank you. Dear colleague Kalle, why are you eyeing people? We both know very well how things are. Regardless of how money gets into the budget, whether it gets there because a certain percentage is set, or because it gets there in a different way, based on calculations or a sense of gut, or whatever, if the money earmarked for an object is not spent by the end of the year, either because the procurement was cheaper than expected, or because there are disputes, the proposal can still be moved to the next year in a nice way. And it will be spent very well next year. So nothing changes in this respect. Playing flexibilities is just a way of reducing the road money right now. But my question is this: what do you think are the main points where more money should be spent on road maintenance in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U70	First of all, you know, blowing a hole in the eye. I think that flexibility ensures that tea is channelled according to real needs, rather than according to the possibilities that stand back from a bank account. That's one. Secondly, there are still enough overdimensioned objects in Estonia. The fact that they are built in a situation where money has been looked back on the bank account is a fact. What are the main orientations and objects to be invested in? I don't know. I don't know how to name objects that should be invested in first order. However, I myself have asked the Minister for this and have received more or less an exhaustive reply. In general, it seems to me that there is still room for improvement in Estonian road construction in order to increase efficiency. If we drive past any road construction object, for example, the construction of the Tallinn tram road, we take the summer road construction objects anywhere in Estonia, we see that as a rule, no work is done on weekends and no work is done after six o'clock in the evening. The expensive road maintenance and road construction machines stand idle. Is it really right to use such expensive machines with just a third or 40% load? In my opinion, there is room to increase efficiency. We should also review all over-dimensioned objects, learn from them what to do in a different way in the future, how it can be done in a simpler way. It is not likely that the load on our roads will increase exponentially in the near future, so there will be no need to build very large hubs. In addition, as I said, the efficiency of using machines and the speed of completion of the objects should be analysed. It is not normal for one small piece of tram track to be built in Tallinn for a year and a half. Tallinn is no exception, and several roads have been built for a very long time. And that in itself means a great deal of damage to the economy. However, when I come back to the obligation to spend money, I have already answered for a very long time, I must say that as a consumer, as an excise tax payer, I assume that if a certain percentage of the excise duty paid by me, collected on the basis that the polluter or user pays, is allowed to invest in road repair, that should also be done. If it hasn't been done so far, it's not good.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U71	Please, Aivar Chef, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U72	Good manager! Good waitress! How can you imagine building tram roads in Tallinn at night? Or do you think a farmer buys a combine so he can work with it 24/7 and winter? You're saying that if a new law is passed, the road plan will be filled in 100%. So far, it has not been met, even though it was 25 million more. So how will this be done in the future? The real question is that you said there were no changes. The manager also claimed the same. But take the bill and read § 4. I searched the bottom of the drawer for the first reading and second reading. They're not exactly the same. There is a very important difference as to whether one word is singular or plural. If in plural there are many, as singular, there is one. So it's not like we can't read, and you can read.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U73	Thank you for your comment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U74	Thank you. Please, Siim Kisler, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U75	Thank you. Good waitress! You gave a very positive message that if this bill becomes a law, you will be financed in Estonia according to real needs. It's great, of course, if that's how it's gonna be. But the current government, the initiator of this bill, has said that 25 million will be reduced by road money. Am I right to understand that the current real need is EUR 25 million less than what is foreseen?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U76	If the Government of the Republic has said so, then that is the case. There are certainly objective reasons for this. For example, the introduction of euro money will shift to next year, the use of money for this period has been successful and there is no need for co-financing from the same budget line. I think the Government of the Republic has perfectly objective reasons why it proposed this.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U77	Thank you. Please, Marko Pomerants, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U78	Thanks! You said that you thought it was unheard of, or almost beyond, that it would take a year and a half to renovate a piece of tram track in the city of Tallinn. But can you tell us what the experience of other Estonian municipalities in renovating tram routes is? How long has it taken them, and how much better is their work than Tallinn? That's the first part of the question. The other side is that in the case of one of the drafts this morning, some people thought that it was reasonable to leave this draft to the proceedings, but some felt that it should be removed from the proceedings for the time being. Do you think a draft amendment to the Road Act would be welcome if people could still express their views on how excise duties on fuel could be used?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U79	Yeah, absolutely! Such an initiative is only to be welcomed. The more opinions, the better. It is also easier for representatives of the public to vote in favour or against one or the other proposal. As far as tramroads are concerned, we have all read from public sources that, simply because of convenience, a work front was taken as wide as possible. We see every day that there are a number of machines standing on the Pärnu highway. Again, the same logic: as a consumer, I, as a tax payer, assume that if money is collected on the basis that the user or the polluter pays, that money will be placed as soon as possible on the road. For example, in Tallinn and also in many other parts of the construction of the road, Tallinn is no exception here, although it is certainly not the case that Tallinn and all other municipalities are wanted to oppose each other. I think that the working culture unfortunately leaves something to be desired and it would be possible to speed up the process in order to make road users more comfortable. This is certainly an issue that the new Minister for Economic Affairs must deal with in cooperation with the Head of the Road Administration. Tallinn is not the only example here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U80	Yes, if the Ministry of Finance has put forward such a proposal, they therefore believe that this resource can be released and used more efficiently. It certainly requires certain changes, reprogramming. But I think all this can be done in practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U81	Thank you. On the next occasion, when the Minister defended this bill here, I do not know if he had a bad day or what, but he said something about the fact that one of the reasons for imposing excise duties is to reduce the burden on roads. Road loads can be reduced in many ways, including by not repairing roads, they are in bad condition, and cars and other means of transport simply cannot drive on the road. It is as if one objective has been met immediately. But now my question. The local authorities have expressed their views, the Ministry has expressed its views, and the Commission has also expressed its views. The opinion of local governments is very different from that of others. Who, then, is ultimately speaking the right thing, and who is talking the crap?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U82	Whoever's talking the right thing and who's talking the wrong thing, we didn't analyze at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U83	Thank you. Please, Tõnis Palts!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U84	Dear waitress, Compared to the previous coalition, this coalition certainly reduced the funding of roads. These are completely separate topics, whether to build smaller objects or reduce funding. Smaller objects can always be made and savings can always be made. That's what my question is about. Where would you have foreseen that instead of 2 + 2, you could have done 1 + 1? I'm thinking of a few specific paragraphs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U85	I'm sorry, Mr. Palts, I'm not Tamur Tsakko or Aivo Adamson, the current head of the Road Administration, who really needs to analyse these things. The subject of this draft is certainly not specific sections of the road.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U86	Please, Margus Tsahkna!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U87	Thank you very much. Good waitress! It is obvious that the current government has simply decided to raise money to meet its electoral promises, and one possibility is to waive the provision that 75% of excise duties on fuel will be paid for tea. In this way, about EUR 25 million per year will be taken away from the tea storage facility. I am asking your opinion. The Prime Minister, who was also a member of the government in the previous coalition, says that this money has been used in the past to build large nodes, which has been an excessive and impractical cost. Is he actually waving and lying? In fact, these major nodes have been built up for European Union money. To find out the pure fact, is he wrestling and lying?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U88	You know, Margus, very well that all objects financed by the European Union require co-financing. It is not the case that an object, such as Mäo's traffic hub, was built only from European Union resources. Whether someone is wrestling and lying, it is certainly not appropriate for me, as a Commission waitress, to make an assessment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U89	Thank you. Please, Tõnis Palts, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U90	You, as a Commission waitress, spoke several times about over-dimensioned objects. Now you said you weren't Mr. Tsakko. Who are you talking about over-expression, if you can't tell me any object you could have made smaller? Who are you if you're not Tsakko?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U91	I am Kalle Palling, member of the Riigikogu and member of the Economic Commission and rapporteur from the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U92	Please, Ken-Marti Vaher!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U93	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, You're making a change that the Reform Party has been rolling here like good sweet buns for quite a few years now. And as you know perfectly as a member of the Riigikogu, if this 75% requirement were not in the law, road money would have been quite a million fewer by this year. The Ministry of Finance had to work hard to find this money and invest it in the roads after negotiations with the previous coalition. My question is simple: what are you predicting, how could this legislative amendment affect? Will the impact be greater than EUR 8 million less in the short term for road construction, or will it be even more drastic for local authorities?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U94	Thank you. As a member of the Riigikogu, I would not be able to support such a gradual decline. I think that the amount of money will vary from one year to another, it will be allocated according to the road plan. As I have explained here several times, according to the receipt of excise duty for one calendar year, road maintenance works cannot be properly planned. During this period, procurement cannot be organised and it is a very long process to argue with potential tenderers. I think that flexibility makes this work much more consistent and that it is likely that both local roads and national roads will improve year by year, also in those places where they are not in very good shape today.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U95	Thank you. Please, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U96	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague! In recent months, when I have been debating various major sources of commitment, I have noted that the inquiring of one or another measure has been particularly problematic. After all, you are now, as I understand that, after the adoption of this law, there will be some additional resource that can be used to launch some kind of measure, whether it be an increase in child support or something else. Do you sense that if we did not make this change, there would be over-financing in road storage and therefore, in your opinion, could be taken away from it? The alternative would be not to do that.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U97	Thank you. Please, Margus Tsahkna, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U98	Thank you. Dear waitress, I'm moving on from Sven Sester's question. In fact, it has been a great value that we have evicted all roads and roads financed by the state from the political winds of attraction. We've had a solid source of funding, a fixed percentage of fuel excise. The total amount has depended on how our economy is doing, after all, fuel consumption has been affected. The regulation has been contrary to that of Tallinn, which you have also criticised strongly. The leaders of Tallinn confirm that the capital has a flexible budget, but what is actually done is what is considered politically necessary. You're going to make this legislative amendment before the election. You've been in politics for a long time, more or less when you're my age or a little bit younger. Can you give your word that, as a result of this decision, you will not play political games with long-term investments and road maintenance money, as is done in Tallinn?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U99	As a member of the Riigikogu, I assure you that I do not intend to participate in such political games.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U100	Thank you. Please, Ken-Marti Vaher, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U101	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Estonia is a small country in terms of population, including the number of taxpayers, but actually a relatively large country, at least the size of the Netherlands. This means that our road network is extensive and very burdensome for the taxpayer. This also means that investment in road construction is extremely important. However, this is certainly not an area where popularity can be sought. If you put money in roads, invest in them, you can see the result in five or seven, or in a good way in the longer term. In general, however, this is an area whose needs may fall between two chairs so that the roads are simply unfunded. Is your message to local authorities and society at large that this change will deliberately reduce the amount of money invested in roads that this 75% requirement has actually guaranteed so far, or is your message simply that you want more flexibility?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U102	You answered the question yourself. We really want more flexibility.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U103	Thank you. Please, Sven Sester, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U104	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague! Actually, I think it's the third option. The aim is not to be more flexible, but to cover up some ideas. This is my approach to the draft, and I have reason to believe this because I do not agree with you that the financing of roads is optimal and perhaps too high. Rather, we should put more resources in it. So here's my question to you. If you see that next year, thanks to a more flexible system, it will be possible to withdraw money from the road sector and channel it into implementing some new measures, which sites will we take away the resources from? It's gotta be more than 20 million from somewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U105	At the meeting of the Commission, we did not mention any pros and cons on paper, which object should receive less money and which is not. I have said here several times that the road-saving plan has been approved and it has been drawn up in the light of the current regulation, the current law, where it has been fixed that 75% of the excise duty is passed on to roads. We have been assured that, in the future, road maintenance will continue to be financed on the basis of a road map. So there is no reason to assume that certain specific objects will not be funded in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U106	No further questions. Thank you very much, Kalle Palling. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Thomas Tõniste!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U107	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This is not the first time that policy has raised the issue of reducing road funding. However, this draft is regrettably the first time that the reduction in road funding has become the official position of the government. In particular, ministers' arguments have been that the lack of money will help to save, help to be smarter. However, when I asked if it would be possible to pay less for the employees of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, perhaps smarter and better, it turned out that this principle did not work. There has always been the impression that the money is over in the road sector, even though it has been well spent on roads. We have heard many times talk about over-dimensioned objects. However, today the Commission's rapporteur stated that money has been spent too little on roads, roads are not in good order. I don't know who to believe anymore. Is someone wrestling, or is there just a desire to make this really messy? The arguments that there is no reason to worry give no assurance, but in 2018 there will be an increase in the amount of money according to the road plan. It has seemed particularly strange to say that future flexibility does not oblige us to spend the money, but according to the current law, the state has been obliged to spend the money all the time, even when procurement has been contested or the construction of roads has been delayed for some reason. Even the Minister of Finance here repeatedly shunned the answer to the question of whether it is certain that the money has not yet been able to be moved forward to the next year. He didn't want to answer directly, and he didn't seem to know how to answer it. At the same time, we also heard that the representative of the Commission had a great deal of concern about road construction. Road construction is actually such a nice area where everyone seems to be a specialist. Some have said that it is only during the summer that they are building. I believe everyone will remember when Toivo Jürgenson once spoke on television about the construction of a road in snow-hanging. After that, he became an object of ridicule. At the moment, it is not clear whether so far many members of the Riigikogu have not realised that you will be built even if there is no snow, if there is a proper climate, and it is mostly in the spring, summer and autumn, whether we like it or not. Who's going to lose because of this bill when it becomes a law? Roads are the most necessary infrastructure for us on a daily basis, and letting them go affects us all. The negative effects of reducing road savings are long-term and unfortunately manifest in many ways. A good state of infrastructure is an important prerequisite for economic development. We can bring examples from Tallinn and elsewhere in Estonia, where roads and streets have been lost. Can I have an extra three minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U108	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U109	In some places it is quite difficult to imagine that it is a developing and innovative country. I would like to stress that road conditions have an impact on road safety. No minister or rapporteur from the Commission heard this issue, as if nobody was interested. But the state of the roads is affecting road safety. The transport development plan aims to reduce the number of road deaths to less than 50 by 2020. The draft we are discussing today unfortunately takes us beyond this objective. The maintenance and development of the road network requires long advance planning. The decoupling of road financing from fuel excise will take away the certainty of funding from the whole sector, and it may be feared that once this has been done, there will be no easy return. Finally, I note that the assertions that the draft is intended to increase the flexibility of the use of the budget and does not jeopardise the financing of roads are twirling. The explanatory memorandum speaks of the need to bring the funding of roads into line with the real need. Does the government really think that the real need is less than what is supposed to be a monetary separation? In any case, the Commission's rapporteur did not consider this, and the studies so far have shown the opposite. I would point out that the current law also does not prohibit you from financing more than 75% of excise duties on fuel. Nor does the current law force us to spend money by force, as we have been repeatedly tried to make clear here. Behind the issue of flexibility and real need is the government's desire to take money at the expense of roads to honour the naked promises made in the coalition agreement. The budget for next year has not yet been approved, but the country's budget strategy approved by the government on 29 April has 25 million euros less money planned for roads than the current road law. So much for flexibility. I firmly believe that the draft cannot be supported in this form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U110	Thank you. Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U111	Thank you. Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U112	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U113	Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the road law under discussion seeks to abolish the current regime that 75% of excise duties on fuel will be directed to the maintenance, repair and construction of roads and streets in Estonia. This plan certainly does not make sense. The main reason for this is the desire to make the budget more flexible so that it is possible to draw up an operational state budget. Yes, of course, the ideal flexibility would be achieved if there were no revenue-related costs in the Estonian country, if the Minister of Finance had a package of free money ahead at the beginning of the year, which was not earmarked for any law, and the Minister of Finance could, according to his decision, distribute the maximum amounts of money to the ministries each year. This would be ideal for flexible budgeting, according to the Ministry of Finance. But, of course, it makes sense to have a policy where long-term priorities and budgetary flexibility are balanced, i.e. where there is room for both factors in the budget. We have not understood here in the course of the procedure why it is the law of tea that is being sacrificed to the desired flexibility. At the same time, there is also a sign of danger. For now, we know that the cost of income is very different. Take, for example, environmental charges. Perhaps we can also decouple environmental charges from the purpose that the laws provide for? Or will the use of social tax fall into the hands of similar political decisions in the future? Next, unemployment insurance, or the independence of the unemployment fund, and gambling tax, which has been spoken of many times and for which I cannot understand what is really the position of the Reform Party. Today, the Commission rapporteur said that she would support the decoupling of gambling tax in order to increase flexibility in this way too. At the same time, I remember that it was the Reform Party that proposed to link the amount of gambling tax to the construction of the Estonian National Museum. So those who have now proposed to increase the flexibility of the state budget do not actually combine their actions and words. As I said, it is a sign of danger that the decoupling of social tax and other potential income costs from the sources of money will go on. In view of the long-term development of the sectors, this reduces confidence. All of this also concerns the construction and maintenance of roads. The road management plan is a long-term development plan. This is not just a list of objects that we can say that if one or the other object is not built or repaired this year, it will come in the next year or the next year or in the next seven or eight years, but the road plan itself will apply. It's actually demagoguery. The road management plan shall be valid if it is accompanied by the specific years and amounts of money by which it is to be implemented. Only in this way can long-term road avoidance, investment and construction of objects be planned. If the development plan does not specify the year in which the specific object is to be financed, it will be of more literary value. Forward, the confidence of local governments. There have also been repeated requests in this Chamber today, which gives confidence that the money on the roads of local governments will not be reduced. The new law doesn't offer that certainty. The answer was that the guarantee was the Minister's word. The Minister's floor should give local authorities long-term confidence in planning their budgets and development plans, including road maintenance. Come on! I am not such a young and naive person that the Minister's word would replace the law in my eyes, especially when we have the current Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications in office. After all, we have seen the Minister's views on ferry traffic in one week become 180 degrees, or the opposite. And now we have to think that we have confidence for years, or even decades, and that is guaranteed by the words of the Minister. Let's not be so naive! I would also like to mention, for the sake of the verbatim report, a topic that has been through several times during the debate, and namely that over-dimensioned sections and nodes have been built in Estonia. Well, we each have our own opinion, and I have my own opinion on it. Over-dimension has still been blamed on the previous Minister for Economic Affairs, Juhan Parts, who is said to be responsible for all this. However, let me remind you that the planning and decision on the financing of the cross and many other sections of the road completed a few years ago took place years earlier. I remember very well that this happened with the participation of the Socialists and at a time when the Minister of Finance was the Socialist Ivari Padar. Then many funding schemes were decided and procurement was prepared, but many objects were indeed completed during the time of the Minister of Economic Affairs, Juhan Parts. It is strange to hear complaints from the current minister to his predecessor, rather than to be addressed to his party partner, the Minister for Finance. One more point. The proposed reduction in the funding of roads jeopardises the realisation of regional balance efforts. We know how different Estonian roads are. For example, in Lääne-Virumaa, nearly one hundred percent of national roads are under black cover. While we are going to South Estonia, we see that less than half of the country's roads are under black cover. There are such big differences in Estonia. These regional mismatches should be eliminated step by step and can only be done by means of a road development plan and adequate funding for the sector. But if we take money out of it, the dream that the road situation in the whole of Estonia will converge is not possible. So I don't think this proposal makes any sense. I hope that the collective mind transcends the mind of one person who has proposed, as well as of the government, and that a better solution will be reached in the Riigikogu than the government's proposal to amend the tea law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U114	Thank you. Please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U115	Today we are taking money off the roads, but it is promised that local authorities will still get their EUR 28 million. We know that the European Union's grant will build large objects and that this work must not be missed. So where does that money come from? The money will most likely be taken away from local national routes. From those roads that are in the worst condition. Yes, we have managed to fix the bigger roads, but smaller national roads will certainly need major investments in the coming years. On several occasions, the Minister and also the Commission rapporteur here spoke of the fact that too much money has gone into the construction of certain objects, some overpass or other object has become too proud. For their information, if a four-line road is to be built, the classification requirements include one very clear condition: the left-hand turn in the same plane must not be allowed to be made on such a road. There's no point in building a very decent road with traffic lights at every intersection. The idea of building multi-line roads is still that we can get from point A to point B as quickly and as safely as possible. If we were to go all the way over the traffic lights, this luxury would make no sense, and we could calmly continue with one-way roads. So, are we going to pass this law, and from the new year, no more dustless roads will be built? Are we not going to invest in all the local routes? Will the projects be off-track? We have been talking for years that there should be a two-track road between Tallinn and Tartu in both directions, which would also allow the people of South Estonia to reach the sweetest jobs in the capital more quickly. Will it now be calculated that, when Rail Baltic starts building, the sum of the land buy-in and the self-financing related to everything else will reach half a billion euros? And where does that money come from? We don't want to borrow. The biggest concern, however, is that no law will say how much money will be allocated to roads in the coming years. In my opinion, this is the biggest concern and therefore I cannot vote in favour of this draft in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U116	These issues were not addressed at the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs. They have been briefly touched here in the Riigikogu Hall, debating the draft at first reading with Minister Jürgen Ligi in the form of a couple of questions and answers. As I have repeatedly emphasised on this speaker's desk, it is deeply my personal opinion that this way of saving tea can improve something.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U117	Thank you. Please, Priit Onion!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U118	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You answered my benchmate's question, and I didn't understand whether you and I had different insights or whether it was just a flash of thought that wasn't quite adequate. You were talking about euro money and that excise percentage. That euro money is still in there right now. Your answer seemed different. But I wanted to ask you about flexibility. The government has confirmed a number of long-term projects, such as the dust-free road project. If in the past, however, it was possible to predict excise duties a little and to shape an understanding of when one or the other route could get a dust-free cover, then it seems to me that, with this flexibility, it is going to be difficult to take into account perspectives.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U119	It is expected that in the future it will be on exactly the same basis. Still, the objects are taken in the order they need to be. If there is a need to rebuild the road's soil body, it is wise to install a blackout immediately so that the road becomes dustless. Such links also exist in many other parts of the world. In a situation where cars are becoming more and more sustainable, there is no reason to predict that excise duty will continue to increase. As far as I know, I dare to estimate that in the near future, excise duty will be reduced and, anyway, we will have to find additional amounts to finance road maintenance. I think you yourself have a personal experience of how much your vehicle took four years ago and how much it takes now. This trend can be passed on to the whole of Estonia. In fact, the annual collection of excise duty is decreasing, as shown by the analysis carried out by the Ministry of Finance. So flexibility is to be welcomed. At one point we are in a situation where 75% of the excise duty is much less than a few years ago.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U120	Thank you. Please, Erki Arrow!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U121	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U122	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Flexibility is certainly very important, but we were discussing the waste law the next week. One of the arguments put forward by the initiators of the draft, for which the law must definitely be amended, was that the law should be transparent and that local authorities should not be able to use the money collected in the waste management to their discretion. If we look at the draft law amending the Road Act, §16 (4) of the Act is meant to be worded in such a way that local road savings subsidies by local government units or their various road objects are approved by the Government of the Republic. What is the risk of being randomly appointed, which local authority will receive the money to save tea, which one will not?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U123	Both the speeches and the explanatory memorandum confirm that road maintenance is financed under a road safety plan. So I consider it highly unlikely that your fear will prove justified.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U124	Thank you. Please, Marko Mihkelson, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U125	Thank you, good chairman of the meeting. Good Kalle! I will remind you of one keyword in relation to Raplamaa: Kuimetsa One section of the road in Kaiu municipality is what you have also paid attention to when you meet the voters. I hope that with joint efforts we can get this section of the road straightened out in the future. You said before, in answer to one question, that expensive machines and equipment are not used in road construction with sufficient efficiency. How will the amendment of this law contribute to efficiency gains?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U126	I do not think that this bill should make a huge contribution to this. I just mentioned that we have two big problems. The Road Administration has been in the habit of over-dimensioning traffic hubs, which foresee a massive increase in traffic load. And secondly, it is my personal opinion that it would be possible to increase the efficiency of the work by increasing the burden on the machines. As for this section of the road to Piiumetsa, it has been my concern for three years. I've been in contact with the Chancellor of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Head of the Road Administration all this time. Last year, the earth body of this section of the road was built capitally. We both learned with Chancellor Plump that once this step was taken, it makes perfect sense that the black cover installation would also follow. Otherwise, at one point, the soil body will be open again, and the entire investment will prove to be of little use. Unfortunately, last year, when I understood that work had to come to that, it did not. We hope that this section of the road will be completed in the coming years and that we will be able to drive through it beautifully so that the car does not get dusty.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U127	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U128	Thank you. Dear Commission waitress, The explanatory memorandum to the draft law states that as a result of the amendment of the law, 25 million euros will be released for other expenditures, the percentage of excise duties on fuel will no longer go into road construction. You spoke in your answers about the fact that there are no major road construction projects to which the money should go. In fact, however, this bill gives the municipalities absolutely no assurance that their share will not be spent elsewhere. We have tabled an amendment which would provide assurance that 10% of the excise duty would still go to the maintenance and construction of local roads. It has not been supported. What gives rural municipalities and cities confidence that they will not be spared?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U129	The fact that the Minister, as the initiator of the draft, has confirmed that the money for the objects has been particularly taken into account by local authorities, which do not have a reduction in fixed costs. When speaking of the absence of large objects, I meant only this year, when one period of use of structural resources ends, and the other only starts next year. The need for co-financing is therefore lower than in previous years. I suppose that's why these 25 million will be released this year. I expect that, in the coming years, when we have the money again that I am thinking of the European Union's resources, this amount will also increase.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U130	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U131	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Thank you very much for the waitress. The National Audit Office audited renovation works carried out on the main Estonian roads. Road renovation is a costly business worldwide and about 1.5 billion euros have been invested in roads in Estonia. Nevertheless, as a result of its audit, the National Audit Office came to the opinion that the state has used much less money for road storage than is prescribed by law and recommends that the principle of 70% of excise duties on fuel be directed to road storage be observed. Now, for the sake of flexibility, you want to give it up. Why do you not follow the recommendations of the National Audit Office?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U132	I think the National Audit Office is on the right track, and I tried to explain the same logic here. Actually, as a road user, I have legitimate expectations. If the law provides for 75% of the excise duty to be passed on to repair roads and if it is not actually done, as the National Audit Office admitted, then something is wrong and the state has misbehaved with me as a taxpayer. The ability of the Road Administration in recent years has not been sufficient to make effective use of this money, whatever the reasons for the contested public procurement, the disputes with landowners whose country a section of the road should go through. After all, we remember the dispute about the section of the road near Kose rural municipality in the construction of the Tartu highway. All these things have happened, and I think that it is the opinion of the National Audit Office that the Government of the Republic has come from, confirming that it is not possible to plan exactly the use of all the money in one calendar year, even though the law obliges us to take advantage of it and guide the way. This is the way in which it is proposed to make funding more flexible, which does not automatically mean that funding is going to fall dramatically.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U133	Thank you. Please, Kaia Iva, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U134	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Last night, when I was driving this way from the light of a song party, I was in such a sad mood with emotional questions in my head. I met a lot of people there who asked what had happened. What has happened after the provisional government has taken over the Estonian state? First of all, the entrepreneurs have been attacked. The new draft law seeks to increase the burden on businesses every week. In the meantime, the question arose as to whether we in the government really did not have any entrepreneurs who could understand where the tax money came from. It is not possible to share anything if there is no entrepreneurship. Most of the tax money received by the state still comes directly from business. One day our people seem to be living very well, their home expenses are low. Then we will have a bill on the table that will increase the excise duty on natural gas and make liquid fuel sold to domestic consumers for heating the house more expensive. Yesterday it seemed as if it was a great day of mourning for all of us, but especially for our mothers. The Interim Government has decided that our mothers do not deserve a maternity pension and will withdraw 86 million euros from them in the next three years. And today there's money being taken off the road on these tables. If someone in this hall says that 25 million are not able to put it anywhere, ask the local authorities whether they would have wanted to use this money every year and fix the roads on the municipal balance sheets. How many municipalities have in recent years been able to asphalt or otherwise dust-free their gravel or repair gravel and asphalt? It says here that life begins to follow a road plan. Unfortunately, the waitresses do not seem to have taken the road plan seriously. So far, a prospective road-saving plan has not been completed in any year; there have always been no construction of any object. And now that the money's taken away, from the new year, they're gonna start building all the roads?! I have realized that there will be no peace of the night in Tallinn, as trams and other roads will be built at night as well. So those who live on the Pärnu highway have reason to fear that in a few days a new bill will come, perhaps the extraordinary session of the Riigikogu will be convened, and it will be legalised that the road construction will have to take place 24/7 and also in winter with thick snow. We know that we only adopted the transport development plan here in the Riigikogu a few months ago. The plan makes it very clear that at least 10% of excise duties on fuel will be allocated to support the storage of local roads. How does this draft law coincide with this development plan? Is the development plan for transport to be brought back to the Riigikogu and amended there? I'll have three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U135	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Your persistence honors you. I am trying to say equally consistently that nothing will interfere with spending the money planned in the budget even next year when it comes to investment money. But my question goes on from there. You have still raised an argument as to why road money must be reduced, that too large objects have been built. However, let me remind you that the reason for building too many objects is not that there is too much money. Neither is the lack of money to prevent them from doing so. It is still a question of planning and constructive decisions. If at some point it has started to seem that the plans have been too proud, then you have to learn from it, but not just to cut the money. You have said yourself that this money is needed to cover election promises. Couldn't there still be an increase in local government allocations? We know that all municipalities need more road money.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U136	If at the exact moment that you are proposing to increase the amount going to local authorities, you would indicate the items in the road safety plan on which the money is taken, I think this is a proposal that the Road Administration could consider. As long as it's not shown, there's nothing to talk about. And I think, however, that there is a link between the existence of money and the ambition of building large objects.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U137	Thank you. Please, Urbo Vaarmann!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U138	Thank you, Mr President. The rapporteur from the Commission. That's the kind of thing I'm asking. You and I are in the support group for the mining industry, and it has been mentioned repeatedly that oil shale is being used in road construction, but it has been stuck behind certain nuances. Has it not been considered that oil shale could be used more? This way, by keeping the environment, we can get a plus letter and also road construction cheaper. What can be done there?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U139	However, the use in road construction of waste from oil shale mining has been kept in mind. This has not been done so far, as high-quality fragmentation has been available at low prices so far. On the other hand, there have been no positive results from experimental sites where the road was built from the fragmentation of oil shale mining. Now, in recent years, these objects have been built primarily in East Virus and are monitored every month and every year. In the future, I think it will certainly be possible to increase the use of this fragment in Estonian road construction, also elsewhere than in Ida-Virumaa. As far as road construction is concerned, the distance of transport of construction material is a very important cost component. But this is certainly a subject to be considered by reviewing the concept of environmental charges and the requirements for road construction as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U140	Thank you. Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U141	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I still don't understand. If the Prime Minister says here in front of the Riigikogu Hall that 40 million is in the budget over the money, that the budget is planned with a margin, then why must 25 million be reduced by road money and search for objects from approved plans that are excluded from the plans to add any other roads to it? But my question is about what you have repeatedly touched here today, i.e. how to use road construction machines and equipment more efficiently and burden them more. I do not understand how the state can organise this. You also said yourself that a specific draft law would not contribute to this. But how is it to be done? Does the state set any rules on how a private company has to use its own technology, or do we re-establish public car bases? What are the specific measures you have always referred to, talking about the need to make better use of machines?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U142	Good questioner! First of all, I haven't always referred to it. I have mentioned this a few times as a personal idea of how efficiency can be enhanced in the road construction sector. Certainly the draft we are discussing does not regulate it, and I do not think it needs to be regulated at the level of the law. There's something the Road Administration can do. I think it can be regulated by deadlines for the completion of the objects.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U143	Thank you. Please, Priit Onion, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U144	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! When you answered my question before, you said that there would not be enough excise duty coming in the long term, and that is why it makes sense to create flexibility. It's as if you could get extra money for tea. However, I do not see a contradiction here in the sense that if we have the understanding that excise duty is not available, then road money can always be added to other resources. That didn't make much sense. However, as regards the method of obtaining additional money, the Ministry of Finance would certainly be pleased if they could always start a clean slate and come to Parliament with their proposals so that no amount is involved in anything. Has the coalition already discussed the following options, such as decoupling the financing of sport and cultural events from the payment of the gambling tax?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U145	The answer is that it has not been discussed. Personally, I think it's a reasonable idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U146	Thank you. Please, Jaak Aaviksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U147	In your presentation, you repeatedly referred to misplaced road construction. There are probably enough people in this Chamber too who realise that over-dimensioned and not the most effective road objects built both in time and in financial terms are a problem. But I had the impression that you, too, felt that simply allowing EUR 25 million to be taken away with a legislative amendment would hardly solve this problem. Were these issues raised in the Committee on Economic Affairs and when raised, what was the position of the initiator, or government, of the draft? Will these problems be addressed and, if dealt with, will this be done at the level of the law or at the level of individual decisions of the executive authority? To whom are these problems addressed?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U148	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U149	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Committee on Economic Affairs. In answer to my previous question, which gives the municipalities confidence that savings in road savings will not come at their expense, you said that this assurance is provided by the fact that the Minister has confirmed this in his own words. But we all know that a few blunders are enough, and this minister is no longer a minister. His successor has no obligation to keep his predecessor's promises. Is there any way that the Minister's promise can be made in writing? If so, what should it be like? We have offered to write down in the law that 10% of the excise money is going to be stored on local roads. Is there a softer way? For example, the Minister could issue a regulation that would last longer than his term of office. Why can't we do that, because the Minister's word is clearly not enough?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U150	For me and the entire Chamber of the Riigikogu, the Minister and other officials of the Ministry have confirmed that in future you will be funded on the basis of a tea plan. There is no reason to look at the links between the fact that if we untie excise duties on fuel and the use of money in the road storage, the amount that is directed to local authorities' roads will be reduced. I'm gonna ask you a rhetorical question. Would you agree that in the city of Tallinn it is also fixed that a percentage of the budget will go to tea storage, not to any fun enterprise, which is, of course, also organised at the expense of road money? This is what we see about the quality of the roads in Tallinn. Anything can be done, but if it is based on a road plan and followed by best knowledge and practice, I do not think that writing a percentage into the law is a more sensible solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U151	Thank you. Please, Annely Akkermann, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U152	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, thank you very much. I would like to draw attention to the report prepared by Andre Sepp, which was also discussed in this Chamber as a matter of national importance. In particular, local authorities point out that the lack and constant change in national budget allocations does not allow longer-term plans to be drawn up to clean up roads. The report recommends that local governments plan the use of road savings funds in such a way as to be clearly visible to the public. It is also recommended to increase the amounts to be allocated to municipalities for road maintenance where possible. Why hasn't your proposed bill taken these suggestions into account to the slightest extent?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U153	I don't quite understand you. In your previous question, you mentioned that the National Audit Office has come to the conclusion that road money cannot be spent for objective and less objective reasons. The proposal of the National Audit Office, as far as I understand you, was also to reduce the proportion of excise duty allocated from 75% to 70%. We want to make regulation more flexible, we do not write in a specific percentage. The explanatory memorandum to the draft law states that you will be financed in the future in accordance with a road management plan adopted under the current arrangements. That's where the same predictions have been taken into account. I don't think the future is as dark as you sometimes fear in the heart. You know that, actually.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U154	Thank you. Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U155	Thank you. Honourable waitress! If we look at the roads and streets of Estonia, I think we can say that the state of state roads has gradually improved, step by step. Local government roads are so and so, everything also depends on local government priorities and contributions to roads. However, I dare say that this has become a somewhat greater problem than the driving capacity of national routes. Perhaps the streets of county towns and other smaller urban settlements, which have become worse over the last ten years, have been at their worst, and not improved. Was it discussed in the Commission whether additional funding should be provided to municipalities or whether the methodology for allocating funds should be changed so that the State's aid to them would be higher than so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U156	The Commission did not deal with this issue in its draft proceedings. But I agree that road conditions are certainly good and city streets are better in some cities, worse in others, in some places pretty bad. At the same time, I am not sure that an increase in the amount of road maintenance for municipalities will necessarily help to improve you. For example, in the city of Tallinn, it could help, I don't know, to create Tallinn TV 2 or to appear twice as dense as any Capital. It is a serious problem that the use of road savings funds in municipalities is not transparent. Of course, there are also positive exceptions. In the middle, I think the parish leaders still understand very well where they work and who need to work for their municipality, for the inhabitants of their city. But it seems to me that the local government leaders in Tallinn do not fully understand who they should be working for and why the money allocated to them should be used for.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U157	Thank you. Please, Erki Arrow, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U158	Liisa-Ly Pakosta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U159	Good Riigikogu! I don't give a speech here like this when we discuss the amendment of the law on maritime safety, when thoughts went a long way. But my concern about this bill is sincere. The problem is that there has been a political decision at some point that we are bringing road safety money out of the political winds of road financing. If we look at Estonia's recent history, there have been heated debates and even electoral abuses when they have been weighed down, where, to what extent and during which time, either before the elections or after the elections, to start roads, to maintain them, to which parish to grant additional road savings money. So far, as a result of 75% of excise duties on fuel, this regulation has been more or less fixed. Whether we've had good times or bad, you've been cared for. Roads are an area that is constantly in need of investment and care. The current government has also come up with a great package of topics for the people before the elections. It's very difficult to fight and it doesn't have to. After all, most of the measures, such as increasing child benefit and raising the tax-free minimum, have been supported by all political parties in this Chamber. It is clear that the government, particularly when looking at current economic forecasts, which have become more negative than more positive, needs to find sources of cover. Jürgen Ligi, who has so far been a representative of conservative and long-standing monetary policy in the government, has remained not alone, but has even changed the philosophical side. The story that the state budget needs to be made more flexible, he's been talking all along, and there's a philosophy behind it. However, it now seems that if, in order to fulfil these popular promises, flexibility is created in the state budget in such a way that the same issue of road maintenance and investment is pushed into the hands of political attractions, it does not coincide with a benevolent culture of state governance. In short, I am convinced that one of the values that has so far been kept out of political games has, if not immediately, been pushed into the hands of political attractions, at least for the future. There is no need to search far for an example of politicising the construction and repair of roads. This has happened right here in Tallinn. When the elections are coming, you will be improved, and when the elections are over, road investments will be reduced. If we look at the state of the roads in Tallinn, we will find a lot of patched streets where the holes are simply covered. But in the long run, it is more costly for the city than to thoroughly clean up the roads and allocate more investment to it. So we've kept the country routes out of the winds so far. If you travel around Estonia, you will certainly see a number of concerns that need to be resolved, but the state of the roads is satisfactory in the light of the general development of our economy. The second thing is that all of this is veiled with half-sisters and some kind of dim. Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas has once led the Committee on Monetary Affairs during difficult times of cutbacks and actually shares financial issues quite well. It is strange to hear him say that we are forced to abandon this system of channelling 75% of fuel excise duty into road maintenance, as it has created a situation where the construction of Estonian roads has been clearly overdimensioned and the money allocated to it has been abused. For example, large nodes were brought up, the construction of which has been discussed for a long time and then decided together. Of course, you can always argue about whether money has been spent properly to the end, whether anything could have been done at a lower cost. But two big issues are being confused here. This has been the European Union's money that has been able to invest in our infrastructure precisely for the construction of nodes. It is not directly related to money obtained from the collection of excise duties on fuel. As a result of the government's decision, road savings will be reduced by EUR 25 million as early as next year. When you think about what's going to happen after next year, it's cumulative underfunding. The director of the Road Administration, who is not a politician, has also made it very clear that we are replacing our relatively stable and long-term investment plans with underfunding, which may eventually be due to the fact that before the elections, you will be patched up and other road maintenance works will be carried out. The political flags are all attached to everything, and this is how they try to win the votes of the voters. I think that state infrastructure is such a strategic issue that it does not need to be pushed into the hands of political attractions. Once again, the coalition could seriously consider whether to make that decision. Our seven years of collective governance showed that, at very difficult times, when the costs of government had to be seriously cut, we were able to leave certain issues alone. One of them was the same roadblock, and the other was an education area where, even in spite of the difficult situation, we were able to channel money, because we felt that the best economic policy was precisely education policy. That is why I recommend that you discuss once again whether it is worth taking a slippery path with such an important subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U160	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U161	Thank you. I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U162	Good manager, more time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U163	Thank you, Peter Laurson! Time's up. Margus Tsahkna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U164	Today, we have been discussing for several hours the draft law amending the Road Act 681. When the Commission's waitress answered our questions, she, like a parrot, was entangled in the claim that the current system, where it has been very precisely established, that every year a certain amount of money from excise duties goes on the road, is bad. Now the road money will be distributed according to the road plan, which has been done so far, only so that everything was very precisely in place in the state budget. Whether the road money was missing or over, he couldn't say. We all know the money's missing in the road safe. That's what we see every day when we're on the highway. We members of the Riigikogu go to different places to meet voters. Only the member of the Riigikogu who has not met the voters can say that the people are very pleased with the roads. This has still been the main problem at meetings, how local roads could be better maintained, how to ensure safety even in winter, when it is slippery. It is often the large trucks that drive out of the road with the slipperyness, since the salt truck has not been able to drive out on time. That money's being saved, but at what cost? Safety in particular. What's to think, a truck driver with a full load on him who drives far slower than the speed allowed on the winter road, but he just slides into a ditch? He has no one to get help from. And he could lose his job if he slipped off the road. If it is a small enterprise, it is often unable to restart its business after such a blow. This is not the first time that the reduction in road money has risen to the agenda of the Riigikogu. In earlier times, we, representatives of the IRL, together with many other members of the Riigikogu, have been able to resist this and the amounts allocated for road maintenance have rather been increased. The local authorities were already satisfied that the needy could be done. But now, next year, with nearly 25 million cuts in road savings money, there is no way to do that at all. To tell you here that we have enough money in the road safe and that it could be used somewhere else, it's irresponsible. It is just irresponsible that 226000 pensioners are told that you have nothing to do with the money that was meant for your parental pension. Yeah, for some, it's a small amount of money that would have gone into retirement, but pensions are small, very small. If it comes with even ten euros, it is a big deal for a pensioner. This would amount to over 100 euros a year and could either go to a doctor, buy medicine, or heat up the room. It is interesting where the money is channelled, which is saved from pensions and road savings. We have not received that answer in this Chamber. People in the coalition have said that too many road objects have been built so that they did not have to be built. Is the Tallinn road from Kost too wide? We remember the time when there was this last road that wasn't four lines. Would we like to drive on this road? I think that the people who are currently using this four-line highway will always sigh lightly when the Kose is behind you and you can continue along the wide road towards Tallinn. I'm sure they'll think it's well done. The only thing that could drive faster than 100 to 110 kilometres an hour on such a good road in the summer, or even 120 kilometres an hour in the summer, could be allowed there. But that's what road safety is all about. A similar path could go from Kose to the cross of Mäo. How much more effective the activities of entrepreneurship and those involved in entrepreneurship will be! Of course, it would also bring more money to the Treasury. That's something to think about. I do not think that the draft law amending the Road Act should be dealt with in this form. The procedure for this draft should be interrupted. The financing of roads must not be reduced.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U165	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U166	Good chairman of the sitting! I'll take three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U167	Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U168	Everyone go to the highway museum in Põlva, and you'll see the history of roads from old times to now! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U169	Thank you, Marko Pomerants! Your extra time is up.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U170	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U171	I agree with colleagues from the Fatherland and Res Publica Union who have spoken earlier, and I will save good listeners and verbatim readers from repeating all this. Funding security in the planning of longer-term decisions is important for both the memmies-tate, who may at one good moment discover that the €86 million already planned for raising their children as a supplement to their pension will not be available to them in the coming years, as well as the officials of the state and local authorities. In fact, a great deal depends on infrastructure and its longer-term planning, both at national level and in local government, in terms of attracting and making investments. Speaking of continuity, did you know that archaeologists estimate that Estonia's network of main highways is at least 300 years old? This shows the importance of decisions taken in the construction of roads, the extent to which a wrong decision can have an impact. I have two things in my heart about tea. You don't just drive cars down the road. The previous speaker, Erki Arrow, also mentioned that you are also needed by people who are walking or riding a bicycle. The road is a part of the living environment in exactly the same way for road users with engines and four wheels, as well as for two-wheeled road users or tip-kill pedestrians. To understand the magnitude of my concern, why don't you just look down this hill? Consider the development of the recently completed Järvevana road and the Ülemiste intersection as a small example. Next time, ladies and gentlemen, if you're wiggling through Järvevana's road with your car phones, take a look at what's going on next to it. The road itself, designed for quadricycles, is indeed new and shiny as a spectacle stone. But pedestrians and cyclists must alternately dive through open sand and scratch the back of the head to figure out what to do in the event of unexpectedly disrupting slices of light traffic. Jalgrattur cannot actually use the level crossing on the Järvevana road near Pärnu highway, because it is so constructed that a cyclist can only pass by using the road. This is certainly not the goal of building this path. And as a triumph, the bike path ends completely after it. When driving along the Tartu highway in the direction of Mõigu, you can see the exact same picture: the bike road breaks down in front of the shopping centre and there is no way to travel by bike. As far as Järvevana Road is concerned, there is no sidewalk near Viadukt Street. If you go down the Järvevana road through the Luite site, there will be about 100 metres of emptiness or loose sand before the rider, and then he will return to the bike road near Järvevana. This 100-metre-open sand, which lies between two wheel tracks in a large tansport node, is a fairly vivid example of how either the end of money or reckless planning will make the rest of the massive investment almost useless. If you look at the end of the Filter road towards Sikupilli and try to cross this section with a bicycle, you will be again faced with the Erna track type of ordeal: once again you will have to tap in the sand or in the mud. And I'm only talking about a piece of tea! There is no doubt that light traffic routes would be used much more than they would lead anywhere and would not be interrupted from time to time. Another major concern coincides with the issues of excitement at night in this Chamber. Just in case, I'll remind you that children are moving down the road. Children tend to be forgotten regrettably when drafting many draft laws. They have become invisible in the Republic of Estonia like a little boy in Tove Jansson's "Invisible Child." Remember, this story tells us that when grown - up people did not ignore one child for a very long time, it became brighter and brighter and eventually completely transparent, or invisible. Unfortunately, this is also the case with this same draft amendment to the Road Act. The instructions for drawing up our drafts provide that, in the case of absolutely all drafts, their demographic impact must also be analysed. I am often approached by people living in the countryside who raise young children and are concerned that if their children are of school age, how will they still get to school on their own, when the child cannot move safely along a large highway along which the school could go? Of course, this issue also concerns people in sparsely populated areas who need to take children to kindergarten and who do not live near kindergarten. It would also have been very appropriate to analyse the demographic impact of new forms of funding for roads in this draft. On the surface, there may seem to be no connection. However, it is precisely the requirement to analyse the demographic impact of all the drafts, too, that has led France to be among the countries with the highest population in the European Union. It was a fully aware decision in France that, when drawing up each draft, attention should be paid to children and families with children, even if it is as far away from them as infrastructure and its financing. As we can see from the examples of life itself and the movement of people, demographic trends, it is precisely infrastructure issues that force many people to change their place of residence against their will. Unfortunately, we also have many tragic accidents with children that have happened either on the crossing or on the side of the road. I very much hope that an analysis of its demographic impact will also be included on the draft material before the third reading. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U172	Tõnis Palts, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U173	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. A hole in the tea is a hole in entrepreneurship and the Reform Party is burdening entrepreneurship with an additional EUR 100 million per year. It's really a bomb on the legs of business. But of this alone, the Reform Party will take at least EUR 25 million off the road in the coming year. That's where the roads are more holed up. It is not for the state to support entrepreneurship financially. It is up to the state to create an environment, to create infrastructure to make entrepreneurship more effective. Roads and other roads are infrastructure. A bad road and a hole in the highway aren't just a hole that makes us crunch our teeth and breaks our cars. Each hole affects the efficiency of both the general government and the private sector. If there are hundreds of these holes, they will significantly affect efficiency more than a thousand or a million, then even more. The Reform Party is quite clear and single-handedly investing EUR 25 million in holes. I mean the comparison with the situation if they did not make this change and did not reduce the road money. Yesterday I was talking about the damage that the Reform Party has done to the transit sector. I have a proposal for the Reform Party: stop, please, vermin! Don't be brakemen, let go of the brake! Entrepreneurship wants to develop. If you did not stop entrepreneurship, in the medium term, there would certainly be more than that EUR 100 million in public finances, with which you are holding back entrepreneurship through tax laws, and this EUR 25 million, which will cost you to drill holes in the road. If you did not take these stupid steps, it would certainly be because of the increase in the efficiency of entrepreneurship that the budget could be overfilled, and you could also solve the small concerns of the social democrats. I understand the socialist way of thinking, so as not to say a leninistic way of thinking. Social Democrats think money grows in kindergartens, retirement homes, hospitals. No, Social Democrats, money doesn't grow there. In the Reform Party, I am disappointed that they cannot explain to the social democrats where the money comes from. Please set an example and take steps that increase the effectiveness of entrepreneurship. Another concern is the demagogy that revolves around this very bill. It seems as if it is innocent, but if demagogy is used to explain that the withdrawal of 25 million from the roads is almost beneficial to the Estonian economy, then such a fooling of the people will come back as a boomerang in the long run. Kalle Palling said several times from this very remote control that the roads and other objects were over-dimensioned, too big, etc. When I asked him to name a section of the road that's over-dimensioned, he couldn't answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U174	Thank you, Tõnis Palts! Your speaking time has long expired.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U175	Can I have three more minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U176	Should have asked for more time during the call, I let you finish your thought. Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U177	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U178	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft, which is intended to decouple the financing of road maintenance and repair from excise duties, may, at first sight, seem to be seeking flexibility in terms of the idea, but it has also been clearly stated that it actually bears the interests of reducing road money. If you look at the fresh road-saving plan, which has been completed last year and is valid for the years 2014 to 20200, it is based on the principle that the Estonian road network has developed and meets current needs in its density. The challenge is to increase the driving comfort of the existing network and to continue to make the road network safer, using the available budgetary resources. In order to make optimal use of the money, it is intended to ensure that the national road network is maintained and to create safer conditions for both vehicles and pedestrians to travel. The road maintenance plan, completed last year, is planned for repair and reconstruction work on paved roads at around 1700 kilometres per year, which will ensure that on average seven years minimum necessary repair measures are applied on each covered road section. In addition to the maintenance of gravel roads, the Estonian Road Administration orders the maintenance of gravel roads for up to 400 km per year. The road management plan has been drawn up in particular following expected traffic frequencies, road safety and existing road condition, as well as environmental protection requirements, regional development plans and other circumstances. Road maintenance is planned in order of priority: storage, reconstruction, construction and development of a road network. The results of the study "Strategic analysis of state roads" by AS Teede Tehnokeskus have been taken into account when planning the maintenance of the road network. The target is to reduce the proportion of roads in bad and very bad condition by 10% by 2020. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U179	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U180	This increases the number of roads in good condition. The achievement of the objective will be decided by the assessment of the state of the road and five levels have been set from very good to very bad. The relevant assessments shall also describe the levelling of the road. On a very good road, there's a flat road cover, there's a good ride, speed tends to exceed what's promised. The road is generally flat, there is slight longitudinal roughness and individual transverse roughness, but this does not affect the comfort of driving. The level is satisfactory if the road surface is relatively uneven, there are individual light shocks, and driving speeds are generally permitted at maximum distance, but the road surface needs to be monitored when driving. Bad road cover is uneven, there are a lot of mild seductions and single major seductions, driving speeds vary, trajectories need to be changed while driving and careful focus on driving. A very bad road is one where the road surface is very uneven, there are a lot of slight and large setbacks, driving is uncomfortable, and driving is generally below the maximum authorised limit, bypassing the holes and unevenness. If we look at the target set in the road plan, the originality, which was 2012, was very good roads in Estonia by 19% and the target set for 2020 is that the very good roads would be 20%. There were 26% of you at good levels in 2012 and the goal is to reach 35%. There were 28% of roads at satisfactory levels in 2012 and this could be the case, but the biggest progress should be how bad and very bad roads will not be 27% as in 2012, but we will reach 17% by 2020. Now one might ask that, when we have clear targets, we have a current road-saving plan, to which a certain source of revenue is intended, and we are now saying that we are reducing road money and making the use of the state budget more flexible only in order to repair less roads, which is still the real aim. Is the real objective of failing to achieve the targets set in the road map? For obvious reasons, the Pro Patria and Res Publica Association cannot support the draft law amending the Road Act in this form. If the government union has concerns that, for some reason, the state is not currently in a position to ensure the implementation of the road safety plan, to repair you as much as necessary, then you might consider directing additional funds to local authorities so that they can keep the roads in order on their territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U181	Thank you. Look at what a short and laconical bill! It fits nicely on one page, consists of two sections and not a long explanatory note at all, but how much concern there is about it! Indeed, everyone who talks here about various analyses of the effects of draft laws has reason to be concerned, because the draft under discussion has not given enough attention to this. I myself made a discovery last night, examining more closely the draft law on child protection and the draft law on disability benefit. Indeed, they were drafts whose impact analysis identified at least six or seven areas, starting with the social effects which are elementary to such laws and ending with the impact on regional development and even security. In the case of the Child Protection Act, for example, it was found that security and safety should certainly grow when children grow without a rod, in good hands, then they logically come from good citizens. I refer to this in the context of another draft, which we dealt with here between 4 and 5:30 yesterday, so that the initiators of it, who were 40, could still have thought about the accompanying effects on the gang. They have been able to fit the entire impact analysis on two lines or, in fact, there is still a little bit more to the third than one word couldn't fit on two lines. So impact analysis is certainly an important issue and in fact, everything is connected here. My previous speakers on the IRL have spoken a great deal about parental pension and the fact that the current government has behaved badly, taking EUR 86 million from the parties involved over three years and postponing the payment of this pension supplement until 2018. We have quite similar experiences in this regard with Eiki Nestor, who has been in contact with pensioners before in our ministerial role. Pensioners in general are always quite impatient in such matters, and they sometimes rightly claim that they may not have enough days at all to wait for that time. If the parental pension had entered into force earlier in due course, the dredges would certainly have bought petrol for extra money, would have paid excise duty and the road situation would have improved. You can see how things are connected in the world. A lot of attention has been paid to the big intersections. I went to Narva this Sunday and came back on the Jõhvi-Kukrus road, heading for Rakvere. I was looking at this intersection with that look at whether he's gotten too much or whether he's a nice forward looking object. And if so, what to do with it. I must agree with Siim Valmar Kiisler that it is very difficult to evaluate such objects if your knowledge is limited to simply passing through some intersection of Estonia. It seems that there are tables and fields all around, and this is a completely pointless object, but looking forward, it may still be wise to make an intersection so that the cars can fit nicely there in the future. The need for road money became clear to me in this very town of Narva. A great deal of examples are given in Tallinn, but the fourth time in Narva was the Energy Run. In the case of energy running, it is interesting that the event is always held on different streets. I was ready for the grand finale, which is usually before the finish, but this year the finale was canceled. And the reason was very simple: there was no normal cover on this street. There was a road repair, and it's really not very good to run on the rubble. So the need for tea is obvious in a large number of municipalities. One day, Mr Gräzin spoke a strange story. I don't really understand him very well, but maybe it's all true, and I don't know all of Estonia that well. He said that he was really looking for an old Soviet-era VAZ car. The plan is that if he goes to his constituents, he'll leave his finer car, I don't know what car he's got on the side of a hard-coated road, and then he'll continue to go to his constituents with that VAZ. Last night, much of the Soviet era was said to have occurred, for example, in marriage. But you see, the Soviet VAZ car could be the one that Gräzin thought would lead to his constituents. So everyone who thinks that there is really no need for more money to build roads, whether the demagogue is really doing that word here is a lot of use, or whether they, as politicians, do not go as actively to their constituents as Mr Gräzin. In his case, we know he's dating, and that's why his vote is always very nice. At the same time, I would like to soften some of the acts blamed on the government. Although it has been said here that 226000 old people are being harmed in relation to parental pensions, we allegedly did 170,000 good tonight. So the government's good and bad balance sheet isn't so much inclined towards doing bad. Liisa's concern about the fact that bike roads end up somewhere in strange places, and they don't go anywhere as far as car roads. Indeed, this is the case, and there is no really good solution here. This is evidently understandable and is due to the very fact that there has simply not been enough money to lead the bike routes to the next settlement rather than to end between the two settlements. In Lääne-Virumaa there is one such bicycle road that takes Rakvere from Mustvee to Kakumägi. But somewhere along this road it will reach the village of our former colleague, Vello Tafenau. So that Vello Tafenau would be free to take a bicycle to Rakvere. The roads are important. My second favorite county after Lääne-Virumaa is Põlvamaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U182	Thank you. Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U183	Marko Pomerants, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U184	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I congratulate our chairman, Eiki Nestor, who, in my opinion, was completely fair to Tõnis Palts. If a person does not ask for extra time to express his thoughts, he cannot be given it, but on the other hand, a person could really be right to stop thinking. So you've been doing the right thing, Eiki, but since I've got a lot of ideas, it's good to book me three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U185	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U186	Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U187	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, During the Soviet era, one very popular film was 'Repentance'. There an old woman went up the hill on the road and asked a younger woman on the window where that road would lead. The younger woman said, "Nowhere." The older woman said that if she did not take her to the temple, there would be no point on the way. It's probably one of Jürgen's favorite movies. The roads don't have to go anywhere. As he has said here in the Riigikogu, there should be no great burden on roads and reducing the burden on roads is one objective. Then we shouldn't have to repair so many of them. We have a road plan. A reduction of EUR 25 million in road savings will certainly not speed up the implementation of this scheme. A development fund event took place in our conference hall last week, where an innovative solution was presented to solve Estonia's transport problems. A young man very freely presented a new opportunity in the form of self-propelled cars. The argument was that if we could get the self-propelled car system to work, there would be no need to build infrastructure objects as large and costly as the Ülemiste intersection, etc. Unfortunately, I don't share this young man's optimism, and that's what I said in that hall. Above all, we need infrastructure to make the economy and logistics work better. A study was carried out a few years ago asking the rural people what they dream about the most. One of the most frequent responses was that of the light traffic route. The people of Tallinn found it a bit odd that with such a high percentage this desire was won, and the competence of the survey was questioned. But when we look at how much traffic has increased in re-independence in Estonia, when many people use more personal cars, it seems logical that if rural children have to go to school along a large road with no pedestrian road, then their health and life are at risk. I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U188	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U189	I am an ambassador to Ida-Virumaa, and I remember very well when the first light traffic route was opened in Jõhvi. For the first six months, I didn't see any people driving or walking there. More or less at the same time, the light traffic route before Narva was opened and the picture was about the same. It hasn't been too long now, but health athletes have already started using these roads actively. Every time I go there, I see dozens of people on these roads, the use is very active. We see the same trend across Estonia. Will the planned legislative change allow these dream projects to be better implemented? I seriously doubt that. We should, in fact, resolve many of the concerns about the amendment of the tea law. We'll take the country road. We take Haapsalu, where to reach Hiiumaa, you have to cross the state road. If anything happens to sewers or other communications underneath it, you have to pick up the road. It's a state road, but it's the city's responsibility. That's where the troubles start. When we look at the amendments to the Road Act, we see that decisions on all objects are made by the Government of the Republic. How effective and fast can we be when it comes to responding to the emergence of large and very urgent investment objects? Very much has been reminded by the guardians of the bill that we have put too much money into the big bridges. Yes, I also think that we have wasted a lot of money to build certain infrastructure objects. In order to make better use of the money, we could involve more engineers in road construction and take more account of other European experiences. To sum up this whole thing, I think that changing the road law in the planned way will not improve the situation, rather worsen it. A lot of strength for ministers to develop new strange ideas! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U190	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U191	Honourable Chairman! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Liisa Pakosta pointed out that this draft lacks an analysis of the demographic impact, but the situation is much worse. I quote from the explanatory memorandum to the draft: 'Although the implementation of the law is expected to have a significant impact on the public authority and local authorities managing the financing of road and local roads, the impact analysis report is not included in the explanatory memorandum because of the road maintenance planning period. Analysis of impacts would not allow the draft to be dealt with as a matter of urgency. ' When I asked the rapporteur for the draft, the Minister for Finance, how he would comment on it, he said that he had not written the draft explanatory memorandum and could not comment on it. At the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs, I asked the officials of the Ministry of Finance who were supposed to be the authors of the explanatory memorandum. They didn't know anything about this passage either. Finally, they were unable to answer the question of how such a view has been obtained in the explanatory memorandum and, most importantly, why this draft is so urgent then. Why can't this legislative amendment be discussed calmly after the summer vacation, having seen an analysis of important impacts before? The members of the Riigikogu would then be able to decide calmly by looking at the analysis of the effects and, on this basis, make their choice as to whether or not to support the draft. As I said in the Commission, officials cannot answer that question. There's no proper explanation for why it's so urgent. A little bit of flexibility, too. The main objective of the draft is to increase the flexibility of the state budget by decoupling revenue from excise duties on fuel from the cost of financing road maintenance. I like the principle of flexibility in itself, I admit it. However, it is regrettable that it is being implemented as only in one area. At the meetings of the Government of the Republic, it has been said several times that the same could be done, for example, by means of a gambling tax, which should not be rigidly linked. But no, they don't make decisions like that! Such a decision has only been made in one area. This is not a substantive flexibility. It's something else, and we know what it is. It's a withdrawal of money from one field. Indeed, Tõnis Palts must agree that the originator's demagoguery is amazing. On the one hand, the Government of the Republic publicly announces that their aim is to take away 25 million euros of road money, on the other hand, the initiator acknowledges that they do not know what will happen as a result of this draft becoming a law. It's like they don't know if the money's gonna go down or not. Yes, they do! They won't tell us the truth if they say they don't know. It is a matter of taking money away from one area. The content of the draft is therefore unfair. True, it is not as ugly and unfair as the decision of the Government of the Republic on parental pension, which brutally harms 226000 people. I admit that it is not so vile to want to change the law of the road. However, this is, in conclusion, an ugly step, because it leads to a reduction in money in one area. Who will be hit by a cut in money in this area? This is particularly painful for people who live away from larger centres. One important factor in Estonia's regional development is our communications: our roads and other transport connections, communication connections and the entire infrastructure. This concludes by deciding whether people will be able to live further away from larger centres in a satisfactory way. Many do make difficult decisions. For example, when children are of school age, parents may decide to move from rural areas to a bigger center because they say they can't do it differently. We see this very often in Estonia. Hitting these people is the wrong choice. The decision is justified by the argument that there is too much money in this area, so that even grand solutions are made. It seems to me, too, that perhaps some projects have been carried out too grandly, but I am quite convinced that we do not have the authority to evaluate it in this Chamber. I remember when Tammsaare Road, Järvevana Road and Pärnu Road were built in Tallinn in their time and this viaduct was built there. Oh, what an insane criticism it was in the public that this object was clearly overdimended and too expensive! And what's the situation there now? This intersection isn't going to stay, it's already clearly too small. It couldn't be predicted that there would be such a huge flow of traffic. I think we still have to trust experts in making such choices. We are certainly not the smartest here to tell you how big a bridge has to be or how many lines you have to build on a section of the road. We have no competence to look forward to the next 10 to 20 years. And if we're wrong here and decide on too cheap and too poor objects, then the consequence is that we need to start building these places more quickly. In summary, such decisions will be very damaging to the State. This draft is not a draft to make the budget more flexible, but a draft to withdraw money from road savings and cut down on road investment. It is therefore an unfair bill that hurts the rural population in particular. Under no circumstances is this a good solution. I propose that, after analysing all the effects, we discuss this draft further in the autumn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-19_U192	Thank you. It's 1:04. The session of the Riigikogu is closed. Closure of the sitting at 1.04 p.m.
