ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-02_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! Who has to hand over drafts and inquiries? Please, Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-02_U2	Ladies and gentlemen, The Economic Commission will initiate a draft Public Transport Act. The previous full text of the Public Transport Act was adopted already 14 years ago, in 2000. In the meantime, very much time has gone on, life has changed and the law has also been amended several times. It is time to make a whole new text. The Riigikogu reached quite a distance by preparing it in the summer, but for procedural reasons the initiator withdrew it from the procedure. Now, as a result of the joint work of the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, we have reached the point where we can re-enter the draft. Its main objectives are: to enable increased competition in bus and coach transport and to ensure stability in the quality of transport services, to improve the quality of taxi services, to specify the basis for granting travel incentives, to organise the rights and obligations of road users and drivers, to clarify the competences and tasks of public transport authorities, etc. That's the story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-02_U3	No more wishes. I have adopted one draft, it is being treated in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. Please, let's do the presence check! 76 members of the Riigikogu are present, 25 are missing. Let's get to today's agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-02_U4	Our first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on Courts and Income Tax initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote on 698. Since the draft requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu to be adopted, we will carry out a verification of presence before the vote. 76 members of the Riigikogu are now present, 25 are missing. I am voting on the draft law amending the Law on Courts and Income Tax, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 698. Please take a stand and vote. 71 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of the adoption of the bill and there were no respondents or abstentions. The Act amending the Courts Act and the Income Tax Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-02_U5	Our next item is the second reading of the draft Act 707 on ratification of the Annex 'European Communities and their Member States' to the General Agreement on Trade in Services of the World Trade Organisation, initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Olga Sõtnik, member of the Economic Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-02_U6	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft law was discussed in the Committee on Economic Affairs on 17 November 2014. No amendments were received and therefore the members of the Commission took the following consensual decisions: firstly, to put the draft on the plenary agenda on 2 December, today, and secondly, to propose that the draft be put to the final vote. I ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-02_U7	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote on 707. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the Annex to the General Agreement on Trade in Services of the World Trade Organisation, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 'European Communities and their Member States', Draft Act on Ratification of Special Obligations 707. Please take a stand and vote. There were 67 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the adoption of the bill as 707 law, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The Act on the ratification of the Annex "European Communities and their Member States" to the General Agreement on Trade in Services of the World Trade Organisation has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-02_U8	Our next item is the Prime Minister's review of the state of research and development and government policy in this area. I will remind you briefly of the procedure, although everyone is already experienced as ambassadors, and this is not the first time for anyone. The debate starts with a presentation by the Prime Minister for up to 30 minutes. After that, there are questions for the rapporteur, and according to § 155 (4) of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, a member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question. Then there are negotiations where only the representatives of the political groups can speak. Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-02_U9	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! In the coming year, there has been funding for R &amp; D at the epicentre of the debate. Ways have also been sought to increase the real impact of Estonian R &amp; D and innovation on society and the economy. Of course, funding models have a role to play, but the problem is, how and what we are going to do with this, greater than the lack of money. Next year, the state is moving towards fulfilling its promise and will provide approximately 1% of GDP for state budget R &amp; D funding. We're not quite at 1% yet, but we're moving that way. Innovation Union Scoreboard placed us in 13th place in the European Union countries this year, so we have achieved one place better than last year. In terms of funding for innovation and the criterion of public support, we have come first, but the 22nd place of the economic impact assessment is not very different from the position of recent years. Estonia needs to learn better to target research funding to increase the socio-economic impact of R &amp; D and innovation. Therefore, the Ministry of Education and Research has started an analysis of the funding of the Estonian research system. The aim is to develop a balanced financing model that ensures that research institutions, research trends and research competences that are important to Estonia are preserved and developed. I consider the readiness of the scientific community to cooperate with businesses equally important. The renewed financing model must encourage this. At the beginning of the year, the R &amp; D &amp; I strategy for 2014-20 was approved in this hall. At the end of August, the government approved an implementation plan that will focus EUR 588 million on research up to 2017. The third 'Knowledge-based Estonia' puts the competitiveness of the state and the well-being of its inhabitants first through the exploitation of the potential of R &amp; D and innovation. This means that science must be cutting-edge and contribute more visiblely to solving societal challenges and be a partner for entrepreneurs. The application of a smart specialisation methodology to find growth areas, as well as support measures, is a direct solution to enhance cooperation between entrepreneurship and science. The planned euro money spike is aimed at developing models of cooperation between entrepreneurs and researchers. In areas of smart specialisation growth, specialized higher education scholarships will be launched, applied research and technological development centres will be supported, innovation activities will be carried out and the Start-up Estonia follow-up programme will be implemented. These activities will support changes in the economic structure. Apart from smart specialisation, the new strategy has given the public sector a more substantial role in organising sectoral R &amp; D. In 2015, R &amp; D expenditure is planned in the budget of the Ministry of Education and Research and six other ministries, with a total budget of EUR 33.8 million. If the contribution of the Ministry of Education and Research is added together with the additional allocation for 2014, the total amount of public funding will be close to EUR 180 million, i.e. EUR 16 million, or 9.8% more than in the year ending. In addition to financial contributions, ministries are expected to develop sectoral R &amp; D action plans. The implementation of the action plans strengthens the role of the state as a contracting entity for R &amp; D that meets the needs of society and the economy, as well as as as as a consumer. Research and development is a missed opportunity in a number of areas. In Estonia, research and innovation must go hand in hand with policy-making and implementation. This means that science must help make decisions, but it must also be a partner in realising them. The pharmaceutical sector is a good example. The fight against monopolies or subsidies for the purchase of medicines is only part of the solution. Instead, research and development work is of strategic importance, as is the cooperation between the University of Tartu, its clinic and the University of Life Sciences in the field of transgenic technology or other research institutions focused on biogenetics, chemistry and pharmaceutical technology. The interest of society is to obtain, in the long term, more effective medicines at a more favourable price. Creating e-residency is also a fresh example of how the public sector can boost innovation through its investments and activities. Failure to do e-residency would be a bigger mistake than the cost of failing this project. To date, more than 13,000 people have registered, 60% of whom are interested in bringing their business here or starting it here. Even if only part of these 8 000 potential new entrepreneurs will make their plan come true, it will be a strong contribution to Estonia's future economic growth. Why should Estonia not in future be the same as Switzerland and Luxembourg or the state of Delaware in terms of providing e-services to small and medium-sized enterprises in the world? To achieve this, there is a need for further innovation in the development of new e-services and products that are attractive to the world. E-residency also boosts innovation in Estonian entrepreneurship, as a smart entrepreneur does not miss out on additional customers. Good listeners! There is no need to convince anyone that R &amp; D and innovation must be the backbone of improving Estonia's competitiveness. Estonia has set itself two major economic policy objectives by 2020: productivity per employee must increase to 80% of the European Union average and employment to 76% of the age group 20 to 64 years. More effective processes,'more value-added jobs' and 'educated and healthy people' are the keywords we mention when talking about changes in the structure of the economy. While Estonia's R &amp; D intensity increased rapidly in 2011 and 2012, total R &amp; D expenditure in 2013 represented 1.74% of GDP as expected. The previous large impact of individual companies on statistics was neutralized. The 326 million euros spent last year on R &amp; D is, however, a remarkable achievement for Estonia. This exceeds total expenditure in 2010 by more than EUR 100 million. However, an increase in R &amp; D spending to 3% by 2020 will require more effective measures and actions. The expected growth of the private sector contribution to 2/3 of total expenditure does not come solely on the initiative of the private sector. The role of the state is to help businesses where there are obstacles that cannot be overcome by their own forces. At present, businesses are calling this the absence of the necessary people and the relative cost of applied research. Businesses can only carry out R &amp; D activities if they have sufficient financial resources and people with the necessary knowledge and skills. At the beginning of this year, a core infrastructure support measure aimed at opening up the research environment to external actors was launched. The EUR 524000 distributed in the first round is a sign that businesses and other potential users of research infrastructures have been waiting for such a measure for a long time. In Estonia, foreign-owned companies are often more quick to invest in R &amp; D. For example, in the last seven years, the employment of researchers and engineers has doubled in the field of electrical equipment, but remains more or less the same in those activities where domestic capital prevails. Innovation readiness in high employment sectors is also important for the country's economic development. A clear example of the development potential is drawn from the collating of statistics on employment and on the labour force contributing to R &amp; D. The manufacturing industry's contribution to employment is, as we know, the largest in Estonia, with a difference of almost six times that of the information and communication sectors. Looking at the full-time equivalent share of R &amp; D personnel, the gap is almost double, this time in favour of the information and communication sectors. The problem of post-growth of researchers and engineers has been at the heart of national research policy for a long time, but unfortunately no effective solutions have been found. Compared to 2007 and 2013, the number of researchers and engineers has increased from 3690 to 4407, from 961 to 1383 in the business sector. True, growth rates are good, but more is needed for the development of a knowledge-based economy. We have begun to develop a career model for researchers. We want to ensure a career of motivation for all researchers and open the doors to young scientists. As a first step, a legislative amendment has already been made to establish open-ended employment contracts for academic staff and to create social guarantees for doctoral students and increase doctoral student support by 10%. The EUR 650 million allocated to R &amp; D under the European Union's cohesion policy must be designed to support businesses and help them overcome the obstacles they face in contact with the world of research. The research environment of Estonian research institutions favours the realisation of growth and the development needs of entrepreneurship. The labs and modern equipment here have never been this high before. Research infrastructures developed with the support of the Structural Funds of the European Union provide a good basis for both cutting-edge science and applied-oriented research. This is evidenced by the significant increase in the number and influence of scientific publications over the last seven years, as well as the number of patents. It is essential to think thoroughly and critically through every investment and to look for synergies with the international scientific community when building infrastructure facilities that Estonia can reach. The long-term needs of developing research infrastructure of national importance in Estonia are defined by the Roadmap, which has been updated this year and will also take into account the growth areas of smart specialisation. Until 2020, the Ministry of Education and Research plans to invest some 31 million euros in developing research infrastructure of national importance, together with the applicant's own funding. After three thorough evaluation rounds, 18 items continue on the Roadmap list, 13 items left out. Participation in international initiatives has become a customary activity for Estonian science. The credibility of our researchers has attracted attention on the scale of the European Union, the OECD and the world at large. The share of external funding in Estonian science is quite high. For example, 495 partners from Estonia have participated in the seventh framework programme, with more than 90.2 million euros of European Commission funding. The perspective of the new Horizon 2020 framework programme requires a reflection of Estonia's participation opportunities in international large-scale research projects. By the end of the year, Estonia will complete the strategic framework for participation in the European Union's research and development and innovation partnership. This sets out the principles and conditions that must be met in the case of projects for the internationalisation of services supported by the State. I congratulate all those who contributed to achieving Estonia's main objectives in the 'Horizon 2020' negotiations. Thanks to you, we will have access to the expansion of participation activities supporting partnership with strong research centres in Western Europe. Estonia also gained the opportunity to pay up to 8000 euros per year for researchers to compensate for differences in wage levels between countries. Honourable Riigikogu! After regaining independence, Estonia has developed an effective, evolving system of research and development and innovation. What could be a better guarantee of the sustainability of the country than people whose research results are at a growth rate and whose achievements are gaining more and more attention in the world? The world's 1% most cited researchers include 35 researchers working in Estonia. Estonia has 26th place among the world's countries in terms of the referability of scientific articles published in the last ten years. Our stronger areas include environment and ecology, plant and animal science, clinical medicine, molecular biology and genetics, physics, and psychiatry and psychology. In assessing the results from an operational point of view, we could continue to highlight a number of other areas. I stress the importance of scientific achievements for society and the economy, and I am pleased that this is also the opinion of the eminent scientist elected as the new president of the Academy of Sciences in October, Tarmo Soomere, Head of the Dynamics Laboratory of the Institute of Cybernetics at the Tallinn University of Technology. The knowledge provided by the academy and universities must undoubtedly be valued and taken into account in the decision-making processes of society. A strong scientific community can be a good partner and knows its needs and opportunities. The law of the Tallinn University of Technology, adopted in the Riigikogu at the beginning of June, which entered into force in September, also speaks of the strength. Probably even before the law was created, most people in Estonia considered TUT to be the leading technical education and science university in the country. From the perspective of the ordinary citizen and the alumni of TTÜ, the law is a tribute and a guarantee of credibility. It gives the university wider rights and obligations to realise high-level international research and to contribute to the development of society through innovative services. The step taken by universities to start internal reforms and to organise their responsibilities is undoubtedly to be welcomed. There are currently six public universities in Estonia, as well as several universities of applied sciences, private higher education and research institutions. Public higher education and research institutions employ a total of 9130 people. The state budget finances higher education and research institutions in 2014 with a total of EUR 327 million, representing around 4% of state budget expenditure. The scope is quite wide given the population. In my opinion, opportunities for institutional development should be sought, which would improve the coherence between the capacities of universities and other research institutions and the needs of society. At the beginning of this year, the Research and Development Council decided to commission a critical report on the network and activities of Estonian universities and other research institutions (including universities of applied sciences). Gunnar Okk, a member of the TAN, presented an interim report at the end of November. I am not surprised by the relief tone of the report, which talks about problems and solutions with straightforward words. The topics will be addressed from the current objectives of universities and research institutions and obstacles to cooperation between science and entrepreneurship, ending with an optimal number of universities in the country. The main conclusion is that it is not possible for Estonia to continue to develop universities and other research institutions for a very long time on the basis of the principles which have been applied so far. The economic sustainability of most research institutions is called into question as their liquidity figures are below the critical limit. The volume of business contracts of Estonian universities is about 20 million euros per year, which means that there is room for improvement in substantive cooperation with entrepreneurs. Too many disciplines are taught in Estonia, where there is actually no scientific competence. The development of a university network cannot solve regional policy problems. These are just a few examples of the conclusions in the report, which are difficult to disagree with. Are 351 Bachelor's and Applied Higher Education or 282 Master's degree programmes really feasible for us? How long will we be able to pay grants to research institutions in financial difficulties in the face of a drop in students? Is it enough to cooperate with businesses for EUR 20 million? The final final report could serve as the starting point for the next government union in R &amp; D and innovation policy. Although the report submitted to TAN shakes the salt on wounds, it is important to acknowledge that the Estonian scientific community has managed to date in close international competition. Funding opportunities for Estonian universities, research institutions and universities of applied sciences are significantly below the one-year budget of Finnish and Swedish universities. The annual budget of the University of Aalto is 400 million euros, while the Institute of Karolinska has about 630 million euros. The red line of our powers is lower. I believe that the key to effective and rapid change is in the hands of politicians in Estonia. Our task is to make strategic choices that will ensure the development of R &amp; D and innovation that takes into account society's needs and opportunities. It is understandable that restructuring often causes confusion and dissatisfaction, but when dust falls, strong universities and research groups must remain in Estonia, doing balanced, high-quality science that benefits society. Dear Riigikogu! The measures for the new Structural Funds period will soon be opened. By the end of 2015, we can also use the residues from the previous period. In designing new measures, we place greater emphasis on increasing the socio-economic impact of R &amp; D and innovation, including support for smart specialisation growth areas. We have tried to reduce the number and fragmentation of measures by combining them more into support packages. Estonia's research policy so far has helped us to rise to the company of the world's top. Sprint we've definitely won, but the marathon is still on. It is my wish that entrepreneurs and Estonian society in general will benefit from it. The balance between basic and applied research and technology transfer must be established. This will be achieved by changes in funding and thought patterns and determination. Thank you for the good cooperation of the Riigikogu so far in developing the field of research, development and innovation! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-02_U10	Questions for the waitress. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-02_U11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! We have adopted several R &amp; D &amp; I development plans and strategies, the last of which at the beginning of this year. Indeed, 1% of GDP is intended for this purpose. You expressed a little vaguely earlier, saying that the budget for the coming year is not yet 1%, but close to it. However, please tell us exactly how far we are from 1% and tell us what the longer-term budgetary strategy of the government is. How will this approach take place in the coming years? A bit more general from here on. How do you view the chronic problem that I believe has been in our country for a long time, namely the gap between very nice development strategies and reality?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-02_U12	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-02_U13	Thank you. This year's contribution is 0.86% and will rise to 0.89% next year. We are moving towards 1% with relatively small steps, but we are still going in that direction. With regard to the more distant years from 2016 to 2017 and beyond, we still have a lot of work to do to achieve an increase in the amount of the sector, both in absolute terms, which I do not really doubt, and in relation to GDP. This indicator must also increase compared to GDP. But it very much reminds me of the discussions we held years ago on raising national defence spending. I am very pleased that we are now seeing a much broader consensus on raising defence spending to 2%. I hope that it will be the same with funding for R &amp; D that someday in the future, when we catch 1%, everyone in Parliament will say unanimously that we did and did the right thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-02_U14	Mr Prime Minister! The following sentence in your presentation: 'The development of a university network cannot solve regional policy problems. ' He who can read the threat to the regional colleges of Narva, Viljandi, Kohtla-Järve, Pärnu and other higher education institutions. I understand this is a clue to Gunnar Ok's analysis, but I want to know what your own opinion is. By developing such colleges, we are solving regional policy problems, but by reducing them or closing them, we are once again solving regional policy problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-02_U15	Thank you. This is not only a hint of a report prepared by Mr Ok, but it is quite the wording of the interim report. The point is that regional policy cannot be R &amp; D task number one. However, this does not mean that the schools you mentioned are automatically unsustainable or something like that. It's definitely not supposed to be read out of here. Take Narva College, for example. I'd rather see it develop. I very much like the idea that Narva College is going to teach IT specialty, because this area is directly matching labour market demand. We know that there are quite a lot of gymnasiums in Narva and Ida-Virumaa, where mathematics is taught on a decent, good level. Young people graduating from these schools could become strong IT specialists. It is known that we have high unemployment in Ida-Virumaa on the one hand and a large shortage of IT specialists on the other. These circumstances need to be brought together. Just the emphasis on Gunnar Ok, as I said, in a very critical report, is that sustainability and the capacity of our country must also be a priority in the development of R &amp; D. I wouldn't rush out of here to read criticism of specific colleges.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-02_U16	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-02_U17	It's kind of regional too, but I'm thinking about Tartu and the science park right now. After all, we all understand very well that this is the highest level of science and that there is the county of Tartu. These two things never come together, and no way. Top science orientation is the world and population orientation is the county. They are completely separate from each other and must not be and will not be able to run together, because Tartu county-oriented science is simply not science. It's as simple as that. Have you and your colleagues ever wondered, in preparing a presentation and discussing the science perspective, whether there could still be something in top science that is oriented towards the region? For example, making table-chairs for labs or the like.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-02_U18	Thank you. That's a good question! Considering that the city of Tartu is undoubtedly part of the county of Tartu, in any case it is a state-of-the-art research centre and I think it is very difficult to argue against it. If taken on a wider scale, of course, there are always opportunities to implement science that is not cutting-edge. And here I see a huge potential, as I said in my speech, not only in cooperation between companies and research institutions, but in cooperation with different research institutions. This, in my opinion, is the key to bringing, using your reasoning, closer to the realms of science.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-02_U19	Jaak Aaviksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-02_U20	Thank you, Prime Minister. This is the sentence in your presentation: 'The problem of the follow-up of scientists and engineers has long been the focus of the state's research policy, but unfortunately no effective solutions have been found. ' What is meant by this? We know that we have almost doubled the number of people with a doctorate or, let's say, the number of people defending a doctorate per year. There is therefore considerable pressure to create skilled jobs. However, this has come about as a pressure on the public sector, as the number of people with a doctorate in business has decreased in recent years. Can you tell me what the background and the meaning of this sentence was and what the problem of succeeding is?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-02_U21	Thank you. Just as you are relatively critical of whether a few hundred graduates with a doctorate are enough or not, the same has been said here too. In fact, we all understand that more people with doctorates are needed. Young scientists could come from our universities considerably more than they do now, and this is what we have in mind here. Of course, it must also be said that this is, of course, not just a problem of science. When we look around, it is very difficult to find an area of life where there would not be a shortage of young bright-eyed arrivals. Take, for example, medicine, where there are many very good young doctors, but it is not enough for the system to be sustainable in 10 to 20 years' time. This problem, of course, is a little more universal and must be dealt with in society at large. There must always be post-growth, so in 10 or 20 years' time we will have a number of people with a doctorate that will satisfy our needs, provided that we still believe in the future of an economy where more and more brain work is being done. That is what we are striving for.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-02_U22	Ene Ergma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-02_U23	Thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! Yes, we know very well that we now have a very good infrastructure, many new laboratories with equipment, but there must also be people there. If we now analyse, for example, the University of Tartu, in the last ten years, where 12,000 people with a Bachelor's degree have graduated, 80% will go to so-called soft disciplines and only 20% to those we call hard science. Although, it was very pleasant to learn yesterday that about 50 out of 120 new PhD students come towards physics and so forth. I have this question: who are we going to do this smart economy with? With lawyers or, I don't know, journalists?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-02_U24	There are a lot of lawyers in this Chamber, and I think there are also journalists, so you have to be very careful about that. I am certainly not the one who says that we in society need fewer lawyers and journalists or people with economic education, which I myself belong to. However, I fully understand your emphasis. Of course, we would all like to see the real sciences, or hard science, as you mentioned in English, being more popular. It's completely elementary. I believe that one thing that will change this situation is when society comes to a broader understanding that for those who have to work harder in school, the pay in life will be higher later, especially in terms of pay and career opportunities. Engineers and programmers, as well as doctors, I would expand this society a little further out of the science of people who have to work harder in some ways during their studies. I have several friends who studied medicine or engineering in parallel with my economics studies, and I am not ashamed to say that they probably had to work harder at school. This is the signal we have to give to society. Otherwise, we can't force young people to learn more complex areas. Information technology, programming isn't some classic simple thing. Even though it's not so hard, it seems to young people, I dare say, over average difficult. The main way to create interest in programming in young people who choose their speciality is to give them the knowledge that there is definitely work in this field in Estonia and that there is also a good salary. But once again, journalists, lawyers and economists are also welcome in our society. It is just that the proportion so far has really been a bit to the detriment of the real sciences, in that sense I fully agree with your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-02_U25	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-02_U26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good Prime Minister! My question is about the research and development part of geology. This is not just about your reign, but according to geologists, this area has not been dealt with as planned and strategically for 20 years. At the same time, it is the basis for both the extractive industry and the construction material industry, because it provides resources. How is it that your party's electoral platform is intended to take these matters more seriously in the next election period? We are now doing our strategic research at such a rate that basic research can only be completed in a hundred years' time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-02_U27	Thank you. To be honest with you, the party I run has not yet confirmed the electoral platform, so it is a little early to say. If we look more broadly at geology and the entire mining industry, it is clear that this is an area where Estonia has both competence and real application. The investments made in R &amp; D in recent years, we are also taking up 2011-2012, are not all directly relevant to geology, but relate to the implementation of this result. I am thinking of the oil industry, which, on its own, represents a significant contribution to R &amp; D. If we also look at the result, the use of the technology will provide about three times the added value of oil shale as a traditional way of generating electricity. There is a positive fact that the environmental impact is less than half as a result. But if you answer about a particular field of science, I can see that there is definitely potential in Estonia. What exactly is the solution will probably be known by those who are better able to describe the specific features of a particular area than I am.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-02_U28	Maimu Berg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-02_U29	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! I didn't hear the word 'national sciences' in your presentation. I don't think there's any law or journalism in it, but the national sciences, as we know, are what no one else does for us. We want it or not, whether we like it or not, we have to deal with them. Is this even considered a separate subject? How do you see the present place and the future of national sciences, are you satisfied with this?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-02_U30	Thank you. You will understand that I have avoided naming specific areas as a whole, because when you start pointing out one or the other, something very worthy will inevitably not be mentioned. But clearly, it is also necessary to contribute to the development of national sciences. We have research institutions that are working on it and whose infrastructure is currently developing and improving. I hope that this will give the good people who are dealing with our language and history and other areas that are important for Estonia, of course, also literature, an ever-increasing opportunity to do this work.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-02_U31	Cameron Maruse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-02_U32	Thank you! I'll pick up where the questioner ended up, i.e. on the same subject he touched. We are a 1.3 million people and cannot inevitably cover all areas of scientific spectrum, so we must make difficult choices. However, there is no choice for these same national sciences in Estonian language, Estonian culture, Estonian history and we put Estonian law on this list because we cannot order or buy in industry studies on the topics I have just listed. Sociology, social sciences, journalism can also be studied abroad or bought in. I didn't notice whether it was said in your presentation that we should take care of it, because the Constitution makes us even obliged to preserve Estonian national culture and language throughout the ages. What is your comment on the future perspective?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-02_U33	I agree with you that no one else will study or develop Estonian language, culture, literature and history or law for us. Maybe we could have talked about it more specifically. Although, once again, I tried rather not to mention specific areas. It would be a slightly slippery path in that there are always those who consider the area close to their heart to be the most important. I am pleased that you and Maimu Berg's questions have now brought these scientific areas of great importance to Estonia to mind in the debate. These are Estonia-specific issues, for which we have no choice whether to examine and how thoroughly to examine. We only have to take care of them ourselves with our 1.3 million people.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-02_U34	Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-02_U35	Thank you. Prime Minister! As a representative of the field of Hard Science, I ask you this question: do you consider it necessary that the output of research and development be more 'practical' or'market expectations'? The more practical the output is, the easier it is to find funding. If you consider it necessary, can you propose how this can be achieved?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-02_U36	Thank you. This is what I focused on in today's presentation on how to achieve that R &amp; D is the backbone of our future economic growth. Perhaps I did not stress before, in answering the previous questions, that there is a certain emphasis in the Prime Minister's report every year, which does not mean that other areas are not important. This time I focused primarily on how to better implement R &amp; D in the interests of our future economic growth and how Estonia would become an even more brain-based economy, a high-value-added economy. But why not, next year or the year after, you could put a special emphasis on national sciences, a completely worthwhile idea. Well, life will tell you who's gonna be doing this report one year from this remote control, but at least as a recommendation, I think it'll be pretty good. In answer to Mr Luige's question, yes, it is extremely important that the results of R &amp; D are the basis for our future economic growth. Economic growth can only come from doing things smarter by using more brains and less nature.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-02_U37	Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-02_U38	Thank you very much. There are science grants that are a little more important and prestigious than others, such as the ERC grant, which in turn has several levels, the highest of which is ERC Advanced Grant. Just as I will ask you a question to your predecessor, Mr Clothes. When will the time come when researchers from all universities in Estonia could get more ERC Advanced Grant than researchers from one Swedish university, Chalmers University, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-02_U39	Thank you. Now that's a really difficult question, I have to admit. Well, that depends to some extent on us, too, but we still have to take into account that so far our scale is still quite different. I brought a comparison of the university budgets before. Karolinska's budget was over 600, if I remember correctly, but in the case of the University of Tartu, we are talking about the year and the volume of investments, certainly more than four times the budget. In this sense, of course, I would like to compare and we must compare ourselves with Sweden and also Finland, but achieving the same level is not too easy. This, of course, does not mean that we cannot set this goal and make an effort to achieve it. But right now, telling us when we're gonna get there is a bit of a slippery road. If we're trying to do this, I don't think that's quite impossible. But of course, that does not happen in itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-02_U40	Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-02_U41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! Thank you for your review. In your report, you also compared our activities with other countries. It is clear that R &amp; D and innovation are one of our national success stories and we must be competitive with other countries. My question is whether you are satisfied with our current R &amp; D taxes and tax measures. Do you see any changes that need to be made in the near future to make us even more successful?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-02_U42	That's an interesting question. The Estonian tax system undoubtedly favours investment in order to introduce more research intensity, applied science, be it specific equipment, laboratories or any particular company. I believe that a corporate tax system such as the one in Estonia has given private companies very many opportunities to invest a large part of their profits in the results of R &amp; D and innovation, among other things. This has also been said to me by several managers themselves that since they can either reinvest all profits or almost all profits without the state taking anything apart, they have actually invested much more. This is certainly positive in our tax system and will also encourage innovation in R &amp; D on a wider scale. If we look at those companies that have made foreign investments here, including knowledge- or research-intensive ones, and hired engineers, they too are probably a strong argument for the attractiveness of our tax system. I have just given examples in the field of information technology and telecommunications. But you can also find specific companies whose managers have said that the tax environment in Estonia is more attractive than in some competing countries, and that is why they came here. I therefore believe that we must certainly maintain the strength of our system and, on the other hand, this is the subject of broader political debates, however, I believe that we must reduce the tax burden on labour, including the higher value added workforce, and, for example, the tax burden on researchers. Labour taxes are considered by very many to be the biggest obstacle to creating even more high-value-added jobs in Estonia. I understand that we have very large differences between the political parties in the Riigikogu on this issue, which is perfectly acceptable, because this is part of the political debate. But I believe it can actually make things better.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-02_U43	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. I will open negotiations for the political groups. First Jaak Aaviksoo, please, on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-02_U44	Good President! Prime Minister! Our law on the organisation of R &amp; D has included a point that the Prime Minister will present to Parliament at least once a year a presentation on the state of research and development and government policy in this area. This has been the case almost all the time in the history of the Republic of Estonia, and today there was a presentation in this long line. I begin by saying that at the beginning of this year, and more specifically on 22 January, the Riigikogu approved the long-term development plan for research and development for the years 2014 to 20200, where expressis verbis stated that in 2015 the level of R &amp; D expenditure is 1% of public budgets and is maintained at this level. This was the fundamental scientific policy decision of the previous government, which was confirmed by Parliament. We now know that the current government has reviewed this decision as approved by Parliament and reduced the funding for R &amp; D to 0,86-0,89. Of course, it is understandable that the government is forced to make political choices, but we also know that the savings from forward-looking R &amp; D investments have gone to social spending. This can also be understood, but in this case, it is important not to close your eyes to the fact that social expenditure has been more important than the future of the country through the promotion of R &amp; D. Secondly, it should be fully accepted that the ongoing work in the R &amp; D Council, including the proposals for changes to the R &amp; D system commissioned by Gunnar Ok, could be a very valuable input for future cooperation to promote R &amp; D in the coalition to take office after the spring elections. However, I think that many of the political choices might sound from here today. I am pleased that there has been a major scientific shift in recent years where, alongside the eccentricity of science, it has been decided to pay more attention to practical socio-economic outputs. However, such action should be much more decisive and consistent. The most regrettable, however, is a situation where lies are transmitted to the whole scientific community and to the role of science in public and economic life as a whole. I will just give you a few examples. First, oil shale energy and related. It seems that this is one of the areas whose strategic growth potential is one of the largest given Estonia's objective conditions. At national level, however, more than modest attention has been paid to research in this field, and efforts by the private sector in this direction have found rather political misconception and non-support, be it the intention to break up the Estonian Energy complex or some other political steps envisaged. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-02_U45	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-02_U46	I believe that the efforts aimed at oil shale exploration would certainly deserve much greater support than they have so far. It's not just oil shale. It is worth taking other natural resources in Estonia seriously, especially phosphorus. It is therefore regrettable that the government in office has clearly signalled a negative signal by prohibiting the research necessary for the economic application of phosphorite and for the knowledge and exploitation of our national resources. Scientific advice to tackle socio-economic problems, in my opinion, would also deserve more attention at a practical level. We know that the issue of the feasibility of establishing the Nabala Nature Reserve has arisen in connection with the construction of Rail Baltic and that both the Academy of Sciences and many professionals have called it into serious question. Unfortunately, these views have not been taken into account, which has led to potential costs in determining the Rail Baltic route, amounting to tens of millions. I would also like to touch on one of the Prime Minister's answers to the question of the regionality of higher education and research. Obviously, with the Prime Minister, I have a fundamentally different view of what the regional political role of science, including higher education, should be. The idea that Narva must build IT education in order to enable Narva students to go to higher education near their home is certainly not part of the 21st century. Higher education is acquired where it is best placed. If you have to travel 100 miles [100 km], you travel 100 miles [500 km], 500 miles [500 km], and 5,000 miles [5,000 km]. The idea that we can provide higher education and science with homemade resources in each district centre is certainly not part of the 21st century. Let us be reasonable! Regional policy potential must certainly be developed, but its most fundamental instrument is the creation of productive, high-paid, higher-education and academic jobs, rather than the creation of inefficient colleges with more than modest growth and development opportunities. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that such a report is taking place here every year. I believe that the signals relating to research and development that come from society in a row will reach the serious attention of both the current government and the future government and the Riigikogu. I think that, in the wider sense, we have no reason to be satisfied with the way in which we have managed research and development. Let no one here think that this statement is not self - critical either to a large extent. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-02_U47	On behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please, Mart Meri!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-02_U48	Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Prime Minister in general for a good and realistic view. Estonian research is good, development is not so good, but just below it. I would also like to clarify what the previous speaker has said about the funding of science in the context of gross domestic product. While it was 0.86% in 2014, it will be 0.89% of GDP in next year, 2015. Indeed, there's still time to go to 1%, but at least there's going to be a rise. However, Estonian science is facing difficult times, especially with relief it has begun to come to light this year. I have recently re-read the relevant strategic documents, some of which have expired, some quite freshly adopted. They have been drawn up in good faith, as a tool for shaping research policy and as a message to the public. But you still can't get rid of the feeling that this writing has been sour since the beginning of more decisive paragraphs. At this point, I have no reason to fear the remorse of hindsight from anyone, since I can refer to my earlier speeches, including preventive ones, from this very speaker's chair. The current reality is that Estonian science is a declining field. Now the question is whether the decline is reaching the fatal limit has already reached it or has already exceeded it. Or where's the upper bound? It is a completely political, parliamentary and, therefore, public issue. Where's the line we're controlling? If we have a common goal of maintaining Estonia as a fully-fledged country, then we must also have an answer to the question, which is the volume of full-fledged science required for Estonia. Once this answer is known, funding issues can also be addressed. The volume of science alone doesn't help either. Science isn't an abstract phenomenon, it's not a lick of vandal bone in a tower. Its mission is to give results to the rational functioning of society. Natural sciences, humanities, technical sciences, life and social sciences The necessary volume will therefore be determined by an agreement forming part of the dialogue between science and society, provided that the competences born in science can be applied to the service of society and the economy. The dialogue will agree on values, policies and instruments and, if agreed, more or less so. We are not doing well with this dialogue. And I think that the lack of dialogue in the right case is a noisy silence or interruption, in the worst case the silence of the grave is the biggest cause of the current deadlock. Yes, the potential of Estonian science, also in international comparisons, is impressive in a good way. But harnessing its potential is impressive in a bad way. The life force of Estonian science depends on external subsidies to such an extent that it tends to swim away from under our cover. While the Structural Funds accounted for 12% of total research funding in 2008, this year it is already 59% with own contribution. Estonia's own contribution to domestic science is nominally smaller this year than in 2008. The extrapolation of these figures is based on the assertions that in the future, about 650 scientists, or about one third of the current scientific community, will be able to keep their salaries on full-time employment in Estonia. Is this the actual volume of science needed and sufficient for Estonia? I don't think so. This is probably the result of unfinished analyses and voluntaristic, self-directed policies. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-02_U49	Please, an extra three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-02_U50	Some time ago, the aim was to promote 300 doctors per year in Estonia in order to reach more or less comparable levels with the Nordic countries. These 300 should not have been employed in institutes or universities, but also in ministries, local authorities and innovation companies. This objective has not been achieved because neither the public authorities nor the private sector are waiting for them in the labour market. As if there is no trust, both the state and entrepreneurs, but rather it is still an inability to apply the scientific basis to the service of society and the inability to convert research results into society and the economy. Overcoming this is an intellectual and political issue, as well as a cross-cutting issue, which needs to be fully addressed right now. Scientists are ready for this, the public expects clarity, and the tone of the Prime Minister's review gives hope that there is also a political will to deal with this seriously. I am pleased to mention that the current Minister for Education and Science has tried to alleviate the scientific situation. Minister Ossinovski found 4.1 million euros in the Ministry's own resources for science and reached an agreement in the government to increase the doctoral grant. But, yeah, it seems that in the government, he's been more of a loner in science. However, the Prime Minister's review today gives hope that things will change here too. How, then, will we proceed in this difficult situation, where it is not clear what kind of science Estonia needs, what Estonian scientists could offer to their people, and what society, including entrepreneurs, would expect from their scientists? Firstly, a knowledge-based research policy would first try to convert true knowledge into research policy. Secondly, building trust between the public and the faculty so that the public order can also be filled with content. Thirdly, State aid for the construction of a bridge between science and business, including development, for example through a public research unit. The State has to help with its share where the company has decided to put its resources. In this way, it may also be possible to motivate entrepreneurs, together with researchers, to apply for European money. Fourthly, the potential of the Academy of Sciences must be better harnessed in the design and monitoring of research policy, given more weight to the scientific advisors of the ministries and redesigning the activities of the TAN and the Development Fund. In order to do this, the strength of the future Parliament, its Committee on Culture and the current and future government in ensuring the knowledge-based and necessary full research capacity for Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-02_U51	There are no more requests for the floor, so I will close this item on the agenda. You want a word?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-02_U52	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-02_U53	The Prime Minister would like the floor, so we will not stop dealing with this item yet. A member of the government has the right to speak under the Home and Working Procedures Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-02_U54	Mr President, good members of the Riigikogu. As I know with more than six years' experience, it is good practice, if I remember correctly, that the Prime Minister will finally conclude the debate. In fact, I would like to thank you in particular for your reflection and a meaningful debate. I am pleased that the previous speaker has committed a very serious error of fact and said that we are still going in the direction of contributing 1% of GDP. But I don't think there's anyone in this room who doesn't think we can move any faster. Our great challenge is always how to make the right choices under limited resources and how to be as smart as possible. I cannot agree with this part of Mr Aaviksoo's speech, where he said that there have been no fundamental decisions in the area of R &amp; D, or that this has not been given priority. I think that raising the support of doctoral students, creating social guarantees and targeting plans for the future have been of great importance. I also think it is right that a report has been commissioned by Gunnar Ok to look honestly and critically at what our higher education and science landscape really is. I believe that there is nothing wrong with the government currently in office preparing a report for the next government, which can make fundamental future-looking decisions on the basis of a new and stronger mandate. I believe that in the future, the financing model must also be reviewed to ensure that R &amp; D institutions have more diverse sources of funding. I believe that access to R &amp; D infrastructure and know-how for businesses is also a key point. These are all the things we have to achieve. Of course, there is also no review of the fact that, in the most successful countries, those we want to be like are R &amp; D expenditures, not only public expenditure, but also those of society as a whole, including the private sector. There is also a significant correlation between R &amp; D spending and society's prosperity. If we know who we want to be like, then we actually know what we have to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-02_U55	The Prime Minister was now also able to speak under the Home and Rules of Procedure Act and the item is exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-02_U56	The next item is the second reading of draft law 718 on the amendment of the Code of Civil Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. The rapporteur for the Committee on Legal Affairs is Mikhail Korb. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-02_U57	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed for the first time a draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure and related amendments to other laws on 6 October 2014. The main objective of the draft is to support the implementation of Regulations Nos 1215/2012 and 606/2013. On this basis, the draft amends the Code of Civil Procedure, the Code of Administrative Court Procedure, the Law of Notariat, the Law of State Fees, the Law of State Legal Aid and the Code of Enforcement Procedure. In the future, according to technical changes, the land court which designated the protection measure will issue a certificate confirming the impact and extent of the recognition of the protection measure. The proof is corrected according to the draft, on the same basis and according to the same procedure as the Estonian case-law. The list of enforcement documents shall also include official foreign documents recognised and enforced by the Estonian court or not. The amendments to the State Fees Act establish a uniform rule on state fees for the recognition and enforcement of all Estonian judicial decisions and other enforcement documents in civil matters in another Member State pursuant to the European Union Regulation on the issuing of certificates or declarations. The Commission decided to close the first reading and set the deadline for the amendments at 4 p.m. on 29 October. For the second time, the Commission discussed this draft on 10 November 2014. Marko Pomerants, Jüri Morozov, Kalle Jents, Kalle Laanet, Mikhail Korb, Peeter Võsa, Valdo Randpere, Linnar Liivamägi and Raini Laide took part in the Commission meeting. There was no Igor Gräzin and Ken-Mart Vaher. Stella Johanson, Adviser to the Department of Private Law at the Legal Policy Department of the Ministry of Justice, was invited. The Commission's advisor announced that no amendments to the draft had been tabled. The Commission's consensual decision was to initiate an amendment excluding from the draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure and related amendments to other laws § 4 Amendment of the State Fees Act, as it is more appropriate to deal with this provision within the framework of the draft law on state fees pending in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The Commission decided to put the draft on the agenda for the plenary session on 2 December, to propose the termination of the second reading and to send it to the third reading when the second one is closed, by 10 December 2014. It was also proposed to put the draft to a final vote. All decisions were taken by the Commission in a consensual manner.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-02_U58	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. There is one amendment to the draft; it is proposed by the Legal Affairs Committee; the Riigikogu plenary agrees with the Commission. The second reading of Bill 718 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-02_U59	The next item is the second reading of draft law amending the Rescue Act, Police and Border Guard Act, Rescue Services Act and State Border Act 676 initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Kalle Laanet, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-02_U60	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As life is constantly changing, so is the bill. In the course of the procedure, there have been problems in society that need to be changed more and more, or improved, which is why the Committee on Legal Affairs has discussed this draft law on just five occasions. As a reminder, the Government of the Republic initiated the draft law amending the Rescue Act on 2 June and first reading passed on 8 October, the deadline for submitting amendments was 22 October. The Riigikogu did not receive any proposals for the draft, but in the course of the proceedings a number of additional proposals had come from the Ministry of the Interior. The Committee on Legal Affairs prepared the draft for a second reading at its meetings on 10 and 18 November and 1 December. At its meeting on 10 November, on the basis of a letter from the Ministry of the Interior, the Commission initiated 11 amendments to the draft, which would complement the amendments to the Police and Border Guard Act and the Rescue Services Act. At the meeting of 18 November and 1 December, it was decided to supplement the draft with an amendment to the State Border Act and the date of entry into force of the Act. As a result of the amendments initiated, the title of the draft law also changed. I shall go to the description of the amendments. According to the first proposal, the title of the draft was changed. The second proposal was technical and reworded in the preamble to § 1. Amendment 3 clarifies the concept of rescue. In practice, questions have arisen regarding the definition of rescue work, such as whether the resolution of a rescue event in coastal waters in subsection 5 (1) (1) of the Rescue Act is an activity which is also part of rescue work or is simply a marking in the wording of the Act that such a rescue event is resolved in cooperation between themselves. The legal definition of the demining work is also being improved; this change is intended to make things clearer. Amendments 4 and 5 designate the chief responsible for the resolution of sea rescue events, which will be the Police and Border Guard Board. The principle of faster assistance is also described, i.e. the unit closest to, and equipped with, the marine rescue event. Amendment 6 clarifies the terms of demining work, because rescue and demining work are slightly different things. The same opportunities and obligations will be provided for the demining work, such as the introduction of scrapping, excavation, cutting and containment, and the prevention of ditches, streams and rivers as a special measure of national supervision. Amendment 7 concerns the training of voluntary marine rescuers. According to the current law, there must be at least one year between level I and level II training, but this hampers volunteering. In order to improve the sector's development, a volunteer who wishes to be a savior must have the opportunity to complete level 1 and level 2 training faster and, if necessary, successively. The second degree must last at least 36 hours, acquire the knowledge and skills necessary to carry out the independent task, and the training shall be completed by calculation. Amendment 8 supplements the draft with § 2 (amendment of Police and Border Guard Act) and formulates the title and introductory phrase of the new section. Amendment 9 concerns the response to the sea rescue event and sets out the principle of faster assistance in the Police and Border Guard Act. Amendment 10 gives the Police and Border Guard Board the same rights for rescue work as the Rescue Board. Amendment 11 concerns the educational requirements for higher rescuers in the current Rescue Services Act. This technical change will bring educational requirements to the same principles as the Police and Border Guard Act, i.e. they will be introduced by a regulation of the Minister of the Interior. Amendment 12 is an amendment to the national border law. The objective is that the temporary check line referred to in § 22 of the State Border Act should be subject to the conditions and procedures laid down in the State Border Act for the marking, maintenance and surveillance, protection, crossing of external borders. Amendment 13 is to enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the State. The procedural decisions and proposals of the lead committee are as follows: On 18 November the Committee on Legal Affairs decided to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 2 December. As the Commission has supplemented the draft with amendments to the Police and Border Guard Act, the Rescue Services Act and the State Border Act, the Commission decided to propose to the Riigikogu plenary to interrupt the second reading of the draft. The deadline for submitting amendments was set by the Commission on 4 December at 10 a.m. At the same time, we also took some decisions in the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-02_U61	Thanks to the waitress, I guess. Any questions for the Committee on Legal Affairs? No, it's not. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. No call request. There have been 13 amendments to the draft, all tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs itself, and we will review them. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13. The second reading of the draft has been suspended and I will set the deadline of 4 December at 10 a.m. for the submission of 676 amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-02_U62	Our next item is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Act on the Implementation of the General Part of the Environmental Code Act, initiated by the Committee on the Environment, 781. The rapporteur is Rainer Vakra, Chairman of the Environment Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-02_U63	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Draft Act amending the Act implementing the General Part of the Environmental Code Act 781 was initiated by the Environmental Committee of the Riigikogu on 17 November 2014. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu appointed the Committee on the Environment as the lead committee. The Act implementing the General Part of the Environmental Code Act provides that Chapter 5 "Loading procedure' enters into force on 1 January 2015. However, this date does not take account of reality, as the specific laws directly related to this chapter cannot enter into force by that time. The draft does not envisage a specific date of entry into force, as it may not be possible to comply with it later. Chapter 5 of the General Part of the Environmental Code Act enters into force upon the entry into force of a special part of the Act, such as the Radiation Act, the Water Act, the Waste Act, the Air Protection Act or the Groundwater Act, where the entry into force of that Chapter is provided for. This means that the permit granting procedure will not enter into force on 1 January, but together with the first law in which it will be implemented. The draft has also been approved by the Government of the Republic. At the meeting of the Committee on the Environment on 20 November 2014, it was decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu on 2 December, to propose the termination of the first reading and to set the deadline of 5 December 2014 for the 781 amendments to the draft. All the Commission's decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-02_U64	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. First reading of Bill 781 is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 12 noon on 5 December. The sitting is adjourned. I'll see you tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 11.35 a.m.
