ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U1	Good fellows! Honourable Riigikogu! Honorable guests! Good morning. We will begin the session of the seventh working week of the 8th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. There's no call. Now, I'm asking for your help to make a presence check! 60 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; 41 are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U2	Let us begin the processing of today's agenda items. Our first item on the agenda is the debate on the key national issue of 'Employability reform and the situation of people with disabilities'. First of all, let me introduce the procedure for the forthcoming discussion that follows from § 153 of our Home and Working Procedures Act. Firstly, Urmas Kruus, Minister of Health and Labour, will present a presentation. I am not going to mention the length of the reports and the length of the questioning- answer for each performer individually, because for all it says: up to 15 minutes. After the presentation, Minister Kruus will have questions and answers. Secondly, the presentation by the expert, the Chairman of the Management Board of the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People, Monika Haukanõmme, is followed by questions and answers. Thirdly, a presentation by Tiia Sihver, the representative of the speakers, followed by questions and answers. Fourthly, the presentation by the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, Heljo Pikhof, as well as questions and answers. A member of the Riigikogu may submit up to two oral questions to all rapporteurs within the framework of this item. After the presentations and the answers to the questions, it is customary for us to open negotiations if we wish, and so will today. All members of the Riigikogu may speak. At the end of the discussion, the Riigikogu will not take a decision. I ask Urmas Kruuse, Minister of Health and Labour, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U3	Mr President, thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Honourable representatives of people with disabilities! Dear Estonians! One in ten of our working-age compatriots is a disability pensioner. One of the people filled with the Tallinn Song Festival Grounds, their share is higher only in Croatia. 'Inability to work pensioner', 'unable to work pensioner', these are signs that each day amplify the prejudices of many of us that these are people who are inability to work and it is perfectly normal that they do not work. We don't have to expect anything from them. Low expectations become self-fulfilling in society and each year thousands of people become a passive, lonely prophecy. But society only works with the support of active citizens. Shall we continue this way? In Estonia, the probability of a disability pensioner's life is that you are middle-aged unemployed, you live in Põlva, Ida-Viru or Jõgeva county, and you have health insurance thanks to the status of a disability pensioner. In Estonia, reduced capacity for work often means a one-way ticket to life-long unemployment, dependent on what society can offer in the form of support for support. It just so happens that directing a person to a support-dependency is getting rid of further responsibility for the state. Long-term unemployment can have a clear and direct impact on health, including mental health. Unemployment among pensioners has a very harsh price for society as a whole. Although incapacity pensioners receive disability pensions, their income is much lower than that of the rest of society and the risk of poverty is much higher. Shall we continue this way? Despite the fact that Estonia is among the leaders of the world's wealthiest countries in terms of the number of inability to work, we do not face this challenge alone. The OECD, the European Commission, our own Praxis and the National Audit Office have also analysed disability schemes and policies and found that in general, solutions that work has the following common role: work must also be worthwhile for long-term sick people and those with reduced working capacity, i.e. more profitable than unemployment. Inability to work cannot be more rewarding than unemployment, and in the future we will have to look at unemployment together with reduced capacity to work. Do you think it is by chance that as unemployment increases, the number of pensioners has also increased? At the same time, we have long been in a situation where the population is ageing. Even now, employers admit that there is not enough work to be done in certain sectors. However, it must be worthwhile and motivating for employers to employ people with reduced working capacity, and it is obvious that society in Estonia must support it financially in some respects. However, it is even more important for employers to be informed of the support opportunities that already exist and of the existence of loyal and valuable employees. Public authorities that assist people with reduced working capacity must be motivated to do this work with a clear thought and objective. The assessment of people's ability to work must be systematic, thought-out and focused on helping them to work, not on preventing them from working. Social and labour market providers, whether public or private, must be motivated to help their customers back into the labour market. How are we now? As a simple way out, we call a working-age person and, in an important part, a worker who wants to work a disability pension business, directing the support of a person with reduced working capacity to a one-way street according to statistics. These people should be treated as disabled people who have an individual need, not the same need for help. In some cases, adapting the workplace or a special computer program or display would be sufficient to enable these people to work and take responsibility for themselves. Responsibility for yourself gives a person dignity, the importance of which we may not be able to understand in this Chamber. The opportunity to work gives back the dignity that we have lost together because we have left people to support. I am not surprised that many representatives of disabled people's organisations do not believe that they and the country together are able to make the necessary changes, to take an active stand against this challenge together. Let's give up tagging people! We take each case individually, so each person is helped by his personal assistant at the unemployment fund. A person no longer has to twitch between different institutions in the system, but the whole country's system is concentrated behind the unemployment fund to help him work. Grants should help people to work, rehabilitation services and other social services should serve the purpose of access to employment. Employers must be informed and helped to recruit people with reduced working capacity. Or do we just keep doing this? If you answer this question like I do with a clear and resounding no, then we must bet not only on a change of attitude but also on money. In future, a person must receive the support, services, aids, rehabilitation from one institution, the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund, and it must be guaranteed with the necessary resources. The unemployment fund also provides services to employers. The Unemployment Insurance Fund has a unique competence to bring together jobseekers and employers, but it must be guaranteed with the necessary resources. From the European Union alone, we have planned to allocate EUR 180 million until 2020. Instead of a pension, we will pay a disability allowance. The purpose of the grant is not only to compensate for the damage to your pension's health, but also to support, in conjunction with the activity requirement, to prepare those who want to work, to stay on the labour market or to enter it. This is very simple: we will stop classifying people as inactive pensioners and their exile into support dependency! Experts will assess people's ability to work in the future and we will pay them a disability allowance. A person with a lack of ability to work will not lose anything, nor will a person with a reduced capacity to work seeking active employment lose anything. Most win in support. As a result of the assessment of working capacity, a person is either partially fit for work with a grant of EUR 180 or has a lack of working capacity of EUR 320. Disability benefit is higher than the current average disability pension. If the disability pension was higher before the new scheme was entitled to a disability allowance, the amount of the pension remains the same, provided that the incapacity for work is fixed for at least two years. If a person is able to work and if the state invests in rehabilitation and helping a person looking for a job, then we want him or her to be active in order to receive a disability allowance. Employment, participation in labour market measures, learning at any age (this was, by the way, one of the disability proposals, so that there is no age limit), raising children under 3 years of age and caring for disabled persons. They all mean fulfilling the activity requirement. The amount of the disability allowance is reduced at a certain level, starting from EUR 960. If a person earns more than 1280 euros, the state will not pay him or her a grant. According to the available statistics, most of the current disability pensioners do not earn more than 960 euros. Those are the facts. Just in case, I repeat again: people with a lack of working capacity do not lose support in size, do not lose an active job-seeking person with a reduced capacity for work, most win in size. Yes, the government also decided to support the change by committing itself to finding employment in the public sector for a thousand people with reduced capacity to work. However, I dare say that job creation is still largely on the shoulders of private sector employers in a market economy, because we lack taxpayers. We need the activity of employers, but we need to support it as a society with resources. In addition to adapting existing grants, premises and facilities, free technical assistance and the remuneration of the support person, we must also ensure that employers are motivated. This is simply an extremely important issue for us. We pay a salary allowance to the employer within 12 months of taking up employment if the unemployed person has a reduced capacity to work is put into service. In the case of temporary recruitment, the salary allowance shall be paid half the time of the employment relationship, but not more than 12 months. We pay travel allowance to a person with reduced working capacity if he or she participates in professional rehabilitation, as well as to an unemployed person when he or she participates in work placements, work placements, counselling, individual work implementation plans, participates in volunteer work, including leisure work. We support the guidance of future workers, such as the service of working with a support person. Of course, guidance and other supporting activities are based on the specific needs of the employee. We organise training and advice on how to support the work of people with reduced working capacity in companies. Given that, despite positive changes, coping with an open labour market can be a major challenge for many people with reduced working capacity, we help them with protected employment, which is intended for employment and employment in the initial period. It is primarily intended for people with severe, deep or permanent mental disorder, brain trauma or brain damage, blind or compounded and unable to work continuously due to reduced productivity and the need for continuous occupational and social guidance. The service usually lasts for up to two years. Throughout the country, people with reduced working capacity wishing to find work must have the same rights and similar access to services, i.e. we must support cooperation between municipalities in providing services. In the development of social services, we plan to support municipalities with EUR 50 million, including 7 million to promote home care, and 12 million to support informal carers and social transport services. We know that the purpose of social transport is to enable a person whose disability does not allow him or her to use a private or public vehicle to travel to work, study, or a place where he or she can use public services, especially by means of a means of transport suitable for his or her needs. For example, a person who is usually severely or deeply disabled due to a movement or visual impairment who cannot get on a wheelchair or see a bus cannot drive by himself. This service is also needed for children and adults with autism diagnosis, whose characteristics do not allow them to drive public transport. A family may not have a personal means of transport. We spend 2.4 million euros on day care for an elderly or disabled person, 9 million euros on personal assistance or support services. But, of course, support for local governments requires the activity of local governments. In fact, the best practices of our OECD friends are all based on one assumption: activity. Everything starts with the activity and motivation of the job seeker, which requires the state to deal with each individual case, the activity of creating jobs through support schemes for employers, a positive attitude towards developing and providing services to support people's needs, an active attitude from local authorities to ensure equal opportunities for all through the support provided and other means. Or do we just keep doing this? No! In order to make a decisive improvement in the situation of people who need to work and wish to work, I consider it necessary to ask for the support of all of you so that the Riigikogu can adopt a draft law on capacity support for work aimed at giving people with reduced working capacity the right and the opportunity to receive financial support from the unemployment fund and all the necessary help to get a job. The draft Act amending the Social Welfare Act and the Labour Market Services and Support Act provides rehabilitation services and tools to help people of working age with health impairment to work, helping them to get a job and keep a job. Let's go on the other way! We help people, we support activity, and we also support others more actively around us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U4	Minister, thank you. You have questions too. Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U5	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! I'm sorry to say that we didn't get any new hope from your report. They're all old-fashioned things. You didn't offer to solve any of the bottlenecks right now. Here's my question. This law is extremely unpopular among the people, I think, in the first or second place in this ranking. I don't remember society being against some laws like this, except for that law on cohabitation. Please tell me why this bill prepared by our Prime Minister in Cloth is so unpopular. Even then, it did not win the people's trust, but now you will continue this work. Today's papers are full of criticism, society is full of criticism, and disabled people's organisations are only criticising you. What's it about? Does this law not meet the expectations of the people?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U6	Thank you, Reverend Asker! Indeed, the preparation of this draft began several years ago and was motivated very clearly. I refer to the studies of Praxis and the National Audit Office, which showed that the current system is unsustainable, it does not help people to get a job, it does not help them feel dignified in society, and so we need to change something. I've only been able to be a minister for a short time. I have now travelled all over Estonia to introduce this reform and have met representatives of organisations of people with disabilities as well as just people who are pensioners. I have sensed that people have had a certain fear that the positive side of the reform has not reached them as well as we expected. There are all kinds of questions. Will my disability allowance be withdrawn if I go under the unemployment fund? Will my pension be reduced if I have been a disability pensioner for three years? Jne. Similar questions have frightened people, and we have had to deal with it. When we sent these drafts out of the Ministry, one of my messages to my good colleagues in the Riigikogu and to society as a whole was that this reform will help to launch a very important debate in Estonia on tolerance, which concerns our attitude in the sense that we consider it right that there are 40,000 50,000 people whose fate we absolutely do not care about. I am very happy that this debate has begun, and I very much hope that it will help.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U7	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U8	Thank you. Mr. Minister! As Chairman of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, I cannot accept the way in which this issue and this draft law have been dealt with. You spoke about tolerance and attitude, but unfortunately, an elementary culture of inclusion has not taken into account the views of disabled people's organisations and the core of their criticism. It is not possible, in principle, to push through such a large part of society by means of force. Today's society, a normal society just can't do that. Can we clearly confirm today in this Chamber that yes, we are making a different cultural shift here, we are taking time off and we are finding a solution to the very fundamental and central problems of disability organisations in dealing with this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U9	Thank you, Honourable Asker. I agree that inclusion is very important. We have taken the involvement of a good colleague, Helmen Hunter, very seriously. If we look at this timetable, how many meetings, how many meetings we have had, how many trips have been in Estonia during this period, we can say that we have tried to maximise ourselves. When I looked at the work schedule that I received from the Ministry after I became a minister, I also saw a lot of different working groups there in order to prepare for this reform. As far as the proposals that have been put forward are concerned, from the moment these two drafts were expelled from the Ministry, I think the Committee on Social Affairs has done a very significant job. Very many meetings have been held under the leadership of Heljo Pikhof and have been productive. This actually means that Parliament is a place where discussions are held. If some members of the Riigikogu have assumed that ministries or government would treat Parliament as a rubber stamp, they have now received a different signal. As far as I am concerned, more than 30 amendments are being discussed in the Commission, which are very important and fundamental and are based on what representatives of organisations of people with disabilities have considered to be right and necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U10	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U11	Thank you. Mr. Minister! Your story was very, very optimistic, but I don't see why. After all, most of the money for this reform goes to assessing the ability to work, employing 500 or more people in an unemployment fund, recalculating benefits, and selecting some people. But in fact, the key problem is helping, rehabilitation. These amounts, which you mentioned, are quite small, and they also came up in the Commission. Involvement of municipalities is also a key issue at the moment. We have not created uniform standards for municipalities to guarantee these services, nor has there been any additional money. Where do jobs come from? These are the main issues to which we have not received an answer. You are saying such a general story, why do you not deal with specific issues that are repeatedly put forward by people with disabilities?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U12	Honourable member of the Riigikogu! Fortunately, we are dealing with very specific issues and we are talking about rehabilitation and aids. I find it unacceptable that people have to wait two years in line to receive rehabilitation services. If these two drafts become law, we'll change the situation. This means that if a person has been assigned rehabilitation or a program to restore his or her active attitude to life or ability to participate in the labour market, he or she must be able to do so very quickly through this programme or rehabilitation. If we're talking about aids, we're in a situation where we're just running out of money at the end of the year. From now on, we will also be able to provide aid to people for jobs and they can be obtained quickly. So we're expanding the range of service providers. However, it is a completely wrong picture that the money that is intended to provide services to people is eaten up by officials. Service providers are not civil servants. At the same time, we must admit to ourselves that if we are serious about dealing with disability pensioners, people with disabilities and helping them to integrate into society in such a way that they all feel dignified, then this can only be done by approaching cases individually. This means that case managers working at the unemployment fund deal with a particular person, not an unidentified person. I will give just one example. The proposal of disabled people is that the experts who go to work at the unemployment fund should be "experiential advisers," the people who are from among themselves. This is a very important observation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U13	Thank you. The next questioner is Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U14	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! That, of course, sounds good when the minister says: I think it is unacceptable and blah-blah-blah. Is it acceptable that the costs of Estonia's support targeted at the poor amount to 0.1% of GDP? At the OECD average of 2%, this is virtually invisible support. Is it acceptable that Estonia is among the latter in terms of its public health indicators and that the health of the poor population is dramatically worse than that of other countries? Is it acceptable that Estonia is one of the few countries in Europe where people without health insurance do not receive medical care and where long-term unemployment is penalised by the loss of medical care? I am not quoting my thoughts to you at the moment; this is a letter from the Estonian Patients' Association. Do you have any other problems to deal with? Don't these things ever work out?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U15	Thank you, Reverend Asker! It was a very long line of opinions on what state we are in. But if we look at the general state platform and also the activities of the current cabinet, then the government has clearly defined the task of combating poverty. For example, when increasing child benefits, international experience has been taken into account; we also want to support the ability of risk families to cope. If you are talking about health insurance, we also have access to emergency care for persons without health insurance, and no person in need will be deprived of this assistance. But what's our problem? The longer-term problem is that the number of people who work who pay health insurance amounts is decreasing. This knowledge should warn us and frighten us if we are only talking about increasing subsidies. We must use subsidies to help people get jobs, improve their quality of life, increase their income and improve their ability to cope. Unfortunately, there are also many examples that people who do well travel abroad and do not have a health insurance contract. These cases are confirmed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs every week, and then it is not about whether a person has money but about his attitudes and perceptions. I agree that the current government has made a very important issue one of its priorities, but we must realise that success can only be achieved if our economy develops in cooperation with social welfare.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U16	Thank you. Please, Siret Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U17	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. It has been said that the country should set an example and employ more people with disabilities themselves. The first example should be the unemployment fund, which plans to recruit 500 new workers in connection with the employment capacity reform. How much of these workers will be disabled people?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U18	Thank you, Reverend Asker! When we're talking about case managers, the unemployment fund has planned to employ a little over 400. This plan is based on a proposal made by organisations of people with disabilities. They need people who have time to deal with them, and this 400 has been paid off on the basis of the expected number of people entering the unemployment fund. Another important aspect relates to the fact that people with relevant personal experience will certainly also be employed. It's called experience counseling. The third important objective is greater specialisation: a certain group of people will deal with the specific needs of people. In this way, they can be provided with a qualitatively better service. To say exactly today that there will be 10 or 12 of them would be premature, but the principle we have agreed, and I am very pleased about that.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U19	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U20	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. The aim is noble in itself, but I do not see that this draft will improve the situation of people with disabilities. For me, the key issue is jobs and business motivation. Unemployment pension is most frequent in South-East Estonia. It must also be acknowledged that unemployment is quite high in south-eastern Estonia. In Võrumaa, for example, unemployment has increased by 10% over the year and already reaches 17%. How is it possible to find additional jobs for these people in this situation, and what is the entrepreneur's motivation to prefer a disabled person to those healthy people who are looking for daily work? Where do you see the solution? Where are these jobs? After all, if there were jobs, there wouldn't be so many people looking for work in this register.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U21	Thank you, Honourable Asker. During this couple of months, for example, the Astangu Rehabilitation Centre has created a queue of employers who want training on how people with reduced working capacity could be employed. This is a very important sign in this short period of time. Another important thing that we must take into account, and which I mentioned in my speech, is that over 50,000 people will leave the labour market in the next ten years. Today, we have nearly 60,000 people, of whom nearly 70% are willing to enter the labour market if they are provided with certain supportive services. It gives quite a logical basis for believing that we can use these people according to their abilities. The company has very simple choices. If there is not enough working hands, if we do not contribute together to the training and development of the workforce, then either the company must be shut down, the migrant labour force must be imported or the company must be moved from Estonia. I think it is our duty first to implement all Estonian people according to their abilities and then to use other solutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U22	Thank you very much. The time allowed for the questions and answers set on the agenda is exhausted. We thank Urmas Kruus for his presentation and answers! Next, please contact Monika Haukanõmme, Chairman of the Board of the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U23	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Members of the Riigikogu, good listeners! Thank you very much for this opportunity to stand before you today. Although, as you might imagine, today I stepped on the speaker's desk with very conflicting feelings. Why am I still standing before you today and speaking as the guardian of the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People? Probably because this House is a unique representative organisation or guardianship organisation in Estonia, which brings together a large number of different people with disabilities and their associations. All their expectations and needs in relation to the reform of working capacity are similar in a broad picture, but in each case, health damage and disability-specific. The views of 46 member organisations and their people are not always identical and consensually matched, but an approach satisfactory to the parties has mostly been found using inclusive governance. But if you don't find it, then it's not bad, because it's democracy. Yes, it is true, the House does not represent all the organisations of disabled people who operate in Estonia, nor all those who have signed the petition, as it is not, for example, associations of disabled persons in the case of an association of carers and a representative organisation of patients. It's that simple. In view of the above, I would like to pay tribute to the Board of the Riigikogu, which made such a precedent decision and promised the remote control Tiia Sihver as the representative of the petition. Without him, a lot of people would have missed their voice today. In recent times, the media have given the impression that there is water and competition between the picket team or petitioners, the Chamber and the organisations of the disabled. That is not true, we are working very closely together and we are only happy about that. We use different methods to achieve our goals, but, to sum up, these objectives are complementary. But let us get to the subject. Every society has people with disabilities and their number is on average within 10%. They are therefore a significant number of people whose social inequalities are reflected in lower incomes, low community involvement and difficult access to other resources. Most of these people experience obstacles in their daily lives, whether they are access to social services or other services, such as transport, housing, information, buildings. Imagine, for example, a situation where a good childhood friend comes to visit you from a distance from Brussels and invites you to a cafe. But you can't go, for example, because there's a bullet limit for disabled transport, or there's no one to help you out of your home, or you have to cross two steps to get to the cafeteria. Or if you can't go, for example, because your device has worn off and it takes six months or maybe two years to get a new one. How would you feel? Are you the masters of your life? Can you make self-evident decisions? You can't, because you're very affected by earthly problems, and you're never going to meet a friend. There's a little sadness in the soul, but what can I do about it? Estonia has put its hands on all the most important international legislation and development documents in this area, with which the state promises to contribute consistently to improving the situation of people with disabilities. And as our constitution says, people with disabilities are under the special care of the state and local authorities. As Professor Triin Hatelem said at the mission conference 'Right to Dignity' weeks ago, the issue of people with disabilities has so far been 'encouraged'. This means that no matter where we start looking for a solution, we still come to the point that we can't, that there isn't, that there is no money, that there is no people. But the problems of the disabled are earthly. Lack of access to medical care, insufficient disability pensions and low benefits for decent living, expensive medicines, lack of support services, high family care burden, increased cost of living, an inaccessible living environment and, of course, always an exclusionary attitude to society, although today no one dares to admit it openly. So far, there has been a downward attitude and the knowledge that nothing will change, that the only way to survive is to bear the cross. The municipality says there's no money and no help. Well, we can take it. The state does not find money to increase social benefits for people with disabilities. I would like to remind you that some of the grants are valid from 2000, ranging from EUR 12 to EUR 80. Well, we can take it. What if the grants do not allow the objectives set by law to be met? Caregivers receive care allowance for 24-hour year-round work without leave of EUR 19 per month. Let's bear it. You feel humiliated when you go to get support, you don't get a job, and so on. We are angry, we are offended, we are unhappy, we are demanded, we are rejected, but we suffer and understand the difficult situation, because there is nothing else left and the state's financial situation is known. But now we are in a situation where there is both political will and financial readiness to bring about change and to implement what is planned. People have had hope. You can if you really want to. If, just a few years ago, we were in a situation in Estonia where the coverage of disability topics was an exception rather than a rule, these people did not exist for society, then now we have reached the other end of this icy frozen indifference scale: not a day goes by when a facet of disability issues is not reflected. Thus, during the last two and a half years, at least one significant change has taken place as a result of the labour capacity reform. Society has become more aware of people with disabilities, but more importantly, the self-consciousness and dignity of people with disabilities have grown, and I actually have the same rights and I do not have to suffer in the cross, I have rights like any other person, and I can stand up for them. Yes, the work capacity reform is probably a topic that fuels passion on every level, from a single disabled person living in a forest to the Riigikogu. The idea of reform is not bad, and there is no doubt about the need to change the existing situation. It is as if there is a social agreement between the various parties, although yes, the viewpoints and motivations are actually different. For more than two years now, the target group of the reform has contributed to the preparation of a law on working capacity support, but also to the wider reform, bringing out bottlenecks in different places and keeping pace, expressed expectations, explained needs and made recommendations on how best to organise things. The word'reform', I looked at what it really means. The CSF says it's something big, it's a reorganization, an upgrade. It is also a change made by the state, in which the old laws, the institutions and, which are very important, the practice, will be replaced by a new one. Work capacity reform must be seen as a whole, without neglecting areas outside the social security system which are of considerable importance for the final outcome of the reform. Without seeing the whole and putting different issues on the same table, there is no way to succeed. But so far, we have focused too much on one bill. We have not really talked about other aspects of the reform, such as preventive activities, access to education for people with disabilities, employers' motivations, health care services, the burden on carers and the attitude of society. There are two bills on your desk today. Indeed, the draft Employment Allowance Act has been conducted over a long period of time and the target group has had the opportunity to contribute and contribute. It has to be said that there are really many proposals on the draft that have been taken into account. At the same time, it must be said that not all ideas have, unfortunately, been supported. Let me give you an example: a person does not have to be punished by withdrawing even a small amount of support if he or she violates the activity requirements imposed even once. After all, the state now says that people of working age with partial employment are obliged to be active. But has the State sufficiently created the necessary preconditions to meet this requirement? The backbone of the reform is the assessment of working capacity. Looking for people's strengths is an up-to-date approach to enforcing client work and certainly more appropriate than the current health damage-centric approach. But none of the methodologies, when it's transferred from another country, may be quite good. We need time to seriously pilot and validate the experiences of other countries, and the point is that this has not been done seriously so far. That's one of the reasons why people are critical. This changes everything to in terms of support, it changes a person's income, it tells whether you need to be active or not. For every person, every euro is worth gold, and people with disabilities are very vulnerable target groups that can be isolated in society with very small and very simple steps. Unfortunately, the draft law, the Social Welfare Act and the Employment Services and Benefits Act, which has reached the second Riigikogu, regulates the provision of social and occupational rehabilitation services and the allocation of technical assistance facilities, cannot be commended. We are not sure that we understand what this really means. At the same time, it is regrettable to recognise that the third draft, which was also scheduled to be included in the package of reform laws at the start of the reform, is completely stuck and has not moved forward from the Ministry. I am talking about a draft to improve the quality and accessibility of social services provided by local authorities. But it is this bill that is key to launching the reform. On the question of when to move forward with this draft, I was given a reply in the Committee on Social Affairs: in spring 2015. Unfortunately, such a course of action does not give rise to any assurance that the country has a great will to move forward quickly with an important draft. It is easy to get back to the so-called enchanted question, because the state cannot intervene in the autonomy of the local government and, in fact, it is already their task. This is a question of such a long history that any credibility has been removed from the arguments in question. The ball is rolled from corner to corner, but these people should be under the special care of the state and local government. While the local government says that they do not have the necessary funds to provide services, it is the task of the state to help those in need of help in the light of European social policy. It is the responsibility of the State to organise the provision of services, because people must not suffer from the fact that, unfortunately, one municipality is unable to provide services. For people with disabilities, however, the services provided by municipalities are a key issue for accessing and staying in the labour market. Without significant improvements in the availability of social services such as disability, support person, personal assistant, sign language interpreter and other services, there is a very high risk that the right objectives set out in the law will remain only a dream. The weakest link in the reform is therefore the local government and the services it provides or does not provide. Clearly, there is a need for strong state intervention and decision-making on which services must necessarily be guaranteed by the state or local government and which are recommended. Perhaps in the future, it will be wise to bring certain services to national level if, for example, they do not make sense, based on the principle of subsidiarity, to provide them at municipal level. An example is the sign language translation service. Another issue of pain will most likely be finding jobs, given the nature of our labour market and labour market policies. Employers must be motivated. But right now we don't see the mechanism that motivates them. People of working age who are able and willing to work are already largely doing so because disability pensions do not guarantee a lifeable life. Those who can already work, even without coercive measures. Disabled people who are not finally discouraged want to work. But once again, this requires, for example, the creation of a gradual movement. First of all, from the labour market to the labour market or from school to the labour market. If a person has completed his or her education, went to four different schools, because there is nothing else to do, you cannot work, then in order to avoid staying at home on the edge of the bed, he or she should first be able to go to a protected job, from there to a supported job, to an open labour market, etc. Work capacity reform has a global perspective. And finally. Disabled people are willing to contribute to improving the situation. We all understand that we can't go on like this anymore, we need to change. We want the money used to prepare and implement the reform to be spent in a purposeful way, but it must not be rushed, it must take time. All the more so because now everyone feels pressure and there is no certainty about what will happen. And as the day goes on, the more the opinion is that the stated objective of the law is intended to be enforced by 2016 is unrealistic, as the prerequisites for the success of the reform are not actively addressed. I wish you the wisdom to make the right choices and decisions so that we can get from a welfare approach to a welfare-based approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U24	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. The question is, once again, 15 minutes. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U25	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Looking at disputes about the reform of working capacity or the so-called 'work capacity reform', one of the statements that sounded is that it cannot be postponed. It will not be possible to analyse the reform further, because then we will lose the European Union's funding or at least this funding will be significantly reduced. As your expert, can you tell me at which meetings with the European Commission have representatives of the European Union expressed that better preparation and more thorough analysis of draft legislation on the reform of working capacity are in any way contrary to European Union documents or to any agreements within the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U26	Thank you for your question. It seems to me that I am not the right answer to this question. The Minister can still say that. As those who stand for the target group and those who defend their interests, we sense that this claim is being used a little bit as a method of intimidation. We don't know exactly if it's as bad as they're trying to make it look. If we are told whether you do not want reform, if you do not want some EUR 300 million in this system over the next seven years, of course we do, that is not the question. This reform is a unique opportunity to make use of the European Social Fund's money to develop services and change the system. But we want this to be done correctly so that there is more opportunity to use these funds specifically for the provision of services. That's what we want. We also understand that some money must be used to create a proper system, but most must not go there. Of course, when it comes to the European Social Fund, we are concerned. We are concerned that, to this day, we have not seen a strategy for exiting the reform, which will tell us what will happen in 2020. Are these services, then, public services or local government services, which have been launched with the support of the European Social Fund through the reform, provided in the same volume after the end of European Union funding? Will the State take over their provision? We don't know.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U27	Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U28	Thank you! Dear Mrs Haukanõmm! Would it help to ease the tensions around this reform by not immediately overcoming the reform process, so that all people with disabilities are moved under the unemployment fund, but that such a test period is used as an interim phase? For example, a test group 1 would be from the periphery and the other would be from some of the attraction centers. Then it would be clear whether there really are those employers and those jobs where disabled people can apply?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U29	Thank you for your question. Of course, such testing is a natural part of itself, without it, it is impossible to imagine a transition to a new system. We have been told repeatedly in different places that it is being tested, tried, validated, but it has not been done on a very large scale. After all, you have actually pointed out that people have different needs in different regions. We cannot appreciate the same person who lives in Tallinn and, for example, the 50-year-old epileptic lady who lives in Pärnu County 50 kilometres from the city where she does not have any transport. Its ability to participate in the labour market is completely different from that of a city person, although its capacity may be the same. Therefore, such very serious testing, very serious consideration of issues is very important. After all, we do not want to get into a situation where people feel that their situation has actually deteriorated considerably. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U30	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U31	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Mrs Haukanõmm, first of all, thank you very much for your very expert presentation. § 28 of the Constitution states that persons with disabilities are under the special care of the State, which means that when changes are made in this area, special attention should be paid to the involvement of interest groups and their positions. Involvement not only means that there is a right to be heard, but also the right to influence laws and practices that will later apply. I'm asking hypothetically. If you were sitting on this side of the hall and you had the right to vote on the so-called 'work capacity reform', given the current content and form of the drafts and all the business that you would press the color button, would it be the green side button or the red counter button?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U32	Thank you for your question. Quite an intriguing question. What would I do? I'd do it to take a moment right now. This does not mean that reform must be stopped, reform is needed. But if I were you, I'd demand the missing drafts on my desk. This is what is considered to be the biggest deficit of this reform, that, alongside these two drafts, there are no legislative acts regulating the quality and availability of local government services, a package to increase the motivation of employers, as well as legislation on accidents at work and occupational diseases. We should have more drafts ahead of us than we do now. The reform in this is not two drafts.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U33	Thank you. Please, Rein Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U34	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I, too, thank you for drawing attention to these problems. But my question concerns the fact that we have already confirmed in several documents that public services must be accessible to everyone in Estonia. However, we note that they are not available everywhere; the availability of public services varies. It's the same here. The assumption is that these services must be obtained across Estonia, but we know that there are very many differences. There are nearly five times as many people with disabilities in some counties as in others, and the difference may be nearly four times the difference between those who lose their ability to work. This is where the moment of regionality comes in, employers come in. Have you discussed and see this problem, that more work should also be done regionally so that these services can be obtained across Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U35	Thank you for your question. Of course, as I said, we have come back to the enchanted question. I did not want to point out here today with a single sentence that we need administrative reform to successfully launch the reform. But it's the same question. It is true that we must start making regional policy decisions. So far, it has been based on the fact that the country does not really support job creation very actively. With regard to this reform, we must begin to change it. The state must also support employers to bring jobs closer to people. If the bus goes once a day, leaves at 7:00 a.m., and gets back at 9:00 a.m., then it makes sense to consider how the person gets to work, who can actually work. Whether the job comes to him or the person goes to the job, both options are possible. It's just a matter of considering which one is more reasonable. The Netherlands is considered to be the best example of Europe in creating a disability system. In the Netherlands, it has been stressed that regional policy must be taken very much into account, for example, the state must take steps to create good public transport. It is actually within the power of the state and there would be one less problem because people can get to work.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U36	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U37	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, In your report, you referred to existing laws that are not working very well. As far as you know, have analyses been carried out as to why current laws supporting the livelihood and access to employment of disabled people are not working? Should we not start by supplementing or otherwise amending the existing laws so that they can work and help people with disabilities even before we embark on another huge goal?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U38	I totally agree! In my speech, I actually emphasised the same aspect. When it comes to the services provided by the local government, these have already been the responsibility of the municipality for the last 10 to 15 years. Why isn't it working? I haven't really read that kind of analysis, but it would be pretty good for me if you had it on the table right now if everything had been analyzed very accurately. Maybe there's an analysis somewhere, but I haven't seen it. I fully agree with you, there are quite good laws in Estonia, in line with the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, and we seem to meet all the requirements, but we do not actually comply with them. We do not comply with the laws we have passed. This situation needs to be changed. So if you're asking if any tests have been carried out, I hope they're out there somewhere, maybe they just haven't caught up with me.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U39	Tõnis Kõiv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U40	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Thanks for the report. I really liked it. In my opinion, solidarity in society is very important and one part of it is the willingness of society to accept a different person alongside it. People with disabilities are different, special, but in fact, each person is special in its own way and therefore important. The work of people with disabilities is certainly not coercive and cannot be. But it is in all our interests that we create better opportunities and prerequisites for getting these special people to work, because in a solidarity society, every member of society has a role to play. Everyone wants to make their contribution, and I want us all to have more tolerance and tolerance to notice and recognise some of the people's speciality, so that a somewhat repulsive attitude disappears once and for all. Please name the five things that will improve thanks to the work capacity reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U41	What gets better? I think that the first thing that has already happened is that we have become more tolerant and that our attitude towards people with disabilities has changed. This is, in fact, the result of the reform launched. Before that, they were just out there, but we didn't talk about it. It will change that all people with disabilities who are ready to go to work, who want to go to work, hopefully these opportunities will be created. According to these drafts, the availability of a new national social service, i.e. occupational rehabilitation, should be significantly improved. We were told that the European Social Fund would be used for this and that there would be no queues. In addition, it was promised that all people of working age who wanted to go to work but needed help to do so would receive it. When I asked you how the queues are, we know that there are very long queues at the moment, we were told that there are no queues thanks to European Social Fund money. It's also positive if that happens. I don't know if there were four or five positive changes, but I'm sure there are. I cannot say that everything is wrong with this law, certainly not. We need a change. But the question is, how do we get to it? We must realise that only these two drafts are not reform. Please take the other drafts on the table.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U42	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U43	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mrs. Hawkhamm! Can't say it's all bad in these drafts. The reform has been working on for a long time; during the previous ministerial term, it started to be dealt with; during the previous minister's term it was continued; now there are already two ministers; the work is continuing. Hundreds of officials have smeared so much paper that a acre [hectares of wood] have gone into the forest. Voices have been screamed hoarsely, and all this trambler ends with the fact that jobs are created by the private sector and services are triggered by the municipality. Please tell me whether, in order to meet these two objectives, it is absolutely necessary to turn upside down the whole existing system. Do you need all that drum and whistle? Perhaps it would have been possible to improve the situation of people with disabilities and those who are partially unable to work, even in the existing legal space, if simply people were to do their job as they should.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U44	Thank you for your question. Sometimes it makes sense to start off with a clean slate when the old one can't be repaired. Looking at these enchanted questions, I feel like we need a restaurant. This restaurant would be needed to change existing practices, and changing existing practices without external pressure is known to be relatively difficult. If we wanted to do good, we could, of course, continue the same way, but that would mean that we all change our behaviour. I believe that under pressure from external force, we will change our behaviour better and faster.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U45	Dear Chairman of the Board of the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People, Mrs Monika Haukamm, thank you very much for your presentation! Thank you very much for your answers. I now ask Mrs Tiia Sihver, the representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu's speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U46	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Members of the Riigikogu! Ministers! Good people! I will begin my presentation by quoting Tiit Papi, Chairman of the Estonian Kurt League: 'Today's situation reminds me of a long time ago when I drove a car in Tallinn and did not give way to an operational car without distinguishing marks, and I did not notice that other cars started to signal me with lights. I immediately pulled the road aside, and out of the next car, men in angry faces jumped out of a uniform who started yelling at me. They yelled until I could tell them I really couldn't hear. And then they left me, and they blew me away. " At the moment, communication with us disabled people is similar. We keep talking and talking and talking, but it seems to be on deaf ears. I represent 20 associations and organisations here today who launched a public-initiative petition eight weeks ago, asking for and demanding a new plan for the reform of the working capacity and its rational processing. In addition to the petition, more than 3500 individuals signed up to the organisations that initiated it. We submitted a petition to the board of Riigikogu in the form of a collective address in order to realise the rights granted by the law in force in April this year to participate in the better organisation of social life when citizens see that they are not satisfied with the situation, and they have ideas on how to improve the state of affairs. Our request for a debate to be held on the agenda of the Riigikogu as a matter of national importance in order to think about the crooked reform and make it a decisive correction was the last desperate attempt to intervene in a process that concerns us as disabled people and our families very personally, but also in society as a whole. After all, these are problems that depend on the state of public finances and the economy at all. Honourable ambassadors! Do you know that for the biggest social policy reform of the decade, this is the expression of the Ministry of Social Affairs, there is neither a concept nor a plan to develop it? The explanatory memorandum to the draft law which is now in the Riigikogu, which is awaiting a second reading, states a justification: these basic documents have not had time to develop, as the draft procedure is urgent. This urgency will soon be three years old. Now, at last, the day will come when we will be with you in this honourable Chamber, where the debate on the reform of working capacity will take place as a matter of national importance as a result of our public appeal. However, our question is: what is the debate? The Committee on Social Affairs announced today, on 6 November, a debate on a nationally important issue on 23 October. On 28 October, however, we received a clear signal from the representatives of both coalition partners that the draft on the reform will be adopted already in November. In the morning radio news of the ERR on 29 October, the President of the Social Committee, Heljo Pikhof, confirmed the same, who said that in the meantime the drafts have been substantially improved, they should now be suitable for the target groups, and he will not see any obstacles to their adoption. Now we ask, Honourable MPs, what are we doing here today? Are we gonna play blind again, lower the tension, talk and yawn, let the third sector blow off steam, and write down a little tick that there's been another high-level involvement, and then we're gonna spread out the bill to make laws? Good self-deciders! If you didn't run the country but run the car industry, would you start a new production line if you knew in advance that it was faulty, not properly designed and that new cars leaving the factory should be repaired immediately? But this is what the esteemed leading politicians are telling us, how we do not understand, how laws must finally be passed, and then there will be time to change, correct and supplement them. Would you go to an auto shop that sells such vehicles and buy one from there? By launching a work capacity reform in its current form, you are generously contributing to the feeding of the country's bureaucratic machine, to the endless reproduction of work and activities, to the perpetuation of the work and pay flows of your colleagues and public officials. Only there's one but. So to speak, mistakes begin to appear in the course of the work. The only way to get the information needed to correct them is to analyse the mistakes that have already been made. These mistakes, however, are beginning to appear on humans. The material will, of course, be abundant. It is planned to carry out 55,000 assessments per year, and the number of people reaching the system will quickly reach a figure of six. It is therefore known in advance that the improvement of the reform will be a pre-planned devastation of the lives of a very large number of people with disabilities, as well as carers and guardians, over the next few years, but perhaps also decades. Just as it has been on a smaller scale in the national rehabilitation system for a dozen years. The last one, by the way, hasn't been fixed. Experiments with people, however, fall within the sphere of ethics, not just finance. We can invest money foolishly, and then we just lose it, testing people usually has to be applied for permission from the Ethics Committee before the beginning of the trials. Do you really believe that you 101 people, who are employed by voters, have the moral right to legitimise the two of you in the most obviously incomprehensible details with the approval of the bill, a widespread and dangerous social experiment on more than 100,000 people who have already been hit hard by hard life? If we add family members to the disabled, the planned experiment will affect nearly a quarter of the Estonian population. We will not tire of repeating that this reform is doomed to failure until there is a uniform availability of social, support, care services for disabled people and families who care for them throughout Estonia, until there is no appropriate incentives and incentives for employers and incentives for social entrepreneurship until there is no solution to the plan for developing education, rehabilitation, aids and other important support measures, not to mention the unprepared cost-benefit analysis and the implementation plan for reform. Dear ambassadors and co-thinkers! Let us now see how we have been involved, how we have been taken into account in the planning of this almost three-year 'rapid' reform. I could talk about it for a long time, but because of the lack of time, I'll be brief. In spring 2012, the development of the employment capacity reform was launched, and the Minister of Social Affairs was Hanno Pevkur and disabled people were also involved. On 11 December 2012, Minister Taavi Rõivas took office in the Ministry of Social Affairs. After Minister Pevkuri left the Ministry, other officials responsible for the work capacity reform began to leave the Ministry. See the explanatory notes on the drafts, they are full of the names of the officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the unemployment fund, to which a few words have been added 'disappeared from office'. Involvement began in a new way. Disability organisations were given the opportunity to carry out projects on employment. The Ministry organized numerous information days, where it was possible to pass on its messages to information specialists who, unfortunately, did not have the answers to the substantive questions. Their role was merely to give an overview of how well everything is and to hear statements of resentment and dissatisfaction from people. This confirmed that the target groups had been informed and that everyone's concerns had been heard. The drafting of the Employment Allowance Act and the amendment of the related laws followed their course throughout 2013. When we had accidentally heard that something was going on and asked for documents, they were sent from the Ministry of Social Affairs for a long time, but always with the comment that this was a working document and it was not to be shared, much less the public. All in all, we can say that we could read things from time to time, but dialogue was not born because our opinions were not really wanted. The events will continue this year. In the Information System of the Government's Drafts, the draft Act on Employment Capacity Allowance even passed two rounds of coordination at the beginning of the year, which remained behind the change of government, and the second was completed in the beginning of the summer. Since 26 March, there are two ministers in the Ministry of Social Affairs, which exactly leads the reform, which is not clear to us, but it only makes the situation worse. We studied the new version of the draft by means of the Government Bill Information System, the EIS, and we were really disappointed. It seemed incredible that the government approved it and so forwarded the incomplete draft to the Riigikogu. Target groups have been trying to be involved for a long time, hundreds of people have been working and providing help for hundreds of hours, giving guidance on how and what to change, but it has not been taken into account. I'd really like to think I can't count, but I can't. The target groups have been very open in their work on the reform and have proposed a large number of amendments, but none of them are in principle taken into account. So it remains to be said that there is no wish to count. On 11 June the representative organisations of the types of disability received the floor for the first time in the public session of the Social Committee of the Riigikogu. The reformers talked about almost the whole session, which everyone already knew, and there were seven minutes left for us to get involved. Today we have been given the word 15 minutes, which is twice seven minutes, which makes two inclusions and 60 seconds left. Next, the draft of the Employment Capacity Allowance Act went to first reading on the Riigikogu's agenda without amendment. So it became clear that we now need to involve ourselves. I hope you know what started next. According to several people who wrote to us, high officials began to give instructions. According to these instructions, the leaders of the organizations of the disabled began to be admonished and intimidated. The main message was: If you participate in a pictique, you will be deprived of the support of an association or institution. Why am I bringing it out here? In order to be able to state what forms democratic governance can take. More than 150 people were present on the 17th of June. Working July and August passed, hundreds of pages of drafts with explanatory notes and annexes had to be receded, hoping that perhaps time would be taken off and reform would be set on a reasonable footing. As we all know, it didn't happen. On 15 September, we held a press conference on 'Employability reform', where people with disabilities and their representatives gave media people an overview and explanation of the work capacity reform. The press conference planned for an hour turned out to be two hours and, contrary to politicians, the media understood where there were shortcomings and what was the content of our criticism. On 21 October, 12 disabled persons and their support organisations sent a message to the Ministry of Social Affairs that they no longer intend to contribute their time and volunteer work to the development of the coalition's founding goodwill agreement, which seeks to alleviate tensions around the reform of working capacity. We sent our decision in writing to the ministers. Do you know the conclusion the Ministry made? This is just one example of how the Ministry uses the method of turning words on their heads. A piece of their press release says: the Ministry regrets such a statement and invites all parties to continue a constructive debate. It is only a constructive debate that we have been waiting for! So where is it? As it became clear to everyone that the reform agenda could not be repaired with cosmetic improvements, but the government still wants to launch a reform with holes quickly, the Ministry of Social Affairs was called upon to assist politicians in concluding a treaty of good will that was familiar with the medical strike. Although the bargain of goodwill with medical personnel two years ago has not been met for almost any of the points, it helped to blow off steam during the medical strike and to give the impression that there is constructive cooperation with the target groups. In our opinion, we gave a clear message: the real aim of the cooperation agreement is to silence disabled people and their representatives, similar to what happened just two years ago when healthcare workers' strikes were silenced. If everything is as good as they tell us, then there is no answer to the question of why they are currently solving problems by means of a national mediator.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U47	Madam waitress, unfortunately, the questions are now on the table. Mikhail Stalnukhin, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U48	Thank you, Mr President. I'd rather have a suggestion. This week, we've already had this thing that a waitress talked over 20 minutes and your colleague sat on the remote and calmly let him finish the conversation. I don't think anyone in the hall would resist if we let the waitress finish her speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U49	Of course I'll have the thought stopped. Please, Mrs. Sihver!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U50	Thank you. Today, the Minister of Labour and Health, Urmas Kruuse, frightens us all with the message that if we do not reform now and now, we will lose euro money. Do any of you believe that? Good ambassadors! We have questions about the purpose and purpose of the labour capacity reform, for which or for whom it is necessary. This whole virvard is actually much easier, and if you want to do something, you can do something for the benefit of both the people and the state and the economy. We suggest you think about it. The Social Welfare Act places a great deal of responsibilities on local governments. New requirements regarding the reform of working capacity cannot be added to them, as this would be an intervention in the autonomy of local authorities. At the same time, it is not like there is interference with autonomy when the state cuts the budget by reducing the revenue base of local governments. It is unclear where the autonomy of local governments begins and where the autonomy of local governments ends. Good members of the Riigikogu! We can appreciate that the country has begun to pay attention to people with disabilities. However, the development of the employability of people with disabilities is inextricably linked to inclusion in everyday life, normal life, so-called equal opportunities. Our message is in prayer to create opportunities for us to be actively involved and to feel as dignified citizens of the Republic of Estonia and the European Union, who contribute to the welfare of the state by being active within the limits of their possibilities.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U51	Good waitress, I'm asking you to put together your report.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U52	I will conclude by calling on you, honourable self-deciders. I remind you of Laine Randjärv's historical words after the first reading of the draft law on cohabitation: he said that for the first time in history, the ambassadors voted not by order of the party, but by their conscience. The success of, or failure to, work capacity reform will be on your conscience regardless of the party's order. People with disabilities and their supporters will do their utmost to ensure that in the spring elections people who stand up for all Estonian residents receive a mandate. Our advice is to follow a conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U53	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U54	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mrs. Tiia Sihver! In his speech, the Minister of Social Affairs highlighted rehabilitation and rehabilitation as a problem area, whose waiting times are now in the middle for two years. I ask you, as an expert, how this problem will be solved in the light of the new law. Did the minister tell the truth or not? My question to you is this: is the money allocated under the new law sufficient to ensure that these queues are really short and that the problem is resolved on a daily basis? And I'll also tell you, if you answer me, maybe you can finish your speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U55	Thank you. That's a good question. As I pointed out in my speech, the rehabilitation system has been tried to improve for years, but so far it has not succeeded. Looking at this bill, we can see that there have been changes in names, we will be offered social rehabilitation and occupational rehabilitation, but basically it doesn't change anything. And since the content doesn't change, we can't say it's okay. As I said, we do not have implementing legislation and we do not know all the details of the plans. At the same time, one particular figure is now known: only 0.4% of the funds allocated to rehabilitation are spent on disabled people who are already working. For us, this is completely unprecedented. The question arises as to whether it has already been taken into account that people who are working now no longer need rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U56	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U57	Thank you. Dear Mrs. Ticket! You also visited the Prime Minister, who said that this law would necessarily be passed in this Chamber. However, you can be sure that 101 MPs will not vote in favour of this, and the Centre Party Group will certainly vote against it. I'm asking you, but that's what I'm asking you. After all, this reform requires a change in many laws, some of the drafts have not even come to this hall at all. They are now the subject of a covenant of goodwill that the next government will do them at this point in time. You've analyzed the situation. How do you feel about what's really behind the fact that everything is so extremely fast and two half laws are passed? Apart from the European Union's money, are some people wanted to be selected and won some kind of financial victory? What does the real reason for this seem to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U58	Liisa-Ly Pakosta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U59	The actual reason is stated in the draft explanatory memorandum. The reason is that we have too many pensioners and the country needs to start saving money. But certainly the method that has now been introduced is not the right one. We do not support the approach that our people are unable to work, that they are sick and that they have to sit at home. All humans, when they are born into this world, are by nature such that they want to be useful and contribute. That is our idea why the reform agenda must be put to a halt and reviewed. It is precisely because we need to put together all the missing links: there is a need for education, there is a need for more health care, etc. Monika already talked about it. These are the reasons we are not satisfied with.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U60	Thank you. Dear Tiia Sihver! Your speech was very good. There were a lot of facts. I ask for your explanation of two different facts. The Ministry claims that no one's support will be reduced. I, above all, monitor the well-being of children and see that under this system, for example, a 16-year-old young person will receive only EUR 180, despite the fact that his disability is the same as that of a retired person who is currently receiving EUR 260. Also, a 16-year-old, completely healthy young person doesn't get a job, says the unemployment fund. We have a startling number of 16-year-old unemployed at the unemployment fund. The 16-year-old who is likely to have a special need, 80 to 90% incapacity for work, does not get a job, but his allowance is EUR 180.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U61	Please ask a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U62	Which argument is correct: is the fact that subsidies do not decrease, or are they actually significantly reduced?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U63	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U64	Thank you for your question. This is another issue on which the Minister and I are talking in complete contrast. The minister keeps saying that the subsidies are growing. We disagree. I will give a very simple example, which Mrs Pakosta also paid attention to. At present, disabled children who have reached the age of adulthood will receive a disability pension of 250 euros per month on average. With the new system, if they are identified as having a partial capacity to work, they will receive EUR 180 per month. So where is this growth right here? We don't see it. The second issue, which concerns children in particular, is, in our opinion, a very delicate one. People with disabilities also have, you know, their own children and they live a normal family life. And it happens to them that families break up, but in that case, the children have to be paid for maintenance. The minimum amount of maintenance aid is EUR 180. The judge has the right to reduce it, but who will actually suffer? The children of the person to whom maintenance support should be provided will remain. These are just a few examples of why we are saying that support does not really increase.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U65	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! I have a question: isn't the main bottleneck of the work capacity reform that is trying to solve the problem of its own time? I mean, a large number of people, including in South-East Estonia, became "inability to work" pensioners and are now trying to solve this problem. They want to burn EUR 180 million of European Union money and a large amount of our own taxpayers' money as well. It seems to me that, in practice, this problem for society is still not solved, and in all of this, the real concerns of people with disabilities are completely hidden.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U66	Thank you for your question. Indeed, the two very large regions that cause us the greatest concern are Southeast and East Estonia. We all know that there is high unemployment. In fact, there is also a very high proportion of people with disabilities, especially in South-East Estonia. It started to grow since 2008, and the real reasons for it have not been formally investigated by anyone, I mean scientific research. According to the Ministry, the reason is that people are unemployed and unemployment causes bad health. In 2008, the new Social Benefits Act for Persons with Disabilities was launched and people of working age were re-evaluated. This created opportunities for the system itself to produce more people with disabilities, who are not able to work. A very simple example. For example, if I write in my application that my back hurts and I need pills to do so, and if my doctor confirms that, then I will be denied a job. If you don't believe me, try it! Now the aim is to eliminate this possibility, but once again it has not been studied and analysed, where there are problems and how it is wise to solve them. We don't think it's normal. One starting point should be that it must first be made clear who is disabled, who is suffering from serious health problems, who maybe just age specificities. They all have different needs and must be guided by the starting position.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U67	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U68	Dear waitress, thank you for your presentation. You repeatedly called a misguided, flawed reform. Fortunately, there is no reform yet, there are only legislative proposals that can always be changed. It would be foolish to ask whether you are now satisfied with the situation in the area we are talking about. I'm sure it isn't. It is now possible that the area will receive some EUR 300 million of ESF funding. Mrs Haukanõm answered Mr Kõiv's question, which will improve in this area. When he answered, he mentioned five things that would get better. Can you name five things that get worse? I'm quite frankly asking, because when I start comparing them, I finally know how to vote. What are you most afraid of? What's getting worse?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U69	Thank you for your question. It is very difficult to get five of the biggest minuses out of all this major reform. But the first thing that comes to mind is that there's more bureaucracy. The second, which I consider to be a very serious threat, is that a person's pension is replaced by a disability allowance. A person is entitled to a pension throughout the period for which he or she is entitled to a pension. A disability allowance can be taken away from a person at the discretion of an official. The third minus is that it is the disabled and their family members who are being punished. There will be activity requirements, there will be no obligations, but there will be no preconditions and opportunities for doing so. How much did I say now? Three. It is so difficult to distinguish what results are greater and which have less impact. But, yeah, it's also a loss of income. I've already told you that people's situation isn't getting any better, it's getting worse.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U70	Let's get on with the questions. Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U71	Thank you. Dear Mrs. Ticket! I'm really glad we can hear you here tonight. Even before the completion of these two draft laws, you repeatedly told me in our conversation that there is a serious problem in Estonia that support services for disabled people are not evenly available throughout Estonia. The picture is very different and depends on the municipality. Indeed, some municipalities offer no help to a disabled person so that he can work. There have also been many times in this Chamber today that municipalities are the weakest link to this reform. What does it look like to you, if these two drafts become a law, is there a serious problem that people with disabilities are in a very difficult situation in smaller and weaker municipalities and basically do not receive any help in any way? Will the situation become more equal across Estonia, remain the same, or will these differences expand and people get into even more unequal situations?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U72	Thank you for your question. I think it's gonna get worse than better. The justification is again the same as I said in reply to the previous question. When a person's duties are imposed, but he cannot fulfill them because of the lack of opportunities, his situation will deteriorate. There is certainly a need to ensure that at least a minimum package of four services is introduced equally. Then there is reason to assume that a disabled person can go to work. For example, in Tallinn, for example, a deaf person receives two hours of sign language translation services per year. That means he can communicate for two hours a year. However, if Ida-Virumaa was taken aside, I looked at the statistics of the Ministry of Social Affairs the day before yesterday, there is a large zero in all the services of disabled people. All over Ida-Viru County is zero! Consequently, there is no service for disabled persons throughout the county. How are these people gonna get along there? How do they even get out of the house? They probably can't even dream of going to work or going anywhere or participating in anything.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U73	Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U74	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I ask you as a person who is in this environment every day. How many companies are actually willing to cooperate? Do you see their willingness in the sense that it would be financially beneficial for them?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U75	It can be based on the fact that those employers who have employed a disabled person and have discovered how good they are, how motivated they are and how loyal they are to their employers are. But, unfortunately, there are very few positive examples. We have no experience, people have certain fears. Plus the question of social tolerance. This is not just about the boss who wants to hire a disabled person, it is about the whole collective where that person goes to work. Colleagues have to accept that some people can do a little less, or they can't control a few moves, etc., so nuances enter the game. We have some big entrepreneurs who are always trying to set an example, but there are too few of them.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U76	Madam Tiia Sihver, I thank you for your report and your answers. I ask for a presentation of the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U77	Honourable audiences and watchers through the transmission of today's debate! As many as there are people, there are different needs, not least when health dictates these needs. However, all people, regardless of their special needs, are part of society and as a society we must learn to understand, support and enable people with special needs to participate in society and working life in a dignified way. This is why the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu has been listening since spring to the opinions of chambers, associations and societies of people with special needs about the reform of their working capacity, analysing them and trying to take them into account in the best way. Similarly, we have taken into account the views expressed in the studies to ensure that the proposals for amendments and improvements to the two draft laws currently underway make the major reform work as smoothly as possible. The Committee on Social Affairs has held more than twenty sessions on this subject, in addition to discussions and heated meetings of working groups, including quite intense talks with government partners. All the more so that as many people as possible can benefit from the reform. I would like to remind you that there are now about 100,000 people in Estonia who, using the current term, are pensioners for incapacity for work and who have one way or another to win the reform. The success of the work capacity reform depends very much on implementing legislation. Much depends on the ability of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the unemployment fund, who are going to carry out the reform directly, I think it would be better to say that much depends on the empathy and goodwill of all those involved. I would like to wholeheartedly thank all the organisations of people with special needs who have explained the needs of their people to us, proposed improvements and expressed their opinion. Thank you. You benefited greatly from the fact that the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu was able to fight the rather rough draft laws more substantively from the Ministry of Social Affairs at first. However, especially because of your own effective contribution, it is not quite correct for one category or another to say that the reform agenda and the draft laws have not changed. On the contrary, the Employment Allowance Act has almost changed to the unknown. The petition transferred to the Riigikogu and the government to stop the work capacity reform collected thousands of signatures, I dare say, on the initial text version submitted by the government. It is also our own guilt and failure here, because we have not been able to disprove all fears and misconceptions, although we have constantly tried to explain the main improvements and changes that have been agreed in the Committee on Social Affairs to improve the reform. I will go over the most important fundamental changes once again. Firstly, as you know, we have postponed the enforcement of the law. We did this just to have time to consider the pros and cons. In a new way, the assessment of disability will be gradual, starting from the first half of 2016 for new applicants, as well as from July of the same year for those inability to work, using the current wordbreed, whose percentage of incapacity for work is time to be reviewed. They will then receive a partial or a lack of work capacity. So on and on. Some of the current incapacity pension businesses will not be able to assess their ability to work until after 2020. It is also well known to you that we want to raise the income limit from which the allowance for a part-time employee will be reduced. Instead of the initially planned EUR 641 monthly income, the allowance will be partially reduced from EUR 960 salaries. For a person with partial working capacity, the payment of the allowance shall be stopped from EUR 1300 for a person with no working capacity only from EUR 1600 for a person with no working capacity. Life has shown that so much can be earned only by a marginal proportion of people with special needs. The old disability pension is maintained if it is higher than the new disability allowance. The bill also includes compensation for additional costs incurred in assessing the ability to work, if the unemployment fund exceptionally considers it necessary to send the customer to the expert doctor. We are talking about special transportation, personal assistant, sign language interpreter, etc. The Unemployment Insurance Fund plans to start paying travel allowance for work if the staff member with special needs cannot use a public transport vehicle. This measure is initially planned for a fixed period, foreseen for a year, but is under negotiation to remove this limitation. It is important that the unemployment fund actively cooperates with local authorities and finds solutions for obtaining social services in cooperation. The European Social Fund is intended to support the development and availability of local government services. At least 1000 people with reduced capacity to work will be employed in the public sector by 2020 to set an example for private operators. It is very important to pursue a one-door policy, to provide a composite service. In other words, when a person enters the unemployment fund's door, he or she should be able to submit at the same time applications for the assessment of his or her ability to work and the determination of his or her disability and for the benefit of his or her ability to work and disability, and, if necessary, to receive assistance and guidance in order to receive rehabilitation services. The principle is that the unemployment fund and the Social Insurance Board exchange data and the person does not run from one place to another for no reason. One door also means that a person of working age with part-time work ability receives the services necessary for finding a job or staying at work, whether it is advice, rehabilitation or adaptation of the job, from the unemployment fund. However, the Social Insurance Institution provides support for people who do not have the capacity to work. With regard to the assessment of the ability to work, the Commission considered it important that the evaluators become professionals who have received in-depth training explaining the needs, opportunities and opportunities of the target group. After all, a person with mental and behavioural disorders needs a different chance of self-defeating than a potential worker with musculoskeletal discomfort. Expert physicians who are partners of the unemployment fund will assess the extent of the person's ability to work as assessed by the specialists of the unemployment fund. As far as rehabilitation plans are concerned, the current regime has rightly been accused of venting public money. In order to receive occupational rehabilitation, it is no longer necessary to go ahead with a plan. The need for rehabilitation, like all other employment services, is assessed by the case manager of the trained unemployment fund. In cooperation with the client, it is agreed to receive rehabilitation services or participate in the rehabilitation programme. The volume and choice of services that restore health should increase considerably and, of course, people and their needs should be taken into account. People with partial working capacity who are going to receive rehabilitation services through the unemployment fund may in the future receive employment-supporting, health-enhancing services for up to €483 per year, up to € 1500 per year, both job-seekers and job-seekers. In short, a person with a special need who has reached the unemployment fund is not thinking of running for nothing when he has already gone through the door, nor of punishing him too much, as the more harsh critics of the reform of working capacity have accused him of. In order to meet the so-called activity requirements, you can also communicate with the unemployment fund by telephone or by electronic means if a person lives further away in rural areas or is unable to move easily due to disability. According to the new version of the draft law, the unemployment fund cannot under any circumstances be suspended until it is established why no contact has been made. Moreover, social democrats insist that rehabilitation services are also provided for people with reduced capacity to work who do not meet the requirements for activity. The age limit for students has been lost. Learning was originally intended to be taken into account for the activity requirement only until the age of 31. On the proposal of the Chamber of Disabled Persons, the Social Affairs Committee extended from three months to six months the period during which a person seeking an assessment of his or her ability to work must attend a doctor's appointment before submitting his or her application. In the future, your ability to work can also be assessed during your stay on the sick leave. Support person service is available for a thousand hours during the first year of work. If justified, the service will continue to be provided in the coming years, but in a smaller volume. You can't get all the corrections, and there's no point in talking about it now. The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu has even considered it necessary to discuss amendments that are unambiguously resolved by government regulation. For example, I would like to mention, for example, that a person who supports a visually impaired person would be paid travel and accommodation costs if he or she accompanied a person in need of assistance to a rehabilitation centre, or to finance more diapers for a person with severe reduced mobility, which goes under a series of aids. The proposals I have spoken about have been important for disability organisations, in principle, and that is why we have sought and, to a large extent, have found ways to vote on these amendments in the drafts. But, as I have already said, two laws and government powers with time limits cannot solve every single one of the concerns of a particular need. The truth is that it is not possible to solve all the problems that are unresolved in this area in the course of the work capacity reform, but it is also necessary to address these issues. We urgently need the goodwill and goodwill of everyone, the whole of society, which are supra-governmental and cross-party, and which gives people with special needs and their representative organisations the assurance that they will be seen, heard and supported. The issues already raised at the Round Table of the Good Will Agreement on Social Protection must be discussed, their objectives and deadlines set. Good people! I will try to summarise briefly what we all have to gain from the reform of the capacity for work and what we have to lose. Across the dog has already been obtained, many of the basic deadlocks have been unraveled with both interest groups and coalition partner. Can't we get over the dog's tail? Why do we want to blow away the immense work that has been done together so far? Social underfunded for more than 20 years could now receive nearly €300 million from the European Social Fund for the reform of working capacity. Another similar option may be expected for seven years. There are criticisms that reform costs a lot of money, but bringing people with special needs into the labour market, building and launching the whole system is expensive. Once the system goes down, it's gonna get cheaper. The reform would contribute to changing the mindset of both employers and society as a whole. Even now, we are not talking about disability; we are talking about ability. In countries that are accustomed to democratic beliefs for a long time, where people are people, regardless of their special needs or colour of eyes, people with disabilities are able to value, communicate with them, support and help them if necessary. Our decades ago, when every man in any other way was out of his sight, pushed between four walls, we are not allowed to treat them equally. We just don't know how to do it. Either we look past them intently or we hold to prejudice. When you talk about not employing two partially-operated partially-sighted visually impaired people instead of leaving a colleague, you are repainted with your hand. The point is, maybe it'll increase my own workload. In a country with an ageing and declining population, every pair of hands on the labour market are welcome, as older dependants are getting more and more from year to year. However, the amount of the pension depends directly on how much the tax is paid by the working people. It is therefore in the interests of society as a whole that as many people of working age as possible find employment. Nobody expects them to work beyond their means, they should do their best work. In any case, the current situation is neither sustainable nor suitable for employers who would like to hire part-time workers if labour shortages got worse. They would need state support for the recruitment of people with special needs, starting with the training or further training of the employee and ending with the help of remodelling the workplace and social tax incentives. This situation is least suitable for people who have partially lost their capacity to work, but who want and can work to increase their well-being and feel like a useful member of society who acts, communicates and speaks along in world affairs, like everyone else, and does not receive scarce aid without giving themselves something in return. Or are we left on our own to fight in the search for a job? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U78	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Commission. You have questions. Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U79	Thank you, President of the sitting. The representative of the Committee on Social Affairs. Representatives and experts of disabled people have been performing in this hall today. Their story and your story differ radically. You say everyone's involved, and all the points of pain have been solved. The representatives of people with disabilities do not confirm this and say that the solutions are very incomplete and in many ways flawed. Why is the coalition going to forcefully adopt a law full of holes and look down arrogantly on the concerns of disabled people?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U80	I'll start from a distance. While the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee was Margus Tsahkna and we discussed the work capacity reform committee for the first time, I and Helmen Hunt had a lot of questions, but Margus Tsahkna had no questions. It is a public secret that if the former coalition had continued, the draft labour capacity reform would have been adopted as a law already this spring. But in the meantime, the coalition changed and, of course, the Social Democrats did not agree with such drafts. We really had a lot of meetings this summer, as I said in my speech, we listened to the proposals of the disabled, found a common section and brought it into the draft legislation. When it comes to the situation of people with disabilities in general, these two drafts really do not solve all the problems. That is simply not possible, for people with disabilities have been simply overlooked for decades. I very much hope that the debate on these two drafts, as well as the cooperation agreement and what is happening around it, will make society think more about people with special needs and their needs, and that society will realise that these people cannot be bypassed. Let me give you another example. When the Social Democrats put on the agenda as an important national issue in 2013, we discussed it both in the Committee on Social Affairs and in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. There was not much discussion in the hall when this topic was discussed, and nothing happened after that, but it would have been time to start changing something. I would like to stress, however, that there has been a lot of work in the Commission. No one has said that there has been no close work in the Commission or that the draft laws have been amended. These two drafts, which have been in the Commission, have now changed beyond recognition. If we are talking about the services that local authorities should provide, which are very much expected and which are also very necessary, then here, too, European Union money, if I am not deceived by memory, was EUR 31 million. It would be very good, as Monika Haukanõm said, if the municipal reform had been carried out. You were in power for seven years, but it's not done. That's too bad!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U81	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U82	Please hand the microphone back to Mailis Reps, because he has 12 seconds left to finish his question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U83	Thank you, Mr President. President-in-Office of the Commission. The Unemployment Insurance Fund has been given a very important role in this reform. At the same time, the Estonian Taxpayers' Association has been quite critical of the role of the unemployment fund and has indicated that the proposed reform could result in the unemployment fund being given executive functions that could actually only be performed by persons working in a government institution. The question, therefore, is whether the role given to the unemployment fund is even compatible with the Constitution and whether it is fair to taxpayers when money originally collected for a specific purpose is actually used for other purposes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U84	Has this issue been legally analysed in your committee, i.e. does it comply with the law to give this role to the unemployment fund?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U85	I'm really sorry you didn't specify that role. Of course, the role of the unemployment fund is to help people work. There is now the fact that if a person with partial employment capacity is on the labour market, he or she is entitled to rehabilitation services through the unemployment fund if he or she needs to do so. As I have already said, these services are available for up to EUR 1 500 per year. I didn't understand the role of the unemployment fund here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U86	Etti Kagarov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U87	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Heljo! Work capacity reform affects a large number of people with disabilities and it is clear that they are very afraid of change. But what will change in their lives with regard to the assessment of their ability to work? You didn't touch on the subject. Why don't you tell me a little bit about it so you can reduce those fears?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U88	Thank you for your question. When I've been seeing people with disabilities, I've often been asked where these doctors are taken. I have explained that the unemployment fund is actually signing a contract with expert doctors, and if a percentage of the capacity to work is currently determined, experts will also assess whether this person has the right to be a disability pensioner in the next period. Doctors are still involved in the assessment of work ability. The first step is when a person goes to a family or specialist who describes his or her medical condition and puts this description up in e-health. The second step is to apply to the unemployment fund for work capacity. If the application has been submitted, there are two options: the person himself fills out a questionnaire on his/her operational capacity and sends it either by e-mail or by post to the unemployment fund, or the employee of the unemployment fund helps him/her to do so. At the same time, you can also submit an application for disability benefit to the unemployment fund. The third step is to assess the ability to work, which is done by an expert doctor, who is a contractual partner of the unemployment fund. The expert doctor assesses the ability to work on the basis of the human health information and performance questionnaire. He makes recommendations on suitable working conditions and asks other specialists if necessary. If the data is inconsistent, he or she invites a person to an appointment, tests or involves an action rape or clinical psychologist. We have now also written down in the draft that if a person has to pay for an additional health study, the unemployment fund will compensate him for the special transport service, sign language interpreter, personal assistant and other services he needs. The fourth step is the decision to assess the ability to work, because the decision must finally be made. A decision is made whether a person is fully fit for work, partially able to work or not able to work. The decision is made by a specialist in the assessment of the working capacity of the unemployment fund and is made at the central office on the basis of an expert doctor's assessment. This is not done by the case manager, as has often been misunderstood. The fifth step is the decision to grant a disability allowance and is made by the unemployment benefit specialist on the basis of the decision to assess the working capacity. The sixth step is advice and services to help or support work, the need for which is assessed and provided by the case manager in the county department, i.e. where the person has turned to the unemployment fund. But I would like to explain a few questions that were raised here. I say no to how many people with reduced mobility have taken part in the Social Committee session so that they do not look like they only took part in eight minutes. In the first public session, there were many rapporteurs and representatives of various special needs organisations. Mrs Sihver got the floor on June 10th for eight minutes. The meeting of 14 July was held in the Committee on Social Affairs, where representatives of the multiplex associations in sclerosis and the Estonian Association of Persons with reduced mobility were invited. Mrs Sihver and Mrs Lõoke were present, who represented people with reduced mobility very well and opened up all the problems. The debate lasted one hour and 48 minutes. There were representatives of the disabled, not members of the Social Affairs Committee. Sven Kõllamets, a very practical young man with reduced mobility, took part in the meeting on 26 August. The debate lasted one hour and 25 minutes in the Committee on Social Affairs. Although there were no people with reduced mobility at the meeting on 13 October, Invaru was a representative. It's a company that handles aids. Possibility of getting a wheelchair for a person with reduced mobility was discussed: if the wheelchair breaks, what will happen, if a new wheelchair can be rented immediately, if it is possible to rent a replacement wheelchair, etc. Similarly, the availability of tools such as diapers was discussed. It lasted 53 minutes. The representatives of persons with reduced mobility were again invited to the meeting on 14 October, Mrs Sihver and Mrs Lõoke, and then the debate lasted one hour and five minutes. So the claims that representatives of disabled people have not been invited to the Commission or have only been given the floor for eight minutes are not true. But I really want to thank them that they have always come when we have asked for it, they have expressed their opinion, and so on. I'm also talking about rehabilitation services. At present, people of working age receive 3.5 million euros for rehabilitation services through the Social Insurance Board. When all children, the elderly and also the unemployed are summed up, this amount amounts to nearly EUR 8 million. If the reform were to start, from 2016 all this money, almost EUR 8 million, would be left for children, older people and the inability to work, but almost EUR 17 million would come to the unemployment fund for rehabilitation services for people of working age, i.e. health-enhancing services, so that they could participate in the labour market. That's a lot of money. Once again, it can be spent up to EUR 1 500 a year, according to a person's needs. It's a big leap forward to help people. Now, one more thing. The speeches revealed that there was an opinion that you could take away your work capacity allowance at will. You can't take it away if you want. As I said to you before, in order to suspend the payment of the disability allowance or to withdraw the disability allowance, the unemployment fund must find out what are the reasons why the person has not made contact with the unemployment fund. If the person has not been received, you must not give up payment of the disability allowance. They don't do it for no reason. I would also stress that regardless of whether or not a person is active in the labour market, he or she will in any case receive health rehabilitation services.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U89	Mr President of the Commission, thank you for your report and your answers. Good colleagues, we're starting a round of negotiations. As requested by the Committee on Social Affairs, there will be representatives of the political groups first. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask the representative of the Estonian Centre Party Group Marika Tuus-Lauli for the speech chair of the Riigikogu! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U90	Good chairman of the sitting! Guests! Honourable ministers! Colleagues! I am pleased that the representative of those who signed the petition and who called for the problems of disabled people to be discussed as an important national issue could also speak from this point of view. As we know, the coalition decided not to let this person in this chair at first. We thank Monika Haukanõmme, the head of the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People, who proposed this and also Jüri Ratas, Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, who contributed to solving the embarrassing situation! When the draft Employment Capacity Allowance Act was handed over to the Riigikogu in the spring, the ministers said that it was like a good bill, European money comes, jobs are found for disabled people, assistance services are coming, everything is ideal. However, when we started working on the bill, we saw that the only sure thing was that the unemployment fund would become a place where people with disabilities would be treated as unemployed people, as jobseekers, and that would hurt the dignity of people with disabilities. It had also been decided that the resources collected in the form of monthly payments from employers and employees into the public unemployment fund over the years would be mobilised, the funds collected would be given a completely new function, and more than 500 more jobs would be made into the unemployment fund. That's all there was. I can tell you that I don't remember that in those very many years that I've worked here, the ministry would have come up with a bill as raw and unthinkable as this. Apparently, the fresh ministers were so excited about their appointment in the spring that they did not fully understand the nature and scope of the work capacity reform. They thought it was one or two laws. Today we know that the reform failed last time, the Reform Party and the IRL government. Hanno Pevkur started this reform as a minister, as we remember, and Taavi Kõivas continued, but nothing came up. Instead, it should have started with the Social Welfare Act and provided support services for people. In parallel, insurance for accidents at work and occupational diseases should have been completed. The restructuring of temporary incapacity for work should have been dealt with, as well as the education of disabled people, which is key, and, of course, the problems of carers and many other things. On the other hand, we started at the end, the Employment Allowance Act, and now we see that the main focus of the reform is now on assessing the ability to work and only on launching the reform, where most of the money goes. But there's a lot of question marks going on. Now all of a sudden, we're at a huge speed, we need European money, the government's working hours are about to end, and everything that's not done will be recorded in a goodwill agreement, hoping that the next government will come and do it. I think it's still very naive and it definitely won't work. The Disability Allowance Act mainly deals with the review of the cash benefits of incapacity pensioners, i.e. the disability pension is often replaced by a lower disability allowance, which starts to be reduced from a certain income. Why it's done, I don't know. After all, a disabled person spends most of the money to cover the extra costs of the disability. But there is no point in going to work if you have to pay for it. The initial draft envisaged that the grant would start to decrease as early as the EUR 641 salary. People with disabilities came to Toompea with crutches and wheelchairs to protest, for the first time in the history of the Republic of Estonia. The government had no choice but to lift that line. But starting from the €1325 income, the grant will disappear altogether. Why? We don't understand that. The island Poll has said directly that in this form, subsidies do not improve the livelihood of disabled people, impoverishment is increasing and health problems are increasing as a result. We can see that an experiment is being carried out on these 100,000 and more people (with carers and helpers, perhaps close relatives, who are directly dependent on the lives of people with special needs). The head of the unemployment fund, Meelis Paavel, has also said that without social services or if they are provided only with fingertips, this reform will not succeed. How can these people get a job if they do not have the necessary disability, personal assistance, aids, sign language translation and other support services? There's not enough money to go to Peipsi and Vändra. There aren't that many specialists either. For example, the rehabilitation service, which has been discussed a lot, will be provided to 509 people in 2016. But how many people need help? 15,000 people are about to be put to work. Repeat, and you'll get an answer. After all, the service is also needed for those who are already working. The day before yesterday, a decision was made that the rehabilitation order could be one year, but a representative of the ministry said that there was no financial cover for it, and the Reform Party did not agree with it either. Without municipalities, without the establishment of a standard for assistance services and without money, this reform will not work. Municipalities are one of the main topics that Praxis and Saar Poll are talking about, but this is the least dealt with at all, not really done. No additional agreements have been reached with employers, no additional guarantees have been created. Indeed, there is quite a lot of money coming from Europe now, but where will this money come from in the future? We are told that when European money ends, we will receive money from the state budget, because working people will pay taxes to the state. There are a lot of questions. Why is it still a hidden desire to carry out this reform in such a hurry? It seems to me that these people, on the outskirts of the country, are going to get disability support and to admit that they are healthy. They become unemployed, and then the state will win. Very rightly, Pille Ilves, the head of the Estonian patients' representative society, said that Estonia is a model for many countries in terms of employment of disabled people, while being a respected third place. We, on the other hand, deal with compulsion. You don't have to force these people. They want to work. The main issue, I repeat, is the lack of rehabilitation and the lack of access to assistance services. These services are scarce and we do not see any money coming for this. This needs to be dealt with. The Centre Party Group proposes to take time off and deal with what people with disabilities expect of us and what is really important. We have also been warned by many foreign countries, by the way, many countries to which this reform has also been imported, so that we do not make the mistake they have made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U91	Thank you. I ask for the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu, Representative of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union Margus Tsahkna!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U92	These are the kind of problems that we can solve. People with disabilities also want to participate actively in society. They want to work with their abilities properly. That is why the work capacity reform has been put into practice. The question is simply that for the plan that the country has, we have no preconditions. I am talking specifically about all of us who have been in power in this country. I'm not blaming today or yesterday's coalition. I also do not blame the current Prime Minister, Taavi Rõivas, who was the Minister of Social Affairs in the previous government and who has prepared this reform. I draw attention to the content of this conflict. To this end, there are simple concrete measures to ensure that people with special needs can come out of their homes and play an active role in achieving the objectives of the reform. Today Tom Rüütel is sitting on this balcony, who is currently obtaining a Master's degree at Tallinn University. He's graduated from a regular school, but in order for him to be able to work professionally, he needs to get out of the house first. But he can't dress himself. It's a problem why he can't be active and can't go to work. This is one of the specific and very specific problems that we have to resolve. There are thousands of these problems. Every person with special needs and disabilities has specific problems. Unfortunately, the same work capacity reform does not solve these problems with its accompanying laws. The question is how to solve them. They're still unsolved. One way is what people with disabilities have suggested is that national standards for services should be established, at least in some respects, so that they are accessible to everyone, regardless of the municipality in which the person lives. Such services include support person service, personal assistant service, transport service. All of them are needed so that the work capacity reform can work in the first place. It's actually understandable to everyone. I do not believe that our ministers, above all, the Helmen Hunter, do not understand that. I think he understands that very well. I also understand his difficult situation, because I feel that there is simply a political agreement that these laws must be adopted here as they are. I must acknowledge the Social Affairs Committee, despite the fact that the chairman of the committee, Heljo Pikhof, attacked me here. The Committee on Social Affairs has really tried to do maximum work and has made improvements, but the same problem of assumptions is still unresolved. Unfortunately, this solution is not provided by the Employment Allowance Act. I am talking about another subject that has been close to my heart. If we are talking not only about this bill, but about the fact that the aim of the work capacity reform is to help those people who have stayed away from the labour market because of special needs or disabilities, then one of the very large groups here is the caretakers. They care specifically for the people to whom this reform is intended. They themselves are healthy and educated people who have left the labour market to care for their loved ones at home. But for those who are the easiest to come back to work, the work ability reform does not work. There are 13,000 people who have officially registered as guardians, but in fact there are many, many more in our society. We need to set standards for services across Estonia to enable them to participate in society and work, even with a part-time period, so that they can contribute more economically to their own family and to the lives of those people with the same disability or special needs in order to help them. These services are currently lacking and, unfortunately, they will not come with this work capacity reform. If we have discussed the sustainability of the reform of working capacity in this Chamber in a statesmanly manner, I will see that, as one of the next speakers, the former Minister of Finance, Jürgen Ligi, will have the floor, I have asked whether this reform of working capacity will be feasible for us even when Europe's money ends in 2020. We know why the government is so aggressive about this work capacity reform. As a result of this reform, state budget expenditure on disability pensions is increasing, but after 2020 these expenditures will be passed on to the unemployment fund. This means that these are no longer state budget direct expenditure and will be paid by employers and employees from their own disability insurance tax. This, however, is not an issue that I can explain in a few minutes. In summing up, I want to tell you that this political game that is going on here will not solve absolutely the real problems faced by the 100,000 people to whom this work capacity reform is intended. I hope that the members of the Riigikogu, regardless of which party they belong to, will understand this and that the problem of Tom Rüütel will be easily solved in the future, and that he will be among us not only in discussing such important issues but also in working. That is why I ask you to take time off with the reform of the capacity for work and do the part that is still missing! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U93	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U94	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! Good people who are watching us, especially people with special needs! First of all, I would like to thank the Head of the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People, Monika Haukanõmme, and Tiia Sihver, who handed over the 3,500 signatures of the petition, who today gave us a picture of what people with special needs are really thinking about the reform of their ability to work and what their problems are. There have been many political accusations in this Chamber, but they do not concern the content of the employment capacity reform. It is customary for politicians to be involved, especially before the elections, but it does not help in any way to solve the problems of people with disabilities and special needs. In Postimees on Monday, Marju Lauristin said that the entire work capacity reform covers only one tenth or twentyth of the problems faced by people with disabilities and special needs, and no more. In this sense, he struck the sign that if we look at the positions and explanations of the Minister and the Government coalition, we will see that there is no one, no party, and even less the representatives of people with disabilities and special needs, against the objective of the reform of working capacity. After all, we all know that the development of our country has been stormy; we have rather dealt with perhaps such visible and tangible problems, but today, with regard to the reform of working capacity, the whole hidden world has spread out before us, where the problems of people with disabilities and special needs are clearly visible. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U95	Thank you. I ask the representative of the Social Democratic Party Group of the Riigikogu for a speech chair, Eiki Nestori!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U96	Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U97	Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me first of all, on behalf of our group, to thank those on whose proposal today there is a debate on a key national issue. Since there's been a mistake here, I'm going to read out all these organizations for clarity. This proposal was made to the Riigikogu by the Association of Estonian Careers, the Association of Estonian Guide Dogs Users, the Estonian Federation of People with Disabilities, the Estonian Association of Visually Disabled People, the Estonian Association of People with Disabilities, the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People, the Estonian Society of Multiplex Associations, the Estonian Association of Hearers, the Estonian Association of People with Mental Disabilities, the Estonian Greens, the School of Leaders and Assistant Dogs, the MTÜ Händikäpp, the MTÜ Put your Minds to the Test, Touch Point, the Tallinn Chamber of People with Disabilities and the Health Sheet. Thank you very much for this proposal. Among today's waitresses, there were even two speakers. So all the gentlemen who have sung politically about the performances here in a couple of days could apologize to Monika Haukanõmm, because she is also one of the proposers. So the two performers were among them, we'll be precise first. In addition, we have received a collective address with a very effective number of signatures, which is still being processed in the Riigikogu. In addition, I would like to make a few comments. Firstly, there is no need for any major separate social study. The subject has been studied many times in the world and Estonia's practice is the same. It has been shown that there is a strong link between the two indicators: unemployment and the number of unemployed people of working age. It's like this all over the world. As unemployment increases, the number of pensioners will also increase in Estonia. It happens the same way in Finland, Sweden and anywhere. It is completely unnecessary to reflect on what happened, whether sick people were at work before, or whether those people became ill because they became unemployed. This is a pointless debate. But there's this connection everywhere. It will not go away in the future, even if this reform is carried out. In fact, in my opinion, it is not to mention the problem of why these changes do not create trust in people with disabilities. They do not create this for a fully understandable and clear reason. We are saying that we should offer more rehabilitation services to help these people work, but we can see that there is no money for that. We are saying that municipalities should offer more support services, but we are told that there is no money. That's it. People with disabilities have made an extremely accurate remark that many services still exist, and the unemployment fund also offers them, but the question arises as to why they are not used. The question mark is always where the money comes from. But now there's the money. Interestingly, the government, which has requested money from the European Union to make these changes, has come into the ordinary position of the government. If they make these changes, they will be able to fight, and if they do not make these changes, they will be able to fight for not trying to get that money. What's the solution? There can only be one solution: trying to make these changes and making use of this money. There is really no point in spoiling any hopes on this subject, as if it were some cost-effective amount of EU money. These costs will remain in the future, after this system has been set up, they will not disappear. It is necessary, as has been quite rightly pointed out, to give people confidence that this system will not become a system today because of a lack of money. How to do that, I'll talk about it a little later. I think the three groups of four in the Riigikogu have worked effectively in the Committee on Social Affairs to make these changes. As I understand it, the Government of the Republic has also cooperated as the initiator of the drafts. He has not said that no, the changes that have now been made to the draft laws would somehow be wrong. I would like to thank all those who have gone to the Commission with their thoughts and represented a number of associations of people with disabilities for contributing to the amendment of the drafts. Indeed, one group has taken a politically comfortable position, not so much a substantive position, but that is their choice. We all understand that elections are coming and, in order to make such a serious reform, maybe it would be a more reasonable time, but, unfortunately, this has happened, and then you have to live with it. We see today that a lot of things here are going to go back to the question of how local authorities will be able to offer these services in the future. That is a very correct question. You see, since I have been interested in the social life of Estonia, I can give you a number of examples where many of the proposed reforms have not been carried out because there is no courage to even talk to the municipalities, because it has not been believed that an agreement is possible at all. For example, all that is involved in the care of old people can be mentioned. For this very reason, too, the drafts that are currently being dealt with by the Riigikogu, such as the light of this agreement, which has been called a goodwill agreement and which is a necessary document, require. Its conclusion could be made by employers, workers, certainly local authorities, all their associations, all associations of disabled people who consider it necessary to join it. I call on all parties to join it in the Riigikogu and not only in the Riigikogu, because it is only in this way that it is possible to conclude that the services that are currently missing are beginning to emerge and that people can use them. I believe that the Estonian political parties want to help people who have partially lost their capacity to work. I think these people want to go to work. So less political pre-election excitement and more intelligence than you can possibly!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U98	Mr President, I would also like to ask for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U99	Thank you. I ask Jüri Jaansoni, representative of the Estonian Reform Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair of Speech!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U100	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the initiators of this important national issue, and I would also like to thank the main rapporteurs. I am somewhat sorry that the rational position of an impartial expert, the representative of the National Audit Office, was not included in the main reports. But we have his report on the desk in writing. Since there have been quite a lot of emotions and views in today's presentations, which are in many ways estimated, I am happy to bring a few paragraphs out of the report of the National Audit Office. First of all, the representative of the National Audit Office says that he considers the reform of working capacity to be one of the major challenges of Estonia's lifelong learning strategy. I'm sure it is. Much depends on how we handle this challenge. Secondly, he asks a very important question. He is asking whether we would carry out the reform even if we did not have euro money. He'll answer that question himself, probably, because we don't have a choice. Thirdly, he points out that the reform will be truly successful only when we no longer have a new generation of inability to work. This requires a consistent approach to new laws. Yeah, I agree with that. In line, the system of insurance for accidents at work and occupational diseases is expected to be implemented. It is now waiting for the government to be brought into government, and I think that we need to implement it as soon as possible, because it has a very important preventive role to play. Now I'm going to talk a little bit about inclusion. Much has been said here about inclusion, whether people, target groups and parties are sufficiently involved. But let us begin by ratifying the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in this very Chamber on 21 March 2012, and a year later the Social Committee held a debate here on a crucial national issue when the employment of people with special needs was discussed. It set the goal of implementing the work capacity reform. If I remember correctly, the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee at the time said that he hoped that the debate on this crucial national issue would be followed by important laws. So this is where we are now with the reform. I don't have much time to talk here, but I will say that there was a very thorough presentation here at the time, a representative of the unemployment fund, who, in the light of his experience, outlined in detail the reasons why social work is not working today. I am saying that we have done a very great job in the Committee on Social Affairs, we have worked through all the shortcomings, and I think we can start this reform calmly. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U101	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U102	I draw a little attention to the statistics that change all the time because the number of inability to work is constantly changing as an annual average. However, in 2012, we had 34300 people with permanent job losses who were busy. A year later, there were already over 40,000. At the same time, the number of inactive persons increased. In summary, there was an increase in the number of both active and inactive people. In fact, it can be argued that more than 6 000 people have gained employment in one year as an annual average. There are a number of reasons, but it basically shows that the unemployment fund has also done a very good job. He has been committed to people with special needs and loss of ability to work long before the law has begun to demand it. I will also highlight the fundamental problems that exist here. I would like to remind you that, during the debate on a crucial national issue on the same subject last year and a half ago, I stressed in my report that the main problem is the difference between the employment rate of people who lose their capacity to work and those who have permanent incapacity to work. This difference is currently 30% circa. That is the difference that needs to be eliminated in the course of the work capacity reform. Finally, I stress the article of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which states that people who have lost their capacity to work have the same right to work as ordinary people. I believe that we can take an important step in this direction after this three-year process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U103	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu to speak to Erki Arrow!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U104	Ladies and gentlemen, As is well known, many things are best understood by comparison. Take European values as an example. This pair of words has become like the Lord, a mantra multiplied by food and food. It already seems that the Estonians themselves have no values or, if they are, they are certainly contrary to the Europeans. It seems, rather, that we are only savages from the trees yesterday. I really would like someone to say what we are still Estonia for a change. What's left of us, just a song party or a Setu belt? Why don't we take a closer look at this? We, thank God, do not have ethnic or religious conflicts, as usual in Europe. We do not yet have cars and buildings to burn on the street like in Europe. We do not circumcise women and girls, as is already the case in Europe. We do not have religious leaders giving hate speeches, as is probably allowed in Europe. We have not left hundreds of fighters in the ranks of the ISIS, as European laws seem to allow. We are not doing arms trade with Russia, something which, according to European values, is perhaps entirely natural. We don't do all that. However, we act as if Europe is a food livre, where we only take the kind of goods that have not yet gone bad, but we leave the trash behind. That's how you start to think that maybe there are two Europes or we have ourselves a blind eye, some double vision, maybe we need medical attention instead of values. I quote my colleague Jürgen Ligi, with whom I have now, for various reasons, joined a group of people, namely those who incite society's hatred. Mr Ligi recently wrote in Postimees: 'I think that even Europeanism does not mean perfection: in finance and economics, he tends to celebrate the crisis, demographic failure, history, ideology and hypocrisy recently. ' If Estonia has so far, in contrast to European practices, saved half of the horseshoe, as a thrifty farmer, is it not Estonian custom and value or is it no longer? Maybe that's an exaggeration of comparison. Of course it is. Comparing is an exaggeration, but let it not be a different thing to compare thinkers with those who support the thinking that prevails in Russia. Okay. Let us consider the most important comparison, which is even the most painful. We are currently discussing a reform of the working capacity of 100,000 souls. We've just had an awful lot of speed with the law of cohabitation. There was a piece on it that didn't even have time to explain anything. It seemed that European values were in danger, as if the plague were following them. If so, Estonia was close to getting away: two fifths of the representatives of the people told two thirds of the people that he was wrong that he was dark and reactionary. What's left of the people to be ashamed of and thank that 40 wise men have saved the values that the people themselves had no idea of in their own foolishness. There are two ways in which an absconding donkey is known to move: by sticking its tail down a coal or holding a carrot in front of its nose. It worked well with coal, now it's carrot's turn. It is quite frankly said that the only reason for rushing to reform the capacity for work is the money that we expect from Europe. Compared to the subject mentioned earlier, this issue is boring and does not fuel passion; it is hardly accompanied by death threats, because 100,000 are an unfathomable number, a non-faced human community, an indeterminate number. How do you compare it to a few hundred cute faces and good mouths with a public figure who was so hard? You can be sure that there are no parties in bars to support these 100,000. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U105	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U106	You don't raise flags in their embassies. Is the press gonna rush into the fire for them? We're talking again about different, unfortunately different people who have no explanation for being born like this. But their woes are real, not imagined. All right, even though the difference in numbers is insane, it's not even the most important thing. It's not about numbers. The state must stand up for every person, as it stood up for cyclists who were in real trouble because of their recklessness, but still. All of Estonia was concerned about them and they were saved. In essence and from the point of view of human values, it is still the fact that these thousands of people with disabilities are also in real trouble; they are in trouble, which they are not responsible for in any way. Most of them weren't born that way, and on their own, they won't get relief. People with disabilities are also a minority, many of whom are of a age in which most of their lives were lived, and many of their partners have disappeared. Their first concern is not how to divide pots and pans and, frankly, they don't care whether their modest desire to live in dignity and be part of European values or not, if only they could get help to live and be. I am really looking forward to seeing if they too can get the gold-smooth spokespersons and whether the President calls for them to be protected as well. Let's not explain that we are going to help them, that we know very well how to do it. The thing is, we don't know that until they tell us how bad they are and what kind of help they should be. They say they don't listen. Several dozen organisations, namely those dealing with people with disabilities, have confirmed that the reform has not gone the right way and must be stopped. What is left of them but to come to the street, not under colorful flags, but in wheelchairs and crutches. Just now, one of the representatives of the people asked if his sincere love was anomaly. I don't know, it's gotta be a feeling thing. Even with the most sincere love, today you may love one, tomorrow you and the day after the third, or Liebe kommt und Liebe geht. A disability, however, is an eternal companion, and it is only the one who has a disability that can speak more accurately about living with him, coping with him, and failing to cope with him. I really want to hope that our limit on human love is not spent on very few, and that something remains for many. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U107	Thank you. I ask for the Riigikogu Chair Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U108	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen and, of course, honourable guests! I am not only a fiery advocate of this reform, but also one of its initiators. The Minister of Finance was at the beginning of this reform, but long before that, I was of the opinion and I also said that people with disabilities are the most neglected group of people in Estonia, and this is the shame of the Estonian state, which must be abolished. I have also said that the system of supporting people with disabilities is probably the most unsuccessful reform that has been carried out in Estonia over 20 years. The system doesn't work and people are being neglected. The system does not work because it is aimed at 'delivering' the disability without bringing people back to society, while access to the system has been essentially without requirements, which is why roughly one-tenth of the adult population is disabled, while in some areas their share is approaching a quarter. That is why it is very painful for me to listen to the criticism that is being made of the reform. It is mostly wrong, it is conscious of a lie, and it is also a hypocritical lie, even since people who were fierce advocates before the reform have changed their positions exactly to the opposite, on the other hand, of course, those who have now received a seat have begun to present this reform as their own personal favour. We should not do this to anyone; we should all take a joint responsibility and a common blame for the fact that the reform has not been done before. The standard charges are the same as usual. First of all, the bill's rushed, it's not ripe. This is a direct lie, the reform is too long awaited, it has been discussed for too long, it should be done. Secondly, there were no stakeholders involved. Sorry, there are few reforms with so many stakeholders involved. However, I cannot say that this would be a triumph of inclusion in order for us to see a golden egg coming in the form of proposals. The fact that one and the other half reads out how many words someone got and how many people were there is not the content of inclusion. Exchange of information means continuous hearing and is not counted in minutes. I'm sorry, but this time could have been used more effectively! What are the things that we meant when we initiated this reform, other than that we wanted to make people's lives better? I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U109	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U110	First of all, changing attitudes at all levels of society, among politicians, employers, employees, at all levels in municipalities and in the country. Secondly, the provision of services. The focus on people's ability to work, their return to society, their activation, was a definite goal. The firm goal was also to provide people with tools to help them regain their ability to work. Together with this, we naturally meant bringing people back to society. Finally, of course, money. Such a large amount of money has been planned for one reform in a short time, it is incredible that we have managed to do so. It's an honor for me, who's been considered a stingy person, that we've done it. I had no hesitation that this money should be contributed, and I have supported it. When a member of the House of Disabled People was asked what the good things were here, he read them. Consequently, these good things have basically been achieved, in principle, if we do not stop slowing down the reform. Against the background of the failure of the previous reform, we need to start looking at what are more general critical points. First of all, bureaucracy and demand for activity have been criticised. Friends, without the bureaucracy of this lashing, where everyone gets something and everyone gets too little, we can't get rid of it. Without the demand for activity, perhaps we will not get the most important thing in this reform: that people can be brought back to society, that they are not present, that they will not sit at home and receive small transfers of money. This criticism is not appropriate. Secondly, it has been criticised that not all proposals have been taken into account. Never will all proposals be gold, never will all proposals fall within the financial framework, never will the proposals support each other, but very often they are mutually destructive. It can't be that everyone is counted. It will then be criticised that this reform will not change the whole world, i.e. it will not change the whole social system. Friends, decisions have to be made one by one. If we want to change the whole world, we can't make any decisions. Yes, we have never planned to change the whole social system; we have planned to fill one of the most shameful gaps. Nor do we change the organisation of the whole country, education, cultural policy, defence policy. It has not been planned, but through a new attitude, the new drafts will bring change to society as a whole. Let us not hold back constructive debate and decisions with such ambitions. There have been complaints that people are changing in the ministry. I'm sorry, I could have spent that time on something else! People are changing, but it is not about the content of the reform. It has been pointed out that municipalities are weak. So when we discuss the issue of disabled people, do we hope to stop urbanization? Why are we talking about this for so long? There is also money for municipalities; it is even intended for those who care for themselves, who are not the subject of this reform, even though they have blocked a great deal of information channels and prevented this debate with very emotional words. We offer the municipalities 50 million euros. That's what we can do. We offer transport services, we even offer home restructuring, I believe there are EUR 6 000 per case. It has been criticised that there is no exit strategy for 2020. Anybody think they're gonna pull the wire out of the wall in 2020? This is the case with all the projects in the euro area that European money ends at one point and then we have to manage on our own. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Someone threatened someone to take the money away. Please, I'd like to see the person who said that! It is certainly not going to be taken away from reform, money from this system, nor taken away from anyone who has argued against it. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I'm about to finish the sentence. As somebody's subsidies decrease, this happens very rarely, but the amount of support has not been an objective. The goal is work ability and tools, which will be more. So let us be relevant!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U111	Your time is up. Thank you. It has been proposed to extend the sitting until the end of the debate, but no longer than 14 p.m. Let's get this vote right now. Mr Sooäär, the co-worker, has proposed that the session be extended until the end of the debate, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote. 21 votes in favour, no votes against or abstentions. The hearing is adjourned. Riigikogu speech chair Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U112	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I think there is reason to thank once again the people who are giving us this debate here today. It's extremely important. I think that it is also extremely important that the issue of people with disabilities has become such a keen social focus. These people live next door to us, there's a lot of them. In fact, it also concerns healthy people, because we have an extraordinary number of people with whom there has been or is a disabled person who must be helped. However, the approach to the reform of working capacity does not give me such confidence. I must admit that when I read the articles of critics, they are written by Tiina Kangro or Pille Ilves, I understand and understand, I am clear about the objectives and it is clear what the issues are unsolvable. However, when I listen to Minister Kruuse or the Prime Minister, it really seems that we need to use European money in a hurry, we reject the rules of procedure and push the solution of the problems somewhere remote. All of this reminds us of the situation that we'll do it first, then we'll think, and those who are thinking now, we don't want to listen enough for some reason. Yeah, time may be a pressure factor, but it's been dealt with long enough. I must admit that there has also been no clear continuity and logical targeting in the activities of the Ministry of Social Affairs. Yes, it is about the role and capacity of municipalities, the lack of additional incentives and the motivation of employers. It is also a question of priorities for solutions for people with disabilities. Firstly, are there sufficient support for people with disabilities already in employment during this reform and will this support be sufficient? The introduction of young people with disabilities into the labour market after school, which has been mentioned here for a moment, is, in my opinion, one of the key issues. This should be a priority, there should be no interruption, because if they are sidelined, this exclusion can be very long-lasting. Finally, it is important to point out the burden of releasing those who are caring for themselves, so that they too can participate in the labour market. They are now very heavily at home. However, one question that does not give me peace is precisely the purpose of completing these draft laws and the whole process. It was mentioned earlier that the concept and the development plan were missing. Recently, an important document of the National Audit Office came to our tables, which says, among other things, that the management of processes is often not based on analysis or knowledge. I think this applies very precisely to this bill. I, by the way, wanted to put this question to the chairman of the committee, but there was no way of doing so, because he felt it necessary to answer his groupmate's question at an extraordinarily long time. It seemed that it was artificial to avoid the following questions. Yes, several ministers and officials have participated in the preparation of these drafts. If all the questions were clear, maybe that wouldn't be a problem. But I also have a problem as to why those who initially dealt with it in the ministry, I mean also officials, have quit. Another problem. Indeed, I must say that at first I did not fully understand the respectable coalition, which is why two ministers are needed in the social sphere. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U113	Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U114	I don't really get it right now either. It seems to me that political responsibility would be much clearer if these issues were clearly resolved and it was clear who was ultimately dealing with this matter. Helmen Kütt has made criticism, and in the meantime, he has not spoken today. In fact, I would expect a position from him here. It seems to me that I would rather entrust the future governance of the process to the Socialists than to the Reform Party, who have done so for too long and left too many questions unanswered. If this is not the case, then in such cases, if a project comes from the government that should be turned on top of its head, the Riigikogu should also have the opportunity to show more initiative. Yes, it is true that the Commission has worked very hard on this subject and has held very many hearings. But I have the question that we should actually be able to do if the drafts do not meet any standards or if some questions are unanswered at the moment, I mean especially support services, demand a new draft, or we should have a competence that the Riigikogu lacks in order to develop these things on its own. I know that with the collective appeal of persons with disabilities, someone worked very long in the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, as in other collective appeals, to check whether the signatures are genuine and whether the personal identification numbers are correct. There will be nearly 4,000 signatures and then they will be checked in this way and the petitioners will be required to have an Excel table. It is not effective and wise to use public resources. Instead, we should have more competence here to deal with matters in substance and, if necessary, also bring the draft critics to the table so that they can present their alternative. Unfortunately, the working hours of this Riigikogu have been very short and therefore I do not have much faith in the success of this process. We've lost a lot of time before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U115	Thank you. I ask for the Riigikogu speech chair Imre Sooääre!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U116	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have very personal experience with the subject we are discussing today. My father is also severely disabled and in a wheelchair, as is one of the previous speakers. I know very well what it means to my mother and my whole family, and how people with disabilities feel. Trees are very different and situations are very different. I think that the most important point on which we are discussing today is that we are taking one step towards a more individualised approach to each situation in the future. There are people who have burned their lives and made their own situation harder, people who have been born with disabilities. My father, for example, said that that morning when he woke up in the hospital in Magdalene after surgery without knowing that he had his leg cut off, that if someone had told him ten years ago that he could lose his leg because of smoking, he would have stopped smoking immediately. He stopped smoking and drinking the very day he woke up in Magdalene Hospital and found out he had no leg. It is precisely because each situation is different that the country must find ways to approach each person, each case, individually. That is what this reform allows. My father spent his life doing hard physical work, yet he has now learned how to use a computer in a wheelchair and is communicating with his family all over the world through Skype. He has found a new spark to find joy in his life. I think that this is what people with disabilities need most, they need to be understood so that they are understood, that they are not viewed as outcasts of society, but are involved and seen as part of society. Yes, in the dark Middle Ages, people with disabilities were viewed as outcasts of society, once stoned. However, society has evolved over the centuries and we involve these people in society, but not enough. The way we see these people as part of society and the opportunities we give them starts with attitude. If you look at this reform, I think it is important that we already have EUR 5.3 million in next year's budget for aid, EUR 7 million for informal care and an amount of EUR 50 million to promote local government programmes. There are still such allocations in the state budget. It is important that we do not stop now, finding that there are other matters to be resolved somewhere. Yeah, I'm sure there is, and there's always something left unsolved. But I think it is irresponsible for some politicians, both using this elocutor and through the press, to try to cut political professionalism for others. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U117	Yes, the elections are coming and it is very easy to talk about a completely different garden and a completely different garden hole, which is also important, but it does not specifically concern this reform, the needy and the questions we are talking about here. I see here a real parallel to the Cohabitation Act procedure, when some politicians were useful in distracting and cutting off political professionalism. To sum up, the story was that people no longer understood exactly what was being said here in this context, because someone had managed to direct the discussion to other topics. This reform, too, has caused uncertainty, confusion in many people because they do not understand exactly what comes and what does not come, who wins or loses what. I think that all of us politicians, together, still have quite a lot to do to bring these issues closer to the people, to explain in more detail what opportunities there are, and to show the positive aspects in it. There is certainly more positive in this reform than can or dares to say by the critics who have stood up to this reform. It was during this session that the audit report of the National Audit Office on the reform of working capacity was sent to us. I would like to quote the words of the Auditor General, which he wrote to send to the Riigikogu an overview of the use and disposal of state assets in 2013/2014. The Commission's assessment of the compatibility of the aid with the internal market is based on the following considerations: His words concern not only this reform, but also very many other reforms in our society, because what he says is actually universal: 'Estonia's people must be ready to change themselves, change their thinking, look at the situation clearly and support those who are willing to make the necessary decisions and try not to make them, imagining or wanting to imagine that one or the other fundamental issue can be solved by forming another Commission or by burying more and more money in a non-working system. It would be pointless even if we had too much money. We don't have the money. " Let us make good use of the money we have, including the aid that comes from Europe. Let us see the problems as a whole and look for solutions. Let us support one another in this: let us not throw the wedge where it does not need to be hit. This would not support or benefit people with special needs. They need attention, they deserve more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U118	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U119	Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U120	Liisa-Ly Pakosta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U121	I'm a guy with such a long story.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U122	I will start with two world-view positions and then try to bring these issues into focus. First of all, it is very important that people work and work hard. I am absolutely convinced that doing decent work is a question of human dignity; it is a question of human rights. I am also absolutely convinced that Estonia needs absolutely every working hand. Anyone who can do something and can do it should do it. I am therefore extremely sorry that, for example, the new Child Protection Act, which was discussed yesterday, excludes children's right to work properly and their right to self-realisation. These are sections that are not reflected in any other act of the Republic of Estonia. If I have raised the question that children should have the right to work properly, then I have received the answer that Estonian employers are not prepared to give sufficient guidance to minors and their lack of preparation to deal with people with less work experience, or minors. As a reminder, I am talking here, for example, about 17-year-old young people. My second very clear world-view conviction is that solutions in a small, good country like Estonia must be cost-effective and have long-term effects. I stress both sides, both cost-effective and long-term positive, just in case. I do not consider this to be a distraction, on the contrary. If we look at what will help all people to contribute to Estonia as they can, we can see that the most cost-effective solutions have been left out of attention. Only yesterday were the amendments to the pre-school institution law at third reading here. There is a proverb in Estonian as well as probably in the languages of all other peoples, no matter how it is set, but it sounds about that it can bend only a tiny, no longer a log noise. We know how much more cost-effective it is to help a person with disabilities or special needs when he is still a young child, we know how much it is possible to win at such a age, if anything else can be changed, if anything else can be done, and how many later problems can be prevented from happening in early childhood. Unfortunately, the same hall only yesterday decided that because we do not have the money or because local authorities now suddenly do not have enough money, we will replace childcare facilities for children of the most fragile age, or for children up to four years of age. I will explain why I am bringing this issue up again in this debate today. In kindergartens, educators with higher education must work, who have been specifically trained to see the special needs that children may need and to seek help to overcome them quickly. Childcare can be very good, but there is no requirement for a babysitter to have knowledge of it, and this bill does not. Yes, the highest-level babysitters really need to have these skills when they are caring for children with special needs, but unfortunately this is not mandatory in the childcare facilities to which children are entitled. Yesterday, 15 years passed from the day the city government led by Jüri Mõisa started working in Tallinn. I also had the opportunity to work there as an assistant mayor in charge of education. I consider it a great achievement that we made the Apple Day Care for children with very severe disabilities in Mustamägi. Since then, there has been a relative silence once again. I have been in contact with a large number of families with children with special needs, and I can see with pain how time goes and goes, but these same rehabilitation services and other support services are late and late, the queues for doctors are long, the child is growing, and the time to forgive me for using this word in this context is once again missed or increasingly missed. Nor have we found solutions for providing support services in schools or for children with special needs to be fully educated and prepared to enter the labour market. Only recently, the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu went to Tallinn School on my proposal, where deaf children are taught. We saw the school making efforts to help deaf children to live in their daily life, but since they are not getting support from anywhere, their strength is limited and the chances for deaf children to receive upper secondary school education are no longer real. Yesterday in this hall, under the leadership of the Reform Party and the Social Democratic Party, we stated that we do not have the capacity to provide a kindergarten place for all children who need it. In the Republic of Estonia, we do not have the capacity to offer a kindergarten place even to children with special needs. Children with special needs are the ones who often lose their place in kindergarten due to a shortage of suitable places. By the way, mothers or fathers of children who have not received a day care position do not work. They have not given up working voluntarily, but because they are forced to care for a child at home. Here was a positive example from the Netherlands, where the problems with people with special needs have been addressed well. By the way, the Netherlands is a country where, on the next working day after the application is submitted, you can also get a suitable day-care or day-care place for a child with special needs. In order for our solutions, which Estonia really needs to be able to work properly, to have cost-effective and long-term positive effects, we need to pay more attention to early childhood and school education. Only then can we say that we have done something with really cost-effective and long-term positive effects so that every person in Estonia can do their job decently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U123	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U124	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Special Committee on State Budget Control is constantly cooperating with the National Audit Office, which is our main function. As Chairman of this committee, I consider it necessary to present the views of the National Audit Office to you in the course of today's debate. In fact, the National Audit Office considers three prerequisites necessary for the reform to succeed. Firstly, the reform is intended to be financed initially from euro money. The money from the European Structural Funds is intended to change the system, and it is not the money for which it could be maintained. Although one of the objectives of the reform is to contain ever-increasing costs, it is still not known how to finance the system in the future, at a time when euro money can no longer be used. The National Audit Office's inquiries have been answered that this remains the decision of the next government. For each expenditure, however, it must be considered whether the chosen path is the most appropriate one. We must ask ourselves whether we would reform even if we did not have euro money. Probably, because we don't have a choice. But would we do it exactly the way we do it now? From now on, we will have to cover these costs from our own money and it will be extremely irresponsible to postpone one of the most important decisions for the future in terms of the sustainability of this reform. The original draft explanatory memorandum already sets out three options for organising future funding: from the unemployment fund's money, the state budget or both, in terms of the agreed share. How exactly to do this, however, requires a social debate that has so far been avoided. So let me sum up the first assumption. We need to know exactly how we will finance this reform when European money no longer comes. A debate is needed for this. The second assumption. It is important that people who have already lost their capacity to work are fully supported by the state and, together with other parties, have the opportunity to return to work. At the same time, it must not be forgotten that the reform will only be truly successful if it no longer grows after a new generation of inability to work. Although issues related to the working environment, such as the implementation of the insurance system for accidents at work and occupational diseases, were also strongly highlighted in the initial plans of the reform, this has been abandoned at a later stage. As a number of those involved in the reform have stressed, the reform should not be carried out in such a way that the whole is unthinkable. If we only deal with the consequences and not with the causes, then we will not be able to save any costs in the future. The working environment must improve, workers' demands on the working environment must increase, and employers' responsibility for this environment must be increased in order to prevent incapacity for work. It should not be forgotten that, as long as it is not possible to make the employer liable for loss of work capacity, the costs incurred must be borne jointly by society. It is therefore necessary to consider and implement an effective prevention system that has not been addressed in the reform process. Another action plan has been prepared for the meeting of the Government Office for the development of the basics of insurance for accidents at work and occupational diseases. The National Audit Office believes that many know that this is a topic that has been dealt with by all governments in the last 20 years, but has not been reached anywhere. The follow-up audit of the National Audit Office deals with the state's activities in ensuring a safe working environment, it sets out the chronology of handling this topic in government during one period, which should make it blush. I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U125	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U126	Now I am talking about the third prerequisite for this reform to succeed. Most of the need for reform is not called into question, it is discussed whether the state and society are ready for it and whether we are capable of doing so. In the opinion of the National Audit Office, the implementation of a new methodology for assessing the ability to work has raised concerns. Under no circumstances will the professionalism of professionals who have created and tested this system to a limited extent so far be called into question. But such a far-reaching reform, which requires a change of mindset, can only succeed if we are absolutely sure of the methodology. The National Audit Office keeps up to date with the work and activities of its colleagues. For example, about ten years ago, the UK National Audit Office carried out a devastating assessment of the same reform. There, the weak preparatory work was followed by a number of inadequate assessments and trials. 30% of the cases in which the assessment of the capacity to work was carried out were appealed. The main argument of the complainants was that an unvalidated methodology was used which did not allow for a proper assessment of the extent of the capacity to work. The National Audit Office has added to its opinion a quote from Benjamin Franklin: 'The foolish rarely learn from their mistakes, the wise men learn from the mistakes of others, but the happiest ones are those who learn to be careful because of the difficulties of others. ' I agree with the National Audit Office that it is worth remembering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U127	Thank you. Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U128	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I felt like I had to come here. I didn't really want to, I didn't have the inner will, but the inner compulsion was. There was no wanting, because the stick I use to move was left behind, but I don't feel so good walking without it. I want not to be polite, but I really want to thank from the heart the people who have provoked and organised today's debate and all those who have spoken here today and asked questions. I think that for many of us, thanks to this debate, this huge issue became a little clearer. Why are we even discussing here today? That's because the money you're gonna share isn't enough. The problems are great; they are considerably more than they could and could fit into today's debate. But what do we do? The situation became much clearer to me. Most of the speakers I would like to thank Margus Tsahkna and Jürgen Ligi, as well as our Mr Chairman. When you read these three speeches, I think you will be able to answer many questions. Understand that no reform will ever be as complete as Stalnukhin wanted the methodology to be one hundred percent available and everything would be top-topped. At one point, the reform simply needs to be done. Is this the right moment to be decided by the MPs when these drafts come to this debate? That is why I call on you to discuss and think. I believe that, as a result of the debate and thinking, this reform will be better. No reform can be seen to be all nuances. Only certain moments can be seen and the fears associated with them were answered by Margus Tsahkna, Jürgen Ligi, our gentleman's chairman and all of you who went to this station today. Thank you for that. Let us think further and work on these drafts both within and outside the Commission. I think we'll get a reform that will take our lives forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-06_U129	Thank you. There will be no further speeches. But given the fact that we probably have more monitors than usual today, I recall what the law regulating the work of the Riigikogu means by dealing with a crucial national issue. The Riigikogu commission has initiated a discussion of the matter, during the debate presentations, questions can be submitted to rapporteurs and negotiations will take place afterwards. As this is a debate, a decision cannot be taken on this point. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 13.34 p.m.
