ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Members of the Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Prime Minister and Ministers. Let's start today's briefing. Please, let's do the presence check first! 33 members of the Riigikogu were registered as present and 68 members are absent. The following members of government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts and Minister of Foreign Affairs Urmas Paet. Today we have seven previously registered topics. Two on-the-spot questions can be submitted for each subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U2	Let's get to the questions. First, please ask a question to Kadri Samson, the birthday boy! The question is for Prime Minister Andrus Ansip.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U3	Thank you. Prime Minister! You have also served as Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications in your previous life. It is therefore appropriate to ask you for an assessment of what is happening now. You are undoubtedly aware, on the one hand, that this area is extensive and that complex decisions are needed there, but on the other hand, your Cabinet Minister, Juhan Parts, sitting at your right hand, has been wrong in recent weeks of diplomacy against both the simplest basics of diplomacy and the organisation of government's work, leaving her activities uncoordinated with regard to the LNG terminal in Finland. I have a very simple question: how are you satisfied with the work of Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U4	Thank you. The guy happens. Of course, good things better happen than bad things. Unfortunately, from time to time, we also face unpleasantness. For the inappropriate use of words, Juhan Parts has already apologized, the Lithuanians have said that this is the end of the matter. I think that we in Estonia could also consider this matter to be complete. We will discuss the connection between the LNG terminal and, more generally, the gas market in Estonia and Finland at the study session tomorrow. The integration of markets is based on the Balticconnector pipeline connection, which I do not want to give up lightly. But these discussions are still ahead of us. We will hear the arguments of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, on the basis of which the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has considered it possible, at least initially, to abandon the construction of the pipeline as a project funded by the European Union over the next five years. Let us hear these arguments and the government will then make a useful decision for Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U5	Please, Mr Simson, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U6	Thank you, Prime Minister. I'm not going to deal with Lithuania anymore. Let's hope this language doesn't come into real life because the "Soft and Hairy" show is over on the TV screen. But you mentioned that you're discussing the LNG terminal tomorrow. At the same time, you yourself have made a comment to the Estonian Päevaleht and said that Juhan Parts has made a presentation on LNG terminal with proposals that differ from the viewpoints of the government. I have the impression from your words that the government has already shaped a position. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has stated that the proposal to divide the LNG terminal submitted to Finland is not contrary to the Government's previous position. Do you think the minister exceeded his mandate during his visit to Finland or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U7	We will probably discuss this matter thoroughly tomorrow. But I have said from this speaker board and also at the press conference that Estonia and Finland have three choices on this issue. The most favourable solution for Estonia would be if the terminal came to Estonia and Finns could get a pipeline connection. If the terminal were to become Incosed and Estonia would be connected to the pipeline, it would probably be the second best solution for Estonia and probably the best solution for Finns. The worst solution would be if neither of them got anything. That's not the solution I want. One of the proposals that Juhan Parts made in an interview with the newspaper does not provide for the construction of a pipeline, but for the construction of two terminals. I do not think that this is a good proposal. It would not integrate markets; gas markets would remain separate even after these terminals were completed. Let us just remember what happened in Ukraine. When gas prices rose cosmically there, natural gas transferred to Germany through Nord Stream began to be pumped back to Ukraine. The gas that came through Germany was cheaper for the Ukrainians than the gas that came directly from Russia. The pipeline between Estonia and Finland would also give our gas customers more security. To my mind, it is not possible to compensate for the cancellation of a pipeline by setting a ship to curate. There is also the question of what powers the Government of the Republic has given to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications. This is what I will tell you by answering the next question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U8	Please, Mr Kadri Simson, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U9	Thank you, Prime Minister. You mentioned three possible versions of the LNG terminal. As an observer, it seems to me that Latvia, which was initially accepting that the LNG terminal would come to the shore of the Gulf of Finland, may see that decisions have not yet been taken and may change its initial position. Have you or the Minister for Economic Affairs had contacts with Latvian colleagues? Are you sure that Latvia will not propose again that the LNG terminal be built in Latvia?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U10	Thank you. The Boozi report, which was prepared for the European Commission, provided either Estonia or Finland with the best location for the LNG terminal. This preference was primarily due to the existence of a pipeline connection. If there is no pipeline connection, if the banks of the Gulf of Finland are simply built here and there are small terminals, then, of course, the question is absolutely justified as to why the terminal could not be built in Riga or why the Klaipeda project could not be renamed a regional project and then all these projects could be financed equally. It should be said that the Estonian Government has not decided that the LNG terminal in Estonia should then be located in Paldiski and not in the Estonian State's Tallinn Harbour in Muuga. Of course, you might ask why it couldn't be on Sillamäe. If there is no pipeline connection, it is also possible to choose between more than one location in Estonia. The Latvians have actually already activated; they have signalled their desire to have a terminal funded by the European Union. The Lithuanians are not yet alert.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U11	Two locally registered questions can now be submitted. Starts with colleague Heimar Lenk.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U12	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Prime Minister! We're talking about working with our neighbors. I'm coming back to the Lithuanian case. If you look at the recent history, the words of your government ministers could make a whole book. Consider, for example, the expressions of Rein Lang or Jürgen Ligi. Right now, we're talking about Juhan Parts and jerks. You can also recall seeds, foil, etc. Do you not feel that you should train ministers to improve their speech and to be a little more polite? A little bit too arrogant for both the media and the public, I have the impression. They're being arrogance to us in this room too.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U13	I agree that it is possible to make a book of ministerial statements, and I believe that this book would be quite interesting. I don't think the same is true of a book that could be drawn up on the basis of questions from a good questioner.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U14	Please, Mr Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U15	Thank you. I don't think my question ever gets between book covers, but I'll ask. I'm going back to the LNG terminal. Good Prime Minister! You've ranked three options, according to your opinion, in the ranking. After you commented on the words of the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications that Finland could actually have its own terminal and Estonia's own LNG terminal. Did I understand correctly that if the fourth option, which I have just described, was added to these three options, this would be after the option, according to which the LNG terminal in Finland would be connected to Estonia via a pipeline? Let me get this straight. This option would be better than the one offered by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U16	Thank you. Yeah, I'd like to rank those four options the way you do. That fourth option would be better than nothing in my eyes, but close enough. This option has been proposed and I have been very superficially familiar with it. I can say that this absolutely does not satisfy the needs of our natural gas consumers. I have not seen the connection of Paldiski LNG terminal to the gas core network in Estonia in any plan. But there will be a debate tomorrow, so we will hear what these plans are like. It should be noted that the connection between the terminal in Paldiski and the network of Eesti Gaas is about 50 kilometres long, while the connection between the terminal in Muuga and the network is about 12 kilometres long. There's a different price. Ships travel mainly to the port of Muuga. If this terminal were designed to be suitable for refueling ships and if all ships sailing in the Baltic Sea, or even in our ports, would switch to natural gas, this would essentially mean doubling the gas market in Estonia. After all, the ships mainly go to Muuga and it makes sense to refuel them there, not to send Tallink to refuel the ships that are cursing between Helsinki and Tallinn, for example, somewhere in Paldiski. New choices are also emerging within Estonia. But in my opinion, the preferred option is certainly to have a pipeline connection in Estonia and Finland.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U17	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U18	The next question is from my colleague, Karel Rüütel, to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U19	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! Experts have pointed out that the total area of 570 square kilometres of the circa, i.e. 1,3% of the area of Estonia, is currently under the road and rail network. If you add here an impact zone of existing main and supporting roads that extends one kilometre from two sides of the road, it is clear that this network already takes over almost 18% of the territory of Estonia. By comparison, the same size of the land area of Estonia has been taken into protection. How will the planning and construction of Rail Baltic achieve a balance between the revenue generated by the major project and the cost of its environmental impact? Are you convinced that the mitigation measures foreseen in the project for the environment are sufficient?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U20	Thank you. Today I can say that there are three main lines of action for the national preparation of the Rail Baltic project. First, route options are considered. In parallel, a strategic environmental assessment of potential advantage races has been launched, followed by a technical preliminary design. I think that the issue of possible measures to compensate for and offset environmental impacts will be resolved during the strategic environmental impact assessment. Today, without a comprehensive approach, it would be an asset to get very detailed when talking about such a large infrastructure project. According to the graph, the strategic environmental assessment should take place at the end of the first quarter at the earliest, but given the addition of new variants of the route, especially in Harjumaa, we must also be prepared for a few months' delay.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U21	Please, Mr Karel Rüütel, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U22	Thank you. Good minister! It is known that land and its natural diversity are under constant pressure to build, upgrade and expand transport infrastructure. The main argument for the location of the Rail Baltic route in Estonia is its length, i.e. it must be as short as possible to send a temporal and financial victory. Are the calculations correct to take into account the extensive damage caused to the natural environment by the inter-Estonian forest line? Why hasn't the route been considered near Via Baltica? The costs of mitigating measures needed for the environment would then be much lower and possibly outweigh the overall cost of two-tier crossings on the road.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U23	I dare say that all these issues have been addressed and will continue to be addressed (of course, depending on the level of detail of the research). As regards whether the route from Tallinn to Riga passes through Tartu or Pärnu, two science-based activities are important here, where society or the general public are involved: the preparation of the general plan of the state "Estonia 2030+" and the strategic study of the possible direction of the route commissioned by the European Commission on the basis of the initial task given by the Estonian, Latvian and Lithuanian governments. On the basis of this, we have based our approach on the development of economic profitability in Tallinn-Pärnu-Riga. Work is being done to explain, taking into account all aspects, which routes in this direction are most cost-effective and have the least environmental impact. What's the final race? I think that this decision will be taken in the coming months or at least in the first half of the year. All materials are public. I believe that the experts also have the answer to the question of whether the route could have been closer to the road.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U24	Please, Mr Karel Rüütel, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U25	Thank you. Good minister! How do you assess whether the studies on the impact on the natural environment carried out during the planning process have been sufficient? Do you know what other studies are planned to do to find out what impact this route will have on the natural environment?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U26	The studies will be carried out continuously. During the planning process alone, studies of different levels of detail have been initiated. A very detailed study, including the environmental impact (which I think you asked about), can still be carried out once a fundamental decision has been reached on which route is preferred. A detailed environmental impact study may always reveal circumstances that require a review of previous decisions. We can't rule that out. But it's a public process. In my opinion, it is very well launched, because the communities and regions affected by this issue are involved. There's a lot of opinions. It is very pleasant that in many regions we are quite close to agreements when we look at the Pärnu or Rapla region. The situation in Harju County is more complicated. I agree that even if there is an agreement on the advantage race, the next phase of the project will be followed up by micro-level environmental studies.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U27	Two locally registered questions can now be submitted. Starts with my colleague Jaan Apple Tree.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U28	Thank you. Dear Minister, Yesterday, the people of your ministry briefed the members of the Economic Commission on the state of play of the project. We have been talking a lot about getting in touch with Europe's major centres with Rail Baltic. What we are talking about now is that, in a good case, the route extends to the Lithuanian-Polish border. You said on Monday in a radio interview that at the time of the decision there were two lines on the sieve in Estonia, but Vilnius was not listed anywhere in Lithuania. I wonder how it really was. The second question is the route of maintenance costs. For example, how much will it cost the taxpayer of the Estonian state to maintain this route in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U29	I'll start at the back. The current basis for joint action between Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania is a study commissioned by the governments of three countries, called the AECOM survey. AECOM is an international consultancy firm with a strong link to new rail infrastructure projects in different parts of Europe. This study also provides the answer to the business plan you asked for. This is a very simplified business plan drawn up on the basis of currently known figures and current knowledge. We know that there are opponents in several countries on the one hand and on the other. Opponation at this stage is, in my opinion, natural. But the business plan is that when we talk about up to 85% of investment support for infrastructure, operating this infrastructure must be cost-effective. In other words, 15% of the investments must be able to be made by the joint venture over which we have had lengthy talks. Operation must also be cost-effective. That's the answer. The question certainly arises as to whether both freight and passenger transport can operate without any motivation. The AECOM study says yes, it's possible. But I repeat, we are in a phase where the cost-benefit questions also need to be reviewed when new information becomes available that the cost of investment will be more expensive. If I remember correctly, the beginning of your question was about this choice: Tartu versus Pärnu. This is a very important issue. We have been discussing this at different levels, I dare say, for at least ten years. Important information is still what is... We're out of time. Order's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U30	I would like to ask you a question registered on the spot, my colleague Urve Palo.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U31	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You said that the business plan was based on AECOM's analysis and forecast. This same forecast says that in 2020 more than 3,000 people should travel from Tallinn to Pärnu every day. Today, about 2,000 people travel from Tallinn to Pärnu by bus and car each day. Even if we expect half of them to take the train, which is also a very, very positive assessment, we still need to find more than 2,000 people who are suddenly going from Tallinn to Pärnu every day. Do you believe in the prognosis? If so, what is your faith based on? Personally, I am not against Rail Baltic, but I do want the analyses and forecasts to be competent so that they don't happen to Estonian Air or to Elron's train traffic.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U32	I have a proposition. This AECOM study now has a lot of opponents in 2014, when it comes to concrete. Who writes in Delfi, who's on his blog, who's on Facebook. I think it would also make sense, with the help of the Riigikogu and the Committee on Economic Affairs, to rediscover forecasts for freight transport and passenger transport, which are not written when looking at the ceiling. There is a methodology for how these forecasts are made for new infrastructure projects in view of the specificities of the regions. I think it would be wise to have a new meeting with experts to get very concrete answers. I have had meetings in several regions of Estonia where exactly the same questions arose. I think we need these answers. For example, people in Kehtna's community hall also asked about the number of people that they might realize. I believe that, at this stage of planning, we need to go a little further into the way in which cost-benefit analyses are carried out. It is not a question of believing or not believing, but we can be based on the opinion of the best experts we have chosen in cooperation with the European Commission. Experts planning such transport investments can certainly be found in Europe. That's my proposal. Then we could also increase your faith in this particular number.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U33	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U34	The next question is from my colleague, Enn Front, to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Urmas Paet. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U35	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, My question is based on the dark sides of inadequate wording in human, national and transnational relations. The customs have naturally changed over the centuries. It can be expected that if Lehola Lembitu had used about the same furry expressions as Juhan Parts today for the first king of Lithuania, Mindaugas, and his staff, then the war would have been open. It's enough to apologize these days. And thank God, because there are other problems with Baltic cooperation. However, I ask how long cases of this kind, in order not to say scandals, have an impact on international communication. After all, it is well - known how favorable personal contacts are for dealing with matters. Is the effects of negative aspects equally felt?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U36	Thank you. I think this particular incident has clearly gotten under the line today. All parties have accepted excuses and explanations and have made it very clear that agreements are being sought on important matters where agreement is needed and that this incident does not interfere with this. How long memory one person has and how he uses his memory is difficult for me to say. But when it comes to communicating directly between countries, this particular case has a line under it today.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U37	A question registered on the spot, Mr Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U38	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I will relate my question to the previous issue. How do you assess your cooperation with your Lithuanian colleague on Rail Baltic issues? Do you have very good cooperation?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U39	Thank you. As on many other issues, the cooperation of foreign ministers on this matter is very good. In the case of Rail Baltic, it is somewhat easier to say, because the details need to be dealt with by economic ministers, ministers of the interior or other ministers. We have a common understanding with the Lithuanian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Foreign Affairs that a new rail link with another Europe is needed by all the Baltic States. There hasn't been any disagreements.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U40	Thank you very much, Minister of Foreign Affairs. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U41	The next question is from my colleague, Heljo Pikhof, to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U42	Thank you. Prime Minister! There are thousands of families with one parent in Estonia who have lost the child's second parent's help because it does not fulfil the child's maintenance obligation. The survivors, mostly fathers, whistle to judicial decisions which should make them comply with maintenance obligations. Despite the judgments, the state has not been able to ensure that children receive a living allowance for many years. Why is the state not ensuring the enforcement of judgments, and why are single mothers left alone?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U43	Thank you. It is certainly not the country that leaves the single mothers alone. On the contrary, the country has foreseen a large number of measures that support parents raising children alone. But it is true that 24% of Estonian children are growing with one parent, 92% of them being mother and 8% father. In most cases, parents raising a child on their own also receive support from another parent of the child, while in 10 to 15% of cases, the other parent avoids the payment of maintenance allowance. The state has provided for a number of sanctions and measures to call these parents to order. It was only yesterday that the Ministry of Justice made new proposals on how to force parents who refrain from paying a living allowance to carry out their duties. I put all my parents' hearts to participate in raising their children and not to refrain from paying a living allowance on any pretext. It is also a deeply social issue; it is a matter for employers, because it is not usually done alone by those who evade the payment of a living allowance, but it has involved their employer, their new partner husband and other persons. In my opinion, society should take a negative and deplorable view of these aides.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U44	Please, Mr Pikhof, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U45	Thank you. Perhaps this time we should take the example of Latvia, where, after the creation of the deposit guarantee fund, the collection of money improved considerably. This was mainly due to the fact that a parent who avoided the payment of a maintenance allowance became a debtor to the state. Right now, we have a mother who has to carry out this whole process, but it's quite expensive, and it's going to take a lot of nerves. Nor is it guaranteed that the child's maintenance allowance will be paid for. How would you feel if we took the example of Latvia this time? The Social Democrats have also submitted a draft for the creation of a fund for guaranteeing maintenance money in Estonia, which exists in most European Union Member States.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U46	Thank you. The deposit guarantee fund is not a miracle tool of any kind. If one maintenance claimer is replaced by another and nothing is changed in the process of collecting the maintenance allowance, even if this other claimer is the Republic of Estonia, the problems will remain the same. If all the burden is placed on this foundation, it means that those decent parents who care for and pay for their children, if their life has separated them from their spouse, will have to pay not only to raise their children but also to raise children whose parents or one parent does not care about raising their child. However, sanctions against evaders should be enhanced. I fully agree that some of the proposals proposed yesterday, such as the withdrawal of the right to drive, may seem too harsh and disproportionate, but such proposals are very appropriate to launch the debate. Taking off a driver's license is not uncommon in the world. In Australia, Canada and the United States, this system works. Why not cash out the other pension pillar of the person who evades the payment of child maintenance allowance? Any suggestion on how, figuratively speaking, to make life a hell of a people who don't pay their living money is welcome. The use of these proposals should be considered. Only the transfer of liabilities to the State will not solve the problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U47	Please, Mr Pikhof, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U48	It is not only in Estonia that maintenance payments are avoided, but in other Member States of the European Union that sanctions are used against them. The important thing is that a child gets a living every month. That's why this fund is necessary. If the money is not paid from the parent, sometimes there is a deliberate non-payment, but sometimes there is no possibility to pay, then the state or that institution would in any case pay the parent some amount each month. This amount is 118 euros in Finland and 45 euros in Latvia. I think that we could also think about it instead of talking about child poverty in a form that does not improve the situation. After all, 40% of single - parent children live in poverty.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U49	Thank you. I totally agree with what you're saying. Avoiding maintenance payments leads to a considerable proportion of children below the poverty line. However, there are almost no children living below the limit of relative or absolute poverty among the recipients of the allowance. So the payment of a living allowance is also of paramount importance in terms of child poverty. However, I would like to stress once again that we need to change the attitude of society towards people who avoid paying their children a living allowance. Yes, populistly, a problem can be considered solved when a fund is created to which all anonymous taxpayers will jointly and severally pay money, but a substantive solution can still arise only if the parent starts to pay the child a living allowance if he or she does not take care of the child himself. We're going to have to change the atmosphere anyway.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U50	Now the questions registered on the spot. Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U51	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! This issue has been discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs for years, probably 15 years, as far as I can remember. But I have the feeling that the Commission has been given a too difficult task, because the question is still legal and covers the problem more broadly. For example, yesterday's event was not attended by the representatives of the Committee on Legal Affairs, yet it is the enforcement of judicial decisions. The problem is that the decisions of the court have not been settled. At the same time, I can see that the country has not been very interested in this question, that is what remains a matter between two people. What do you think of the responsibility of the state and when do you think the state will make this issue a priority? That is a very important question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U52	Thank you. No country can replace people-to-people relationships. People should care about raising their children. No one in society should contribute to evading the payment of child support. No one should do that! However, there are cases where parents who have material opportunities to pay their children a living allowance avoid it and do so with the help of their workmates and family members. Such a tolerant attitude towards exclusion from the payment of maintenance allowances should end in society. The country's wider priority is for people to raise their children or, if families have broken up, to participate in raising their children by paying a living allowance. This is an undisputed priority. It is estimated that 85 to 90% of Estonian parents perform their parent's duties; they participate in raising a child, at least fulfilling the minimum required by the law, i.e. paying a living allowance. In half of the cases, both parents raise their children; they participate together in financing and also in education. The picture is not as comforting as the questioner has shown, but also 10 to 15% of their children are unacceptably excluded from raising their children.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U53	The last issue registered on the spot. Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U54	Thank you, Madam President. Good Prime Minister! If there's a standard situation that the children's father doesn't want to pay for a living, but stays out of it, then it's up to the police to find him, some of the collection companies are seizing his bank accounts, and everything should work out. But there are quite a few non-standard situations when the father of the children has disappeared abroad, no one knows he is alive or not at all, the mother is not even able to divorce him because there is nothing to know about his father's fate. It is not always possible to leave these problems to the mother, the so-called raven father and the police to solve them. In certain cases, should the state not, however, provide this help to the growing children, which would certainly be cheaper than rehabilitating the crooked adults afterwards?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U55	Thank you. The status of a single parent is quite different from that of a child or a parent who requires maintenance allowance from another parent of his or her child. The children of single parents have also received a kind of protection from the state in law. If one of the parents of the child, as you mentioned, is missing, unable to be found or dead, then other social services can also be used to help the child. The child is entitled to a survivor's pension. Need-based child support is increasing, helping a large number of children out of the risk of poverty. Each case must be analysed separately and a solution must be found for each person in need.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U56	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U57	The next question is from my colleague, Priit Toobal, to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Urmas Paet. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. At the beginning of this year, Defence Minister Reinsalu, Washington, gave a speech at the Centre for Strategic and International Studies on NATO's capabilities, development and challenges. Reinsalu repeatedly pointed out in his speech that the strategic military balance in the Baltic States was not for the benefit of the alliance, but for the benefit of other countries. He clearly invented Russia and said it. He also recalled the departure of the last tank from Europe last spring and stated that Estonia missed this tank. Do you agree with Reinsalu's statement in this sense that Estonia needs a stronger US military presence? Or do you think the current situation, the good way through, and the fact that we are certain allies with the United States will suffice?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U59	Thank you. Every time something excites me as much as this seminar that took place in Washington weeks ago, it makes sense to turn to the roots. I looked at exactly what was said at the seminar. The Minister of Defence presented a presentation followed by a discussion which asked him which forces the US in Europe should continue with in order to ensure that its military force is sufficiently visible and credible in Europe, especially in the Baltic States. In his reply, the Minister of Defence noted that the Baltic region is the only area in Europe where NATO is outnumbered in its capacity. He noted that the most important thing would be a set of activities, which could also be called the US presence. Next, he mentioned the importance of joint exercises, visits and firm political statements made at the right time. Clearly, in the opinion of the Minister of Defence, the jewel in the crown would be the permanent presence of the US on European soil. He added that he wanted the US to be present in Estonia, but he understood the current reality. If you look at it as a whole, frankly, I do not think there is any question here. This is what we have been talking about in our defence and security policy for the last 20 years and longer. As regards the presence of NATO representatives in Estonia, we know that we have a NATO air security mission, for which the United States is currently responsible. More than ten NATO Member States, including the United States, are actually present at the NATO Cyber Defence Centre. Regular exercises are taking place in our region, where the representations of many NATO allies have been and will continue to be present. The United States has regularly contributed to the Baltic Defence College and is still doing so. So if you put together what the Minister of Defence actually said and what our relationship with our allies in NATO, including the United States, I think this story is balanced.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U60	Please, Mr Toobal, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good Minister, thank you for your answer. It is a pity, of course, that Estonian journalists often misunderstand ministers and ministers do not tend to disprove after these misconceptions. Maybe that's the problem. But I'm asking you for your position on this speech. How could the views expressed there change, and will they change the situation when concluding the Estonian-Russian border agreement? Do they even have an effect on it, and if so, what effect could it have?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U62	Please, Priit Tobal, the second point to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U63	I think these two issues have nothing to do with each other. I don't see any effect here. As far as relations and cooperation between NATO and Russia are concerned, for years there has been a NATO-Russian Council. When this cooperation was agreed years ago, NATO and Russia were agreed in principle, inter alia, in writing on what the parties are doing on their territory. Everything that has taken place in Estonia's security and defence policy is also in line with what NATO and Russia agreed on years ago in the light of their cooperation. I don't see any contradiction here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you for your reply. The third question I have is from the second opera, but also very clearly linked to the activities and statements of the Minister of Defence. Namely, yesterday's Postimees wrote how the Minister of Defence, Eerik-Niles Kross' party associate and party chairman, has tried to contact Interpol's members of the committee, which will decide who will be put out as wanted on Interpol's website. Do you think that such behaviour, when a member of a political body, a member of a government or a chairman of a political party in one country deals with this sort of thing, is correct?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U65	I learned of this communication through the Honorary Consul and received information from our ambassador in Jordan. It would be very nice if a member of the government would inform the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of his intention before he turns to the Honorary Consul on such a matter. Then we should not begin to explain to the Honorary Consul what is and what is not.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U66	Thank you very much. Let us stop dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U67	Mr Mikko has a question for Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U68	Thank you very much. The Central African Republic, with its 4.6 million inhabitants, is a new direction in Estonia's foreign policy. The current situation is that we do not have a diplomatic representation there, as well as closer cultural or economic relations with the Central African Republic. The Prime Minister has stated that the mission of the Central African Republic is to prevent a humanitarian disaster in that country. The subject was raised in December in the Council, where Estonia, as one of the few, spoke out on the problem presented by France. Who did you consult, Prime Minister, on matters concerning the Central African Republic before you spoke at the Council?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U69	I consulted with those whom I considered necessary. In my speech, I did not make any commitments to the Estonian state. I hope that the Republic of Estonia will never have a Prime Minister who will coordinate each of his sentences and speeches anywhere. A free debate requires a person's freedom to express his or her views. I assure you that in all my performances, I have based myself on the positions confirmed by the Riigikogu Committee on European Union Affairs and have not deviated from them.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U70	Please, Mr Mikko, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U71	Jacques Chirac, the President of France, has a saying: "You missed a golden opportunity to remain silent. " Why did the Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia not take the opportunity to remain silent during the debate on a country far from us and for which we know little details?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U72	Good questioner! You've given me the impression that you're a humane person who cares about human lives even when it's not just about your family. I think it is decided at the level of the UN and the European Union that a mission must be sent to the Central African Republic to prevent genocide and humanitarian disaster, the only right thing. We cannot view disasters that take place somewhere away, just in the light of our own interests. You can't think that if genocide happens far away, it doesn't concern us. We should have learned something from the genocide in Rwanda 20 years ago if the rest of the world did not intervene adequately, resulting in a million deaths. Why are Finns constantly participating in world crises as peace intermediaries or peacekeepers? Why do peacekeeping missions have 400.500 Finnish Defence Forces every year? Why have 40,000 Finnish Defence Forces participated in peacekeeping missions in the last 57 years? We could ask ourselves that from time to time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U73	Please, my colleague Marianne Mikko, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U74	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister! After the Central African Republic's mission to the Riigikogu has been rejected, are you prepared to provide development aid for the 2.7 million euros that were found overnight for this mission to combat poverty in the Central African Republic?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U75	Thank you. The last Council, when discussing security and defence policy, concluded that there are situations where humanitarian aid alone is not a solution, but first security assistance is needed to provide humanitarian aid. The Central African Republic is one of the places where humanitarian aid cannot be provided without security assistance. It should be said that many countries have financed measures to help resolve the conflict in the Central African Republic. For example, the United Kingdom has allocated GBP 50 million for this purpose. Thanks to the decisive intervention of the French, genocide has been avoided and the risk of a humanitarian disaster has been reduced. We cannot impose this obligation only on the French or the British, as emphasised by the United Nations. All medium-sized and small countries should also do their utmost to prevent a humanitarian disaster and genocide throughout the world.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U76	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will also stop dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U77	There is one more question that can be asked. Mr Kõiv also has a question for Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U78	Thank you, Madam President. Now, back to your homework. I really like high-quality Swiss stuff. I like Swiss bells, I like Swiss cheese and chocolate, and I think we have very good Swiss trains running around. I tried the new train a few weeks ago, and I was happy with it. You have also had a lot of explaining to do about trains. But have you had the opportunity to personally try out these trains travelling in Estonia for the fourth week?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U79	Thank you. Yes, I have managed to take the train from Tartu to Tallinn. Last Sunday I took this trip because I had to answer questions right here in Riigikogu Question Time and I had to hear very derogatory assessments of train connection here. I have to say that what I experienced can only be described in a superlative way. The train was spacious and comfortable. I didn't think one train could go so smoothly on Estonian soil at all. When we were standing at the Tartu station, a long freight train passed us, but there was no vibration, no clinking, and no knock-off in the rhythm of the train. The ride was great, no problems. The train wasn't overcrowded either. Speed increased undetected to 120 km/h. When crossing some highways, the speed fell to 80 km/h, but after a few moments it was again 120 km/h. The seats were very comfortable. It was also meant for bicycle passengers, the hooks to hang the bicycle were available on the train. The toilet was spacious. Wifi, true, disappeared before Tallinn, but 3G mobile phone worked perfectly. I repeat, the decision to acquire new trains was correct. This is a revolutionary decision in the history of Estonian passenger transport. These trains are comfortable and will receive the praise of all passengers in the near future. I call on all the people to take the train!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U80	Thank you very much, Prime Minister, for this beautiful two-minute talk, how wonderful it is to ride on a new train! I should still try it. Question time's over. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for asking questions. Prime Minister and ministers, thank you very much for answering the questions. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U81	Good fellows, good afternoon. We will start the second working week session of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. There's no call. Let's move on to the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and has appointed leading committees for them. First of all, the Government of the Republic s. a draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Penal Register Act, the Act implementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, the State Fees Act, the State Secrets and the Secret Foreign Information Act and the State Legal Aid Act initiated on 20 January, whose commission is the Committee on Legal Affairs. Second, the Government of the Republic s. a Draft Act amending the Defence Union Act, the Defence Forces Service Act and the Defence Forces Service Act, initiated on 20 January, of which the commission is the National Defence Commission. Third, the Government of the Republic s. a draft law amending the Law on Health and Safety at Work, initiated on 20 January, the commission of which is the Committee on Social Affairs. Fourth, the Government of the Republic s. a Protocol No 15 on the amendment of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which was initiated on 20 January, is a draft act on ratification, the commission of which is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Fifthly, the Social Democratic Party faction. a Draft decision of the Riigikogu "Proposal for the Government of the Republic" submitted on 20 January, the commission of which is the Social Affairs Committee. Good fellows, we'll do a presence check. 85 members of the Riigikogu have been registered and 16 members are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U82	Let's start working on the items on today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of draft law 439 on amendments to party law initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and related amendments to other laws. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? They do. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Priit Toobali, representative of the Estonian Central Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair of Speech! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U83	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, the law of the party has been amended in its adoption. Let me remind you that the party law was passed in 1996 and today it is being amended for the 27th time. I understand that circumstances change, and it is often necessary to amend the laws, but I believe that party law is unreasonably often open and amended. Every time that law has been amended, the screws of all kinds of prohibitions and restrictions have been even more tightened. I'm not quite sure this has been the right way. I would like to say that we have some stricter restrictions in Europe. Fortunately, the draft will make it somewhat easier to create a new political party and manage small parties. But now to the bill. One important topic for discussion in the process of the first half of last year was the honesty and dynamism of competition between and within political parties, and the honesty and control of the funding of political parties, as well as the reduction of the influence of money in the political decision-making process. After a while, the final vote will be the solution proposed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to the problem raised by this House. Broadly speaking, the changes now becoming a law can be divided into two parts: the funding of political parties and the competition of political parties. The ceiling will be set at EUR 1,200 per donor per year and the ceiling will also be set at the party's loan obligations. That's to avoid a so-called loan. I am convinced that two important changes in reporting will make political party money much more transparent. In the future, political parties will submit quarterly expenditure statements in addition to quarterly income statements and will do so in quite detail: showing the type of expenditure and the specific amounts. The cost categories are, for example, labour costs, economic costs and the costs of political action, which in turn are divided into public relations costs, public events, TV, radio, outdoor advertising, etc. As regards funding, the role of the Political Financing Monitoring Commission will be clarified. The Commission will also advise political parties in the future; it will not be merely a supervisor and a punisher in the future. I consider this to be important for the small and new political parties, who need advice to start up their activities or even survive, so as not to be punished for mistakes later on.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U84	Good waitress, I'm sorry! Good fellows, there's a lot of noise in the hall. Please respect the waitress and those who wish to hear the presentation. Please, waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U85	Thank you. The second part of the legislative changes will undoubtedly make political parties' competition more fair and help to diversify the political party landscape. After the 2015 parliamentary elections, there will be an increase in financial support for political parties that do not raise the support of such a large number of voters that they exceed the electoral threshold. A party which receives at least 2% of the votes shall be entitled to EUR 30000, a party which collects more than 3% of the votes shall be entitled to EUR 60000, and a party which is just below the threshold of at least 4% of the votes shall be entitled to EUR 100000 per year. This is much more than the national budget currently provided for political parties below the threshold. As important as the revenue of the parties is the costs. I mean bail. The draft reduces bail by half compared to the current one. This makes participation in parliamentary elections more affordable for new and smaller political parties. I'm coming back to the people's assembly. One of the dominant proposals there was to reduce the requirement of 1000 members for the establishment of a political party in order to increase political competition and facilitate the creation of new political parties. The following arguments supported the reduction of the threshold: The current limit is unreasonably high compared to the population of Estonia. With a smaller number of members, simple members would be more involved in decision-making and the internal democracy of the party would work better. The current restriction on the establishment of a party hampers democracy in the country, as policy making is concentrated in the hands of too few parties. As a result of the debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and also in the light of the above arguments, we considered that the number of members needed to establish a political party could indeed be reduced. The draft provides 500 members for this limit. I believe that, in addition to much greater funding for political parties below the threshold, this is one of the most important changes that the amendment of party law entails. I wish strength to Andres Herkel and Kristiina Ojuland in creating a new party, because since s. a On 1 April, when the law enters into force, it will be much easier to create a new political party, even half as much easier as it is now in terms of the number of members. I sincerely wish them strength. With the amendments to party law, we will solve some of the problems that the process that started in the Riigikogu drew attention to. Next, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will adopt laws on the organisation of elections. The change in the selection criteria must have the same objective as the present draft law: it must increase political competition. The Centre Party Group supports the amendment of party law. I hope that the debate on electoral laws will also be as constructive as the debate on the amendment of party law in the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U86	Thank you. Indrek Saare, representative of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of the Riigikogu, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U87	Ladies and gentlemen, It is highly probable that we would not be currently in the process of the third reading of the amendment of the party law if there had not been public pressure on the Riigikogu and, above all, the so-called 'public assembly' process. There is therefore certainly reason to thank the hundreds of people who stood for our political system to become more open and democratic, and in one way or another they thought along and participated in these discussions. Unfortunately, neither the Committee on Constitutional Affairs nor the majority of the Riigikogu want to understand what the real expectations of society are, which is why the solution before us, to put it mildly, will not satisfy if we do not use some more radical expression like Juhan Parts, who has recently become a classic. First of all, though, I am talking about a few small, nice things. It is to be welcomed that the party law reduces the number of members required for the formation of a party from 1000 to 500 people and doubles the bail-in rate for participation in the elections. With a view to facilitating the entry of new forces into policy, the Social Democrats proposed similar proposals as early as autumn 2012. However, it should be noted that the lengthy process has made it very difficult to use this decreasing number of political parties to establish a political party even before the forthcoming European elections. As has already been said, the amendment is scheduled to enter into force on 1 April and then there will be only ten days left to present the candidates. However, I hope that those who wish to do so will be able to go through the entire procedure in these tens of days. We are also pleased that we have managed to persuade our colleagues, however, to abandon the restriction originally contained in the draft. This would have prohibited non-citizens living in Estonia from donating money to political parties, which would have reduced their ability to participate in politics. It is reasonable to assume that people living in Estonia and participating in local elections have at least as much interest in Estonian politics as citizens of Latvia, France, Bulgaria, Cyprus or other Member States of the European Union, for example. Thanks to the fact that all citizens of the European Union can now make donations to Estonian political parties, it can be predicted that we will most likely hear some funny or a little less funny stories about who has donated to Estonian political parties in the future. The members of the coalition have spoken (a representative of the opposition today also spoke about this) about how we generously change the funding of political parties from the state budget. It is true that the financial position of the parties falling under the threshold who collect 2 to 5% of the votes in the elections will be improved. However, if you go into the substance of the matter, it turns out that the sum of the EUR 5.4 million allocated from the state budget for the support of political parties is in good condition 2% to 3%. After all, the new redistribution does not change the competitive situation, as the political parties represented in the Riigikogu will continue to have 97.98% of the funds that can be used to carry out considerably larger electoral campaigns than those of large-scale parties falling under the threshold. We asked for a substantive change in the financing principles. With a fairer solution, half of the state's support would have been distributed equally among all the parties elected to parliament, and the other half would have been distributed among all the parties that took part in the elections according to the number of votes received, as proposed by the people's assembly. This would have increased state support for political parties under the threshold two or three times, compared to what is currently being offered, and would have made the amounts allocated to political parties admitted to the Riigikogu much more equal. Among other things, a party that received at least 1% of the votes in the elections would continue to receive a grant of EUR 10000. Unfortunately, with the support of the Centre Party, the coalition voted down these improvements. Otherwise, the middle party who often spoke of helping the weak forgot the principle of solidarity for the sake of maintaining their competitive advantage. For years, the Social Democrats have stood for a decisive reduction in election costs, which was one of the most central ideas of the population. It is no secret to anyone that the results of the elections in Estonia depend primarily on how much the political parties have contributed to the campaign. It is sad to know that the distribution of seats in the Riigikogu hall depends on 90% of the amount of money spent. The attempts to cut the election costs have, unfortunately, been running against the wall so far, but we will not fail. Sooner or later, the arms race must stop and world-view competition must intensify. Due to the lack of political will, the Riigikogu's proposal to prohibit members of the Riigikogu from belonging to the council of a state-owned company did not reach the law, although there was a debate on this matter. The point of the law, which sets stricter limits on the borrowing of political parties, does not contribute to political competition either. At first glance, everything seems noble, because the financial behaviour of the parties must be responsible. But notice, so far, the smaller parties had at least the opportunity to borrow in order to stay in the picture at any time during the campaign, in which another party will bury a million or two euros from the state budget. For example, if in the future the party that collected 2.9% of the grant receives EUR 30000 from the state, an additional EUR 30000 will be collected from the membership fees because it is the most exemplary member collectinger, plus EUR 30000 in donations, then, see a miracle, it will be able to borrow another EUR 10000. He can campaign a hundred thousand, while those receiving public support pay a million or two for the campaign costs. This significantly alters the competitive situation. There are other provisions in the law (e.g. the right to carry out an extraordinary audit), which create the possibility of shutting down taps for smaller parties, provided that there is only political will and sufficient agreement. A finely complex role has also been played by the Political Financing Monitoring Commission, which must at the same time be both an advisor and a supervisor. I hope that a constant conflict of roles does not make their work quite impossible. The amended party law does not increase political diversity by merely seemingly opening the door to newcomers. The popular languages that we are adopting here today could be called the Potjomkin village or the Pokazukha. Some more popular expressions can be used, for example, "cosmetic beauty treatment" has often been used recently in politics, which means activities that do not have a meaningful outcome. But the expectation of society that politics and governance will become more honest and open has not gone away. That is what the Socialist Group is convinced of. It is therefore impossible for us to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U88	Thank you. Do you have a procedural question, Andres Herkel?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U89	Thank you, Mr President. In my opinion, a member of the Riigikogu, who does not belong to any political group, cannot speak in this debate today, is a special form of discrimination.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U90	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U91	But since Priit Toobal named my name, I have a question. Do I have the right to reply? [[Summing.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U92	Yes, please! You have the right of reply.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U93	Thank you. I think Mr. Toobal thinks this law is a little bigger than it really is. However, the only substantive change is the reduction of the establishment limit from 1000 to 500 members. This was Juku-Kalle's proposal, which went through the Commission and was not contested in the large Chamber either. I regret that no other proposals were made concerning the restructuring of funding and the lowering of the threshold.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U94	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. We will begin the preparation of the final vote on draft 439. Dear colleagues, since draft 439 requires a majority of the Riigikogu's membership, we will do a presence check before the final vote. 94 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 7. Dear colleagues, I will put draft 439 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 72 members of the Riigikogu, 18 against and no abstentions. Draft 439 of the law amending the law on political parties initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and related amendments to other laws has been adopted as a law. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U95	Let's move on to the second item. The second reading of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the decision of the Riigikogu "Construction of a Special Committee on Supervision of Security Institutions" submitted by the Estonian Centre Party Group begins. I ask for a presentation of the Riigikogu Chair of the Deputy Chairman of the Constitutional Committee, Deniss Borodichi!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U96	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, As you will recall, the purpose of the draft is to appoint Mr Priit Toobal as an alternate member of the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities, instead of Mr Aadu Black, and Mr Enn Eesmaa as an alternate member of this committee. After the first reading of the draft, we discussed it in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 13 January. At this meeting, our committee decided, on the basis of a proposal from the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, to table an amendment withdrawing Andres Herkel from the special committee, in his place Ülo Tulik as a member of the committee. Kaja Kreisman is hereby appointed an alternate member of Ülo Tulik. It was all consensual.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U97	Good waitress, you have questions. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U98	Thank you, dear waitress. At first reading in this Chamber, the question was discussed whether a member of the Riigikogu under criminal investigation may belong to a special committee such as the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities. Did the Committee on Constitutional Affairs have a further debate between the first and second readings on the suitability of this particular candidate?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U99	Thank you. I remember those discussions. The time had been given to table amendments; every member of the Riigikogu had this opportunity. Unfortunately, they were not received by the Commission. In other context, the Commission did not discuss this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U100	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U101	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Dear Commission waitress, I regret that there is a group in Parliament that does not believe in the presumption of innocence enshrined in the Constitution. But my question is a little different. In some respects, it is also my fault that I did not raise this issue in the Commission, but I would like to know whether Parliament should not act uniformly on such matters. If the Central Party Group ever proposed an amendment to the Special Committee on State Budget Control to replace the so-called window member of the Riigikogu, it was found that there was no reason to replace him, but the Central Party Group could appoint one member to the committee. Shouldn't this have been the case now, and not Mr Herkel's response to the Member of the Commission, but the IRL could simply have appointed its second representative to this committee? Would that have been consistent? Would that have been more accurate?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U102	Yes, all of this might have been worth discussing, but no one in the Commission raised this issue. The Commission decision was adopted unanimously. I personally have nothing to add to this.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U103	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U104	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I'm going a little further with Mr Ossinovski's question. Does it not seem to you that the Commission's composition, which is to be voted on today, may undermine the Commission's work?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U105	Thank you. It's a subjective matter. I think that we must, as Members of Parliament, be guided by specific arrangements. That is what our committee has done. As far as emotional attitudes are concerned, I think that everyone has the right to their own opinions and emotional attitudes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U106	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? It's what you want. I'm opening negotiations. Evgeni Ossinovski, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U107	Ladies and gentlemen, I speak for myself. In my opinion, the special committee on the supervision of security authorities is a specific committee; it is not a committee like the others. Therefore, in my opinion, a person suspected of a criminal offence should not be assigned there. It is not about the presumption of innocence; it is about whether the action that is taking place in this committee, not only is it fair, it also seems fair, and it does not hurt the sense of public justice. It can also be pointed out that the law may restrict the right of access to classified information to persons suspected of being in a criminal case. In this context, too, the question may arise as to whether this particular person is actually allowed to work in this committee. At the same time, it is clear that the appointment of members of the Commission is, according to our established practice, a matter for the political groups. At first reading, I drew attention to this and proposed that the Centre Party Group replace this person with someone else. Since this has not been done, there is no way I can support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U108	Thank you. Please, Lauri Vahtre, speaking from the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U109	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, want to express my personal attitude. On the one hand, it is, of course, clear that there are rules in democracy and parliamentarianism, and if there are political parties in the Commission, political parties are entitled to fill these places as they see fit. But this rule is not absolute. I stress, by expressing my personal view, that it is normal, in my opinion, for the kapo to study Toobali, but not when Toobal examines the kapo. That is why it is very difficult for me, too, to support this bill, and I will only do so in the event of an extreme emergency.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U110	Thank you. Aivar Riisalu, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U111	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, There has been a wonderful instrument in the world since the dusk of time called a mirror. Also among the 101 people sitting here in the Riigikogu hall, there are enough people who should at one point remind themselves of what the mirror is and look into it. When you see a self-observing, stout, greyish, or more beautiful specimen standing there, you should ask yourself if this specimen has lived in such a way that it has the right to point fingers at others and criticize someone who may have even been wrong about something but who has not been punished for it. For he who has erred and should be punished has been under pressure for an unreasonable long time. It is not so easy to impose punishment on him, because at the moment that the so-called violation arose or was attempted, perhaps no one looked in the mirror again. For dear Social Democrats, I have a deep and warm message: you could also have a mirror. The mirror could also be on Evgeny Ossinovski. I like that Estonia is a unique country in a world where worldview changes in days and in a few weeks it can be exchanged for new political power to join. In Estonia, it often occurs that the pot is calling the kettle, and nothing happens. Then you sit here and listen, and as a relatively well-knowing person, you think that the guy who's talking right now might be quiet. [[Interjection: Oh, right!]] But he's not even. I think that life itself will set things right, and we will soon have no need to talk about social democrats at all. Because this is not the road that Estonia needs. However, I also stress: ladies and gentlemen, let us not be evil, let us look in the mirror and do the Estonian thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U112	Thank you. Speak up, Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U113	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. I sincerely thank Aivar Riisalu and want to wish dear colleagues that none of you should ever be under criminal investigation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U114	I ask for the Riigikogu's speech chair Kalle Laaneti!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U115	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll use the expression of actor Mari-Liis Lille and ask what's wrong with this picture if we vote this thing off. My colleague, Priit Toobal, said that he does not want anyone to be under criminal investigation. That's exactly what I don't want. I've been under investigation, too. But in my opinion, people in this Chamber should have certain ethical rules that are not crossed. Unfortunately, they do not work, which I think is extremely sad. Aivar was talking about the mirror. It's all a beautiful story. But let us also think about how these things seem from the outside and how certain officials can go to this committee with certain documents if they know that they must not go there with them. In my opinion, it would have been easiest if the Centre Party Group had calmly thought about this and had not proposed Mr Toobal as an alternate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U116	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu to speak to Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U117	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, If you do not know this yet, I will tell you that there are really no innocent people in Estonia before the law. There's just some people the kapo hasn't dealt with yet. But that's not why I came here to thank God, because today I see a miracle I never thought I'd believe. You're all politicians. Do you know what people think of you? I'm a politician, too, of course. It's the dirtiest job in the world that can be. Speaking of this hall, you know, if anyone can say anything about anyone here, it's just a voter. You guys drop your charges! I can see how Ossinovsky and Vahtre have wings, but it's just an illusion, because there are no saints in this room. We are dealing with politics, and it relates to very difficult decisions, negotiations, searches, etc. Enough of us being made schoolboys here and being fooled by the public! If you have a more or less pure reputation at first, wait for the time when the kapo will be interested in you, and this pure reputation is momentarily past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U118	Thank you. Please, speak up, Tõnu Juul!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U119	Thank you! Ladies and gentlemen, You're forgetting one very serious thing next to all the beautiful things you've said here. We are always entitled to evaluate our fellow Members in Parliament. I have no doubt that the people we are talking about today will receive a positive opinion. So I guess we could start deciding.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U120	Thank you. No more requests or speeches, I will close the negotiations. We will begin the examination of the draft 534 amendments. One amendment has been received from the lead committee. We have examined the amendment. The position of the commission is that, after the end of the second reading, draft 534 should be put to the final vote. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. Dear colleagues, I will put to the final vote a draft of 534. Please take a stand and vote. 42 members of the Riigikogu and 2 against, with no abstentions. Draft 534 of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the decision of the Riigikogu "Construction of a Special Committee on Supervision of Security Authorities" submitted by the Estonian Centre Party Group has been adopted as a decision. The second item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U121	Let's move on to the third item. The second reading of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the Riigikogu decision "Constitution of a Special Committee on State Budget Control" by the Social Democratic Party Group begins. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Deputy Chairman of the Constitutional Committee, Deniss Borodichi!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U122	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of this draft is to appoint Jüri Morozov as a member of the Special Committee on State Budget Control in place of Kajar Lember. No amendments to the draft have been received. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U123	Good colleagues, would you like to ask? There are no questions. Good waitress, thank you! Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. No amendments to the 540 draft have been received. We can go to the preparation of the final vote, as proposed by the lead committee. I will put a draft 540 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. In favour of 63 members of the Riigikogu, there are no respondents or abstentions. Draft 540 of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the Riigikogu's decision "Constitution of a Special Committee on State Budget Control" submitted by the Social Democratic Party Group has been adopted as a decision. The third item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U124	Let's move on to item number four. The second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, entitled "The Estonian Strategy for Research and Development and Innovation 2014 Urmas Klaas, Chairman of the Cultural Commission of the Riigikogu speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U125	Mr. Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 4 November m. a. The first reading took place in the large hall on 18 December. By 7 January s. a, when the deadline for submitting amendments was set, no amendments were received by the Committee on Culture. The Committee on Culture prepared the draft for second reading on 13 January and decided to send the draft for second reading today, 22 January 2014. The Committee on Culture decided by consensus to propose to the Assembly that the draft be put to the final vote after the end of the second reading. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U126	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U127	Thank you. I ask for your comment on what has been discussed in many circles. Is it the right principle that the quotibility of publications is somewhat more important than other aspects? How will the financing principle change in the new strategy?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U128	Thank you. This issue was not discussed by the Committee on Culture in preparation for the second reading of the draft decision. But I can tell you that the Committee on Culture discussed the implementation of the work of the Estonian Research Council on Monday this week and the topic of funding science, and this topic was also on the agenda. I would not dissect it for longer because it is not the subject of this point. But I can say to your satisfaction that quotivity is no longer as important as it was some time ago.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U129	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U130	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Mr President of the Commission. In the context of the development of Estonian science, it has been stressed several times that we need to find out what is right, whether to finance only the absolute peaks of science or many areas, thus giving the possibility to a much larger number of researchers. Which position do you support as chairman of the committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U131	Thank you. Again, I regret to say that, in preparing for the second reading of this draft decision, the Committee on Culture did not discuss this issue. But, of course, it is right that major changes are taking place in the funding of science. The research agency is operational, evaluation committees are working, there are institutional research grants as well as personal research grants, and the balance between them is undoubtedly worth discussing. Perhaps a balance needs to be struck between these two so that young scientists can continue with active research after defending their doctoral thesis and those who are already thinking more peacefully can leave the dignified active science.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U132	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U133	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the Commission. The reform of science has created controversy among researchers, as 600-650 researchers will be funded in the future instead of the current 1900 paid research staff. The Prime Minister has said that these claims are not correct, but according to Minister Aaviksoo, they are speculative thought development, which still has its true foundations. Please explain how many full-time researchers the state plans to finance in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U134	Thank you very much. I regret to say again that this issue was not discussed during the preparation of our draft decision for the second reading. I can give you a very thorough overview of what you asked about, and I can also send you written material. The Committee on Culture discussed this on Monday and it will continue these discussions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U135	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U136	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable Chairman and Representative of the Commission. The keywords of "Knowledge-based Estonia" are knowledge and innovation. At the same time, more attention is paid to making students refer to authority with extreme precision in their Bachelor's and Master's thesis. To what extent do you consider this system to be conducive to the creation of new knowledge?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U137	Thank you. Very philosophical question. Very much favours and favors both fundamental research and the application of knowledge. This strategy has focused on the implementation of knowledge, so that there are practical links and horizontal cooperation between government institutions and universities. Intersectoral, interdisciplinary studies can then also be carried out and their results can be carried out.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U138	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U139	Thank you, Mr President. Good chairman of the committee! In preparing for the second reading, the Commission will be able to take two different approaches. Our dignified Committee on Culture can simply see that no amendments have been tabled and that there may not be very many minutes of debate. But, as you said very nicely, this topic will continue to be discussed in committee, both this week and next weeks, and it will certainly be discussed later. Several distinguished scientific representatives have expressed their dissent and concern about these changes. It was precisely because of their writings and their conversions that raised these issues in our group. Perhaps it is also appropriate to refer to future discussions and talk about what the Committee on Culture is thinking of doing after adopting the draft as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U140	Thank you. We will certainly monitor the implementation of this strategy. This is a very important strategy, but not just one. As I said, on Monday we were discussing aspects of research funding. We need to think in committee on my proposal already next Monday on the agenda of how we will proceed with this debate. There is indeed something to discuss. You gotta think about how everyone's gonna find out about this. There is quite a lot of disinformation on the subject now, of course there is a lot of emotion. These colossal figures, which my colleague Tarmo Tamm asked about, have passed through the press. The members of the Riigikogu must be clarified here, so the discussions on the implementation of the strategy will certainly continue. But we have so far tried to deal with these things separately in the Committee on Culture. A little broader issues are specifically related to this strategy, but we are also discussing the implementation of the research agency and the funding of research through various research grants.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U141	Good fellows, there are six rows of benches in this hall, and at least three of them have a pretty loud buzz, and there is also a sound from the back of the hall. I ask you to honor the waitress and those who want to listen to the performer!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U142	We are already implementing the strategy.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U143	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U144	Thank you, Mr President, for the silent remarks. Honourable waitress! Many scientists say that you can't learn to be a scientist, you're born to be a scientist. Does this strategy ensure that our future Einsteine and Nobel Prize candidates are already noticed at school and their talents are developed so that they will have all the doors open in the future and will not lose the germ of science that may have been given to them with their mother's milk?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U145	Thank you. This strategy does not plunge so far into the activities of general education or pre-school institutions. These are certainly very important issues that you are asking about. I have always liked to stress that the three components of education must be balanced in terms of knowledge, skills and creativity. It's definitely an important side of creativity here. At the same time, it relates to special educational needs, which is also talent. It needs to be noticed and supported. All these issues are topical and have been discussed and will continue to be discussed both in the Ministry of Education and Research and in the Committee on Culture. These topics, how to make school more interesting and how it should support the student's creativity, are currently under discussion, but specifically within this strategy we have not discussed them.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U146	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? It's what you want. I'm opening negotiations. Ene Ergma, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U147	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, as a former scientist and academician, I want to tell you what sets out science and who is a scientist. This is quality, not quality in the Republic of Estonia, but quality in the world. If it is not, then it is the same as sometimes in sport that we have Estonian champions, but there are no world champions. But today we are looking forward to our approval of the Estonian R &amp; D &amp; Innovation Strategy 2014 This is already the third R &amp; D &amp; I strategy. The first was adopted by the Riigikogu in 2001. I was very closely involved in preparing the first strategy as Chairman of the Council of the Estonian Research Fund and Vice-President of the Estonian Academy of Sciences. I remember how much debate came about in determining the priority axes, because there were more than a few decades in question. Three key areas emerged from a serious discussion: user-friendly information technologies and the development of the information society, biomedicine and materials technologies. The choice of the time has proved to be a success, as these directions have achieved good results in basic sciences. The transfer of scientific achievements to the economy has also been the greatest in these directions. Estonia's strategy for research and development and innovation 2014-2020 "Knowledge-based Estonia" also highlights the same trends as prospective growth areas: ICT, health technologies and services (e.g. biotechnology and eHealth) and the efficient use of resources (e.g. material science and industry, innovative construction or "smart house," chemical industry, etc.). Thanks to the right decisions taken more than ten years ago, these areas have undergone serious development, and the aim is now to use the created potential for Estonia's development and economic growth. Priority setting is based on a new, smart specialisation methodology. In order to ensure a smoother cross-sectoral coordination, clarification has been made on governance and monitoring issues. International and national evaluations and reports have been used as input in the preparation of the strategy. The strategy has been thoroughly discussed by a number of interest groups, such as the Estonian Research Council, the Estonian Academy of Sciences, the Estonian Biocentre, universities and the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Having examined one of the original options of the strategy myself, I can say that the strategy has improved considerably during the discussions. It is very important that a financing plan for the strategy has been outlined, with specific activities and costs fixed for four (1 + 3) years by year and by those responsible. Such indicators provide strong support for the strategy. In the context of the strategy, I would like to stress that the Ministry of Education and Research, in the new funding period of the European Union, 2014 to 2020 has provided for a measure for universities, with budgetary resources, which, in addition to other activities, are intended to support university cooperation with businesses. The role of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and EAS is to ensure that companies make smarter orders to universities and research institutions in the new period, while universities, for their part, need to contribute more energy and resources than before. Such synergies can produce very good results. We hope that university-business cooperation will become even more effective from year to year. The Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Association supports the approval of the Estonian strategy for R &amp; D and innovation 2014-2020 "Knowledge-based Estonia" and hopes that its ambitious goals will be met. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U148	Thank you. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu Mart Meri!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U149	Thank you. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U150	Three minutes extra time, eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U151	The R &amp; D &amp; I strategy has made a number of important policy choices and targets up to 2020. From the point of view of the Estonian state, people and society, the research strategy can be compared with the fundamentals of cultural policy and the meaning and influence of the foundations of security policy. In addition to national goals, the strategy sets the goals for the position of Estonian science in international competition. It can and must be said that the "Knowledge-based Estonia" strategy is an agreement between the scientific community and the state on what society expects of scientists and what researchers are able to give to society. For the sake of ensuring that the well-being of people living in Estonia is improved both mentally and materially, and at best in such a way that the results of the work of Estonian researchers increase welfare beyond Estonia. The strategy should therefore mean an agreement in the best way. In the wider public, the strategy has not attracted more attention. Obviously, the broadest public to deal with this document before it becomes official is now right here in the large Chamber of Parliament. That is why I also use the freedom to talk about a few darker things. Certainly one of the most important sentences for us in this Parliament is on page 16, which states in a very realistic way, both for good and for bad, that by 2018 at the latest Estonia must have a plan to uncouple R &amp; D funding from the Structural Funds of the European Union. This plan will, of course, be made either by taking money from someone in this Chamber or by changing the tax policy of the country. But there is also a harshly dark sentence on page 9 in the chapter "Measures to achieve the objectives." This is as follows: "Activities that are not important in the strategy or for which major changes are not planned remain unsubstantiated. " It's a very broad sentence. Let us look at this sentence, for example, against the background of humanities and social sciences, which is hardly mentioned in the strategy or, if mentioned, as an apology, as an obligation imposed by the Constitution. Example on page 6 (this text is also linguistically invalid): "The Constitution requires that Estonian language and culture TAs be maintained and developed. Humanities should be developed to transfer and implement knowledge, including their cross-cutting nature. " What could that mean? There is a reference link to this sentence, which can be found in the discussion paper of the Scientific and Development Council from 2012, which has largely been the draft of this strategy with a very open text. There was an absurdity to which the strategy writers wanted to refer: "The focus should be on the sciences of precision, nature, technology and medicine, the remaining free money could be directed towards the social-humanitarian. " More Free Money! Does this mean that calling a social-humanitarian surplus is not important or that major changes in the social-humanitary are not planned? Is there really an agreement here with humanitarian and social scientists? Then I will talk about tables with money numbers, ratios and indicators. There's a lot of confusion here too. The tables are in the main text and one of them is also important in the explanatory memorandum. The strategy aims to increase the level of R &amp; D funding in public and local government budgets to 1% of GDP next year and to maintain this level in the future. It's a worthwhile goal. However, when comparing the tables in the main text and the explanatory memorandum, it must be concluded that this 1% level can only be maintained thanks to the contribution of local authorities. It is planned to reach 31 million by 2015, 38 million by 2016 and 31.4 million by 2017. This means that around EUR 100 million will come from local authorities over the next three years. Are the municipalities really aware of this? The government's rhetoric, at least in the press, has been that R &amp; D funding is constantly increasing, while the table on pages 16 and 17 of the strategy clearly rejects this rhetoric. Moreover, public funding for R &amp; D will not increase; it will not remain at the same level; it will not stabilise; it will bounce up, down once every year, by about EUR 20 million. By 2020, the country's share in an indicative absolute figure is projected to be around EUR 17 million below this year's level. Will this ensure balanced development, research careers for young people, covering Estonia's domestic needs and keeping Estonia in the forefront of international competition? No, it turns out that science is a shrinking area in Estonia. In essence, it has been the case since 2008 because, according to the old system, targeted financing, basic financing, infra-support and also the absolute value of the grant amount have remained unchanged. Much has been said about growth due to the stubborn work of researchers from other sources, particularly the private sector and the European Union. However, as the strategy says, the European Union's structural funds will also start to shrink in the future. The current break in Estonian science is perhaps comparable to the time of exit from the Soviet system. Eesti Teadusagentuur (Estonian Research Council), whose activities have caused confusion, tension and concern in the scientific community in recent months. There are communication disturbances, there are painfully bumping principles, there are blurring national and national targets. Last Monday, the Council of Rectors turned to the Minister of Education, who found that the current situation poses a threat to the diversity of Estonian science and the subsequent growth of scientists and innovators essential for Estonia's development. Rectors consider that this would also jeopardise the achievement of the strategy's objectives. In this extremely tense situation, on behalf of the Socialist Envoy Group, I propose that the second reading of the Estonian R &amp; D strategy be interrupted and that at least enough time be given to allow the Committee on Culture to hold a meeting without taking place so far, where it would be possible to discuss the consistency or contradictions between the current situation and the objectives of the strategy, together with the representatives of the scientific community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U152	Thank you. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. No amendments to the draft have been tabled. Since the Group of the Social Democratic Party has had a proposal to interrupt the second reading of the draft, we will have to vote this fine motion through. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the motion of the Social Democratic Party Group to interrupt the second reading of draft 529. Please vote! The proposal was voted in favour by 17 votes to 36 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Ladies and gentlemen, I will vote to the final vote on the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Accepting the Estonian Strategy for Research, Development and Innovation 2014 Please vote! (meeting of 47), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 19 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U153	The next item is the second reading of the draft Act amending the VAT Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Peter Laurson, member of the Monetary Commission of the speaker's office, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U154	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Draft Act amending the VAT Act 506 was initiated by the Government of the Republic m. on 14 October 2008. The first reading was closed on 6 November and the deadline for submitting amendments was 13 November. No amendments were tabled. The second reading of the draft act took place in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. a on January 14th. The Commission made one consensual amendment to the draft. It sets out the time when some parts of the law will enter into force. Paragraph 2 (2) of the Act is amended and worded as follows: "Subsections 1 to 4 of the Act, 8 to 12, 14, 15, 17 to 20, 23 and 24 shall enter into force on 1 March 2014. "The general date of entry into force of the Act is 1 January 2015, but it was envisaged that some provisions would enter into force earlier, 1 January 2014. We are expected to be able to complete the draft within January, and the actions following the adoption of the law will be completed by 1 March. These provisions can therefore enter into force on 1 March. The Committee on Finance has decided unanimously to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 22 January, to propose that the second reading be stopped, and when the second reading is completed, we will be proposing that the draft be sent to the third reading by 29 January. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U155	Thank you very much, Mr Laurson. There are no questions for you. Do colleagues want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. There is one amendment to the draft law, as the rapporteur has already said, which has been fully taken into account. We have come to the conclusion that the second reading of the 506 bill has been completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U156	The second reading of the draft law amending the Traffic Act and the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I ask for a presentation of the Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U157	Good afternoon, Mr President-in-Office and ladies and gentlemen. The Economic Commission addressed the second reading of the draft law amending the Traffic Act and the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure at its regular meeting on 17 December. Ain Tatter, Head of the Road and Railway Department, was invited to this debate from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. Two amendments were tabled, one by the Committee on Economic Affairs and the other by Kristen Michal. Both proposals were taken into account by consensus. The content of the first amendment is, in short, as follows: The draft refers to the competent authority designated for the exchange of national vehicle registration data of a Member State of the European Union, but the wording may be unclear as to whether the data retention period also applies to the Public Road Administration, which deals with the exchange of national vehicle registration data in Estonia. Therefore, in that paragraph, the words "the Road Administration or the other" are added to specify that the obligation to store and delete data extends to the Road Administration. The second amendment has been discussed by experts from the Ministry of Justice and experts from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The possibility of misinterpretation has also been pointed out by the police. According to the amendment, the presence of an interpreter in a misdemeanour procedure is mandatory from the time when the misdemeanour case was discussed in the county court (of course, if it is a person who does not understand the Estonian language). However, if the person or witness in proceedings seeks the involvement of an interpreter in an out-of-court procedure because the language proficiency of the State is not sufficient to understand the procedural procedure, that possibility shall exist. In short, this is all about the amendments. As has been said, the Commission has unanimously accepted all the amendments, proposed the termination of the second reading, and when the second reading is completed, we have a proposal to send the draft to the third reading by 29 January. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U158	Thank you very much, my colleague Urve Palo. No questions for you either. Do colleagues want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. As Mr Palo said, two amendments have been tabled. Let's go through them. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and the proposal has been fully taken into account. The second amendment has been tabled by my colleague Kristen Michal and the commission has taken this proposal fully into account. We have examined the amendments. We can confirm that the second reading of bill 508 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U159	The first reading of the draft law amending the Public Information Act, the Electronic Communications Act and the Emergency Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. For a presentation, please, Minister of Economy and Communications Juhan Parts!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U160	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The government will submit to you a draft law amending the Public Information Act, the Electronic Communications Act and the Emergency Act. The main objective of the draft is to further develop the interoperability of the national information system. To this end, the draft law provides that the National Information System Authority will receive an additional mandate for monitoring and other coordinating activities. The aim is that the agreed rules necessary for the interaction of information systems belonging to the national information system should be taken into account in the development and maintenance of information systems. Until now, such legitimate, transparent and direct supervision has been lacking in the National Information System Authority. In addition, the scope of supervision by the National Information System Agency is provided for. This concerns requirements for the establishment, entry into service and maintenance of databases, requirements for the use of systems to safeguard the national information system (e.g. security systems), as well as requirements for the integration of databases and information systems with the X-Road. The subjects of supervision are state and local government authorities, private persons with public functions and information systems managers interlinked with the X-Road. In addition to the Public Information Act and the Electronic Communications Act, the Emergency Act is amended. Its purpose is to provide the National Information System Agency with supervisory competence for the permanent implementation of the information systems used to provide vital services and the related security measures for information assets. Critical service providers are determined in accordance with the Emergency Act and more specifically by the Government of the Republic. I think it was all important for this draft. We are asking for this bill to be supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U161	Thank you very much, Minister. There are no questions for you. I would like a member of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Arto Asa, to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U162	The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed this draft. a on 12 December. Tõnis Palts, Member of the Commission, was absent from the meeting of the Commission and Juhan Parts, Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Jana Orlovski, supervisory expert of the State Information System Agency and Tõnu Nirk, Head of Communication Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, were present. The minister already gave an overview of the draft. There is nothing very political here; rather, it is a matter of administration. The Commission discussed whether this draft could be incorporated into draft 536 which we will next have to debate today and will address issues in the same area. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications supported the addition of two drafts during the subsequent procedure. The Commission was asked about the need for amendments to the draft. The brief explanation is that it is desirable to create greater clarity in the law. From now on, it should be clear that the National Information System Authority has a supervisory function. At the moment, the law is worded to be supervised by MKM or by an authority designated by it as a governing body. This wording is not very clear. The normal monitoring procedure of the National Information System Authority was examined. A representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications explained that if there was an information security incident, the RIA would control it. Its control includes, in particular, local authorities and ministries. It was also considered that sufficient resources were available for monitoring. In turn, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications supervises the National Information System Agency. There was no more talk about the substance of the bill. Now I am talking about the decisions of the Commission. We proposed, firstly, that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 22 January 2014, secondly, that the first reading be closed, and, thirdly, that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 5 February 2014 at 17.00. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U163	Thank you very much, Mr Aas. There are no questions for you. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 524 amendments at 5 February at 5 p.m. First reading of Bill 524 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U164	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on electronic communications and state fees initiated by the Government of the Republic. Once again, I would like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, for a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U165	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The amendment of the Law on electronic communications and the Law on state fees amends the provisions concerning the national organisation and supervisory powers of the electronic communications sector. Currently, the responsibility of the regulator in the field of electronic communications is shared between the Technical Surveillance Authority and the Competition Authority. The tasks of the Agency have so far been to share frequencies and numbering as a limited resource, to organise its use and to monitor the use of frequencies and numbering, the provision of communications services and the compliance of apparatus. However, the competition authority is competent to have electronic communications with regulated markets, costing and tariffs, universal service and access to and interconnection of communications networks. The current regulatory model has worked well, but we are seeing more and more consolidation in the field of electronic communications, including technical consolidation, technology and market definition, which is why the efficiency of regulators is a very important factor in the development of electronic communications. As a result, the draft law proposes that the functions of the electronic communications regulator be pooled into a single supervisory authority. This is, according to our proposal, the Technical Surveillance Authority. The amendments to the State Fees Act provide that the state fee for the examination of the licence application for television and radio services is to be paid to the Technical Surveillance Authority. Previously, this state fee had to be paid to the Ministry of Culture. We are asking for this bill to be supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U166	Thank you very much, Minister. There are no questions. Once again, I would like to ask for a presentation of Mr Arto Asa, member of the Committee on Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U167	The Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu discussed this draft on 12 December m. a. All members of the Commission were present, except Tõnis Palts. The draft was presented by Minister Juhan Parts and by Tõnu Nirk, Head of Communication Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The Minister has already given a general overview of the draft. As discussed in the debate on the previous draft, after the first reading, drafts 524 and 536 are to be merged. I am now talking about the progress of the debate and the questions raised in the Commission. The competition authorities were asked whether competition issues would no longer be dealt with in the future. The answer was that the Agency's main task was and was an analysis of sector-specific markets, which initially, in 2005, was still 18 years old. Today, the number of these markets is decreasing, there are eight left, and this is forcing the work to be reorganized. In the communications sector, there is a trend to reduce specific regulation. The transition to normal competition law will gradually take place. Secondly, it was asked to describe the amendments to the State Fees Act, which are two. The first concerns the granting of licences to radio amateurs. The amount of the state fee shall be EUR 2,3. In the past, these authorisations were issued for a period of three years and will be issued for a period of five years. The country has less bureaucracy, while radio amateurs have lower costs. Secondly, from 1 July 2014, the functions of the media service regulator fall within the administration of the Technical Surveillance Authority instead of the Ministry of Culture. An independent media service regulator was established. However, the state fee remained unchanged. Thirdly, the Commission was asked whether implementing provisions should not be laid down for the transition from the Competition Authority to the Technical Supervisory Authority, for example in cases where the Competition Authority is in the process of some proceedings. The representatives of the Ministry thought that this was a good point of view and that the pending procedures had to be reviewed in order to ensure a smooth transition. Finally, I will say the decisions of the Commission. Firstly, we decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 22 January 2014, secondly, we decided to propose the completion of the first reading, and thirdly, we propose that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 5 February 2014 at 17.00. All decisions were taken by consensus within the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U168	Thank you very much, Mr Aas. There are no questions for you. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. I will set the deadline for the submission of 536 amendments at 5 February at 5 p.m. First reading of bill 536 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U169	The next item is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu entitled "Acceptance of the Transport Development Plan 2014 to 2020" submitted by the Government of the Republic. Once again, I would like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, for a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U170	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! It is a great honour to introduce you to the transport development plan for the years 2014 to 2020. First of all, I would like to thank all those who have contributed to the drafting of this strategic document from this point of view. Discussions and studies have been ongoing over a year, forecasts have been made, and perspectives and funding issues have been discussed. The whole set of topics has been under discussion. Today, the government will present this plan on how Estonian transport could be moved forward to the Riigikogu for the next seven years. We know that transport plays a growing role in the functioning of today's economy and in the well-being of people. Transport, in addition to all that is good and necessary, has negative environmental impacts, which in turn reduce the welfare and competitiveness of the economy. This is why our transport policy aims to develop comfortable and safe mobility opportunities in order to increase the competitiveness of the economy and the well-being of people, given that all mobility opportunities developed are sustainable in the long term. First of all, I will make a small summary of the past years, what have been the most important changes and developments in Estonian transport from the state's point of view. Let me give you some examples. Several extremely dangerous traffic nodes have been reconstructed and made more secure. Road safety as a whole has taken an important step forward. The construction of four-line main roads has been continued. Local authorities have supported the establishment of several security-enhancing and time-saving bypasses. A large part of the network has been reconstructed, new platforms have been built, all passenger rolling stock has been replaced. The link with islands, both larger and smaller, is now at a new quality level. Tallinn Airport has been reconstructed and expanded, most regional airports have also been organized. Within a few years, an important part of Tallinn's tram network will hopefully be reconstructed, with 20 new trams acquired. Over 100 new buses have been purchased for the county bus routes. There are many other such developments. There is still much to be done, of course, but we can still start focusing more on the next step. In particular, connections need to be better interlinked, including the integration of IT solutions, in order to create a more integrated mobility environment. By associations, we mean local associations, i.e. the daily movement of people to school or work (of course moving for other reasons, which may be hundreds), regional connections, when moving primarily between the centre of attraction and its hinterland, and national connections, i.e. how to move between different regions of Estonia. For national associations, it is important how the other parts of Estonia are connected to Tallinn. But certainly international connections are also important, the way we are connected to the rest of the world. We must, of course, address all these issues separately, but the clear objective for the coming years is that these connections should be better interlinked. The second point I highlight is that transport must contribute to increasing the competitiveness of our economy. We have offered courses of action in the development plan to make the living and business environment more attractive and to contribute more broadly to the development of Estonian entrepreneurship and structural changes in entrepreneurship, given our current level of development. Thirdly, we will certainly not be able to overcome or re-establish the cost of transport. Transport is expensive, investment usually takes time, and it takes time to pay off. I mentioned that the link to the islands is at a new quality level and that train traffic is essentially fully modernised. It must be taken into account here that in order to implement all this, the country's subsidies have been constantly increased. This growth has taken place at a faster pace than GDP growth. It is clear that, at the same pace, transport financing could only grow at the expense of something else in the longer term. We have been realistic about setting targets by 2020. Dotations cannot grow at the same rate and we cannot do all the investments that have been discussed in the development plan at the same time. Now I am talking about major issues, areas where significant developments should have taken place by 2020. Firstly, land use and transport planning must be integrated. There have been clear shortcomings in this area. We want to improve the quality of train traffic, but no new real estate developments have been made in the last 20 years in view of train traffic. On the contrary, new developments have often been made without taking into account the possibilities of interconnection. This must definitely change. It is particularly important to keep this in mind when new regional plans are being drawn up. I believe that, in cooperation between rural governments and municipalities and the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, we will be able to achieve a much better planning and development in terms of accessibility by 2020. This would help to reduce forced movements and empty journeys. Although several important hubs have been built over the last ten years and construction and reconstruction of four-line roads has continued, the most difficult tasks still lie ahead of road transport. There is a dense road network in Estonia, given the number of inhabitants, but no doubt a large part of these roads could be in a much better condition. In conjunction with the transport development plan, a new road-saving plan has been drawn up until 2020. According to this, the volume of road storage facilities will increase from year to year and we will be able to improve the quality of roads as a whole. With regard to road transport, the objective of improving road safety is essential. The number of road deaths must be less than 50 in 2020. We have made progress in this area. For the last three years, we have achieved the target that was set ten years ago by 2015: that less than 100 fellow citizens die in traffic a year. We know that every death in traffic is nonsense, stupidity, but we have to consider the paradoxes of human life. We believe that the new objective is realistic. To achieve this, as foreseen by the transport development plan, a new road safety programme will be completed this year with a number of ambitious tasks. When it comes to national connections, you have to talk about train traffic. We have made huge investments in this, but there is certainly a need to take the next step, and if the entire train fleet is fully operational, increase the connection speed and the number of departures. The development plan foresees a double increase in the number of people travelling by train due to improved service quality. In this context, the development plan provides for a so-called suspension measure, according to which we are planning at least EUR 15 million for local authorities in particular, but why not also for our other partners, so that they can apply for investment tools to open rail stops and make them more comfortable. I'm still talking about the local governments. We can start paying more attention to local connections, given that at local level, transport investment not only affects mobility, but also affects the quality and attractiveness of the living environment more widely. New rolling stock, regular streets, understandable signs and real-time information systems help to create an environment that enhances the well-being of residents as well as the attractiveness of Estonia and thereby the competitiveness of Estonia. Let me give you an example. The development plan provides for the extension of the tram network to Tallinn airport. This will improve the airport's connection to the city, certainly create a positive first impression from Estonia and connect the growing Ülemiste business campus to the city centre. Local authorities are provided with funds from the European Regional Development Fund. In addition, there is a stopping measure, which I have already mentioned, and also when making investments of national importance, it takes into account how they contribute to local associations. I mentioned at the beginning of my speech that the development of transport must strive not to increase the negative environmental impact of transport. If we compare our transport with transport in Western Europe, developed Europe, then it is clear that our freight and passenger transport will certainly increase in the future with economic development. However, this growth is not as drastic as was predicted ten years ago. If much of this growth comes from public transport and, at the same time, new, more sustainable technologies are introduced, we will be able to meet the environmental objectives of transport. By new technologies, I mean, above all, fuel technologies. Firstly, it is clear that vehicles will become more fuel efficient. Secondly, new alternative fuels will become more accessible. According to the development plan, the first major change in alternative fuels is the increase in the share of gas vehicles. It should also be possible to switch to renewable gas produced in Estonia before the end of the period covered by the development plan. In the longer term, hopefully we will also see a breakthrough in electricity and hydrogen technologies. In improving international connections, we are paying more attention to our immediate neighbours. The development plan offers the objective of restoring train connections to Latvia on the existing railway, especially in view of the development of South Estonia. This requires close cooperation with Latvian colleagues. In the direction of Russia, the aim is to reduce the time taken to travel to St Petersburg to be less than five hours, and, in cooperation with railway operators and with the Russian Ministry of Railways and Transport, to find ways of arriving on the new rolling stock route to St Petersburg and Moscow. It is essential to ensure air connections with Estonia's important trading partners. We plan to continue investments at the airport. The proximity of the airport to the city is, in the opinion of the public, an advantage, but at the same time it means the need to invest in safety and environmental protection. We will also proceed with the development of Rail Baltic to start building the European Union during this budget period. The important objective of international connections is also to increase the competitiveness of the Estonian logistics and transport sector. This means that goods with higher added value should be transported and handled alongside bulk goods. This process has begun because the transport of goods to the east and west started to decline several years ago and companies have been looking for new opportunities for development. The most difficult situation is the railway. Freight transport by rail is so heavily dependent on bulk goods transported east-west that complete reorientation cannot be achieved. It is therefore necessary to keep costs at a reasonable level, to invest cautiously and to ensure a competitive service for those goods that pass by Estonian railways from east to west. Finally, I would like to highlight another cross-cutting issue: the use of information technology in the transport sector, i.e. the intelligent transport system. While the development plan does not explicitly mention at project level what we should do, it has been stressed that for all transport services, consideration should be given to how intelligent transport systems can make them more efficient and user-friendly. It is part of a better combination of different modes of movement and gives Estonian companies an additional opportunity to develop products and services that can be exported and to increase our competitiveness, as I said at the beginning. At the end of the day, I'm talking about the cost. In the annex to the transport development plan, we have planned the resources that the state intends to spend in one way or another to implement the transport development plan. That is EUR 3.3 billion, which is a lot of money. If the development plan is approved, it will certainly help to channel public resources to the right place. I wish you a constructive mind for discussion and courage to decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U171	Thank you very much, Minister Parts. You have many questions. Starts with my colleague, Kalev Kallo.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U172	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The development plan may be as good as it may be, but it is more important to implement it. Chapter 11 "Implementation of the development plan, monitoring, cost and implementation' states: "A four-year implementation plan shall be drawn up for the development plan, including the activities to be carried out, those responsible and the need for resources. The MKM will submit the first implementation plan for the years 2014 to 2017 to the Government of the Republic within three months of the approval of the development plan by the Riigikogu. " Similar sentences were included in the Maritime Development Plan. This implementation plan was approved approximately one year and two months after the approval of the development plan, not within three months. Do you dare to claim here that the first implementation plan of the transport development plan will actually be approved by the government within three months of the approval of this development plan in the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U173	Thank you. Well, that depends on how much debate comes with the parties. Today, the first version of the operational programme is ready; in the near future, we will send this opinion to interest groups, ministries and others. I hope it will be possible to close this procedure in three months. We are definitely under some time pressure that was not in place when we adopted the Maritime Agenda. Indeed, we are planning to use resources already this year as a result of the transport development plan. The final round of talks on the partnership agreement between Estonia and the European Commission is currently taking place. Once an agreement has been reached, in order to open up financial opportunities for transport investments, your acceptance of this development plan and implementation plan will require a number of legislative proposals and regulations. We are currently working on the idea that we will be able to complete all these work before the summer. However, it is not up to us, of course, to conclude the partnership agreement with the European Commission. If everything goes well, the pace is very fast, but we believe this task can be accomplished.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U174	Please, colleague Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U175	Thank you. Dear Minister, The development plan sets out the volume of international freight transport. While in 2012 it amounted to EUR 72 million, by 2020 it is planned to be EUR 86 million. It has also been said that growth mostly comes from the maritime sector, while freight transport by rail is falling considerably. Looking at the major problems that have been identified, I am very concerned about the tendency that freight transport by rail might decrease to such an extent that it could jeopardise the maintenance of infrastructure. How can we overcome this problem? Is that even a problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U176	I referred to it in my speech. There is nothing wrong with the fact that more goods are moving by sea. When we look at the activities of ports and several terminals, we see that they have found new and more value-added business models, the goods are brought in by sea and taken out by sea. These proposed figures have been developed on the basis of peer reviews and dialogue with market participants. Of course, these are forecasts, and that is the way to treat them. As far as rail freight is concerned, I think the key issue is our home view. We must maintain our competitiveness and the transport corridor. I dare say that the competitiveness of our transport corridor is quite good. We are certainly quite attractive and must not take steps to change this in any way. There is certainly also a need to invest in places where attractiveness can be enhanced. When we are talking about trade in the east-west, I believe that the central issue is still the agreements concluded within the framework of the World Trade Organisation, which also create equal competition in the east, i.e. the Russian, Kazakhstan and Belarusian customs union, so that the owners of the goods, whoever they are, can freely choose the freight corridors at the best service price. This is not yet a real situation, particularly with regard to various administrative decisions on railway capacity, but also with regard to tariff policy. If these agreements are honoured, I think that one bottleneck will be removed and Estonian companies involved in serving the Estonian transport corridor will have opportunities to compete better.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U177	Please, Mr Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U178	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister! My question is the link between the content and form of the development plan, the objectives and the means of achieving them. On page 26, I read that movement must be safe. I totally agree with that. The development plan further states that the transport system must be designed in such a way that no road user is killed or seriously injured, even if he is wrong in traffic. It's not a picky question, I just want to know the logic of the planners. How can this be done, for example, if a person does not wear a reflector in the dark and something happens to him?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U179	I think that, in the case of transport, the emphasis on safety is more than appropriate. That's one. Secondly, in the case of transport, the use of the word "safety" may seem like the discipline of a child when sent to school, but transport safety is a whole science with all its components, methodologies and technical techniques, which have been developed and are still being developed. One aspect also concerns what you have asked about. In fact, if a person is wrong about safety, other means should reduce the possibility of death or serious injury. That's it. The simplest example is that when we get in the car, we see a airbag and a lot of other technical equipment. If the driver is wrong, for example, if he falls asleep while driving, he may not be killed if the vehicle's technical equipment is in order. Such opportunities can also be applied in normal traffic management, on the streets of our cities and anywhere. This is the principle that has been emphasised here. I think that this principle must not only be applied away from us, where technology is developed and cars or other means of transport are produced, but certainly it can also be applied creatively in day-to-day traffic management.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U180	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U181	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, Three or four years ago the cooperation of the Port of Tallinn with Chinese ports was very topical. I could not find in the development plan whether such cooperation could continue in the future. Perhaps you will talk a little bit about whether such cooperation is still topical, or whether it is completely removed from the agenda and is the development plan a reflection of this?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U182	Please, my colleague Lauri Laasi!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U183	The development plan will certainly reflect international cooperation. When we talk about transport companies, internationalisation is simply an elementary requirement today. Our ports and other transport companies have no restrictions on finding attractive opportunities on the world market. I think it doesn't matter whether it's China or any other country, because it's actually very close to us. As far as the Port of Tallinn is concerned specifically, this cooperation will take place and will be developed. This was perhaps more on the agenda when real investments by Chinese companies in cooperation with Estonian ports were considered. This interest hasn't quite faded, but it's not so topical anymore. The reason must be asked by our Chinese partners. It is certainly important that our transport companies, including ports, have cooperation partners among as many ports in the world as possible, so that these ports can be connected by shipping routes and use all kinds of other means. Right now, that's how goods move. I'm sure that's what we're working on.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U184	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I remembered one of your initiatives that I really liked. I tracked it down on the Internet. The newspaper headline in 2011 said: "Parts wants to build the Tallinn highway with private money." This would have meant a PPP project that would have been built in three years on the Tartu highway in Tallinn. Well done, Minister, that was a really good idea and a constructive initiative! In my opinion, not only should the road of Tallinn be built, but also the Tallinn road of Pärnu, which connects us with Europe as Rail Baltic, which I approve. Wouldn't it be time to rethink this idea and put it into practice?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U185	I am trying not to respond spitefully today, although I have three thoughts on how to answer you. But I'd rather talk about the pace of investment, their volume and distribution over a period of time, which I've already touched a little bit. The development plan also addresses this. We must, of course, take into account how quickly we are building large transport sites. My opinion and, in my opinion, the opinion of experts, too, is that road transport should be developed in the direction of the major cities for which it is worth developing. We are not developing road transport to Stockholm or Helsinki, but we are still developing road transport by land to St Petersburg, Riga and why not Moscow. These roads must certainly be developed in the long term. It's a matter of pace. I think that the pace could certainly be faster in the construction of the Tallinn-Tartu highway, as the internal reason that Estonia should be more united joins here very strongly. You referred to the proposal to use private money at a heading level that was not correct. A regular person reads it out here like there's a pay-per-view. We did not agree whether this proposal would be reasonable or not. I do not rule out the need to come back to this idea, but in the development plan we do not foresee this kind of investment opportunities. Rather, the main source is the European Union's resources, but we do not exclude the construction of a loan if necessary. A compromise has now been reached in the government that important transport objects are being built at a moderate pace, including in the direction of Tartu and TallinnPärnu. Both sites will receive significant investments over the next seven years.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U186	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U187	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good minister! The content of the document on our tables is pretty good. The treatment of the topics is pleasant, and there are many deadlines and figures here. I like numbers. What I do not like is that although international freight transport has increased quite strongly in recent years, freight transport by rail has decreased. It's quite noticeable, almost twice in the last period. The development plan does not provide for anything to slow down the decline of international freight transport by rail. The Prime Minister has answered my question that we have agreed to this. Why have we accepted that our transit will be reduced?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U188	What have we accepted? I couldn't hear you. I understand you asked if there was more to come from the east. I said a little about Mr. Apple Tree answering that question. Our main activity here is to maintain and enhance the attractiveness and competitiveness of our transport corridor. There is also a certain responsibility on the part of the European Commission. However, given that we are a member of the World Trade Organisation, it is still important that in the economic space to the east of us, i.e. in the customs union between Russia, Kazakhstan and Belarus, the promises or agreements made and concluded by the Russian Federation be fulfilled by joining the World Trade Organisation. If this situation stabilizes, our attractiveness as a transport corridor and the competitiveness of our services will certainly play a greater role. When we think about our economic structure, it is very welcome that, using the resources of our entrepreneurs, we are constantly looking for new ways of earning more from every tonne of goods that comes to Estonia and goes out of here. The change in the market by some administrative methods has contributed to a more long-term sustainability of trade activities. I certainly do not agree that we should not fight our businesses for every opportunity that develops our market and promotes our opportunities. But I think we need to make a realistic plan and be sharp and concrete when necessary. I'm sure there's work to be done here. We are interested that the trade flows that pass through Estonia would be commercially sound and have a long-term sustainable perspective. It's very important. It is no secret to anyone that a completely new port has been built in our neighbourhood, whose cargo tonnage has grown enormously. It has been a clear policy, and we can only understand it in one way. I think that the situation could be a little different if all agreements on equal treatment and the free choice of the best transport corridor were to work. This is not a bad place for us. Yes, we point out that the tracks are critical. We cannot be unwary in making new investments and such things there.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U189	Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U190	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. The use of renewable fuels and the reduction of the environmental impact of transport are central to the transport development plan. However, you interviewed the British newspaper The Telegraph last August and said that you did not support the war against fossil fuels. How should this statement be understood in the context of the development plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U191	These are two completely different things, like night and day. The fact that economic levers must be applied to all economic activities in order to achieve less negative environmental impacts is a very clear understanding. The transport development plan also states that we must do everything we can (taking into account the developments around us) to reduce the environmental impact of our likely growing transport. We have offered an important opportunity for this, which has not been used much so far. It is a biogas that is a domestic resource, a better take-up. The key issue is its competitiveness. That's what I mean. You referred to an interview with The Telegraph. I have a request for you. Work harder, work with the source and create a context for yourself, then you'll understand my sentences, and you'll share my point.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U192	Please, my colleague, Urbo Vaarmann!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U193	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. One of the objectives of the development plan is high quality roads and smooth traffic. The major problem in Estonia is the maintenance of local roads, as the state completely neglected to fund them during the economic crisis. Does the development plan bring relief to municipalities, end the chronic underfunding of municipal roads and solve problems?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U194	The development plan proposes the principle of financing stable local roads. However, the development plan does not exempt local governments from the liability arising from the laws in force in Estonia. Local authorities have their own income base and the state finances municipalities further. We propose a stable principle in the development plan and we very much hope that no one will reduce this funding. This should give local authorities the opportunity to make a long-term road maintenance and development plan. The development plan also provides for a number of possibilities for municipalities to invest in new developments in cooperation with the State. This is particularly the case for larger municipalities, but there are certainly opportunities for smaller municipalities. There are also regional and urban measures. I was talking about the proposed programme on how to better connect rail with other modes of transport, etc. Here comes the extra funding. I dare say that when compared to the period that has ended, if municipalities are active and have plans and projects, funding may be even higher in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U195	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U196	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. This development plan will be valid until 2020. It is therefore a little strange that there is very little talk about Rail Baltic. In what state should the Rail Baltic project be in six years' time?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U197	Thank you. The development plan says that during this period we should make an investment decision, which means that physical construction work should also start.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U198	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U199	Thank you. Mr. Minister! I have a question about local roads. During the period covered by the development plan, it is planned to allocate up to 10% of the funds from excise duties on fuel to local authorities. We know that, at the same time, the use of alternative fuels is constantly increasing. Logically, excise duties on fuel should therefore decrease. Why do you want to put local authorities in a difficult position?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U200	We have also planned, at national level, the money for maintaining and maintaining roads due to the estimated revenue of excise duties on fuel. Our projections have been made for four to six years. In fact, the official forecast has been made for four years, but we ourselves, along with the people of the Ministry of Finance, have also tried to provide a longer estimate so that the financial accounts would be'multifaceted'. There will certainly be no dramatic change in this period, rather the opposite. Under the development plan, analytical work should be envisaged and fairer forms of taxation should be sought so that it is the one who is using you who will actually pay for it. At present, the fairest link exists with regard to excise duties on fuel. We all agree with that. I don't think the questioner's gonna buy himself fuel for the fridge, but he's gonna put the fuel he bought in the car and drive the car down the road. That's a very fair connection. However, if cars are coming from a completely different technology, this issue will be more and more on the agenda. But I don't think this change is going to happen overnight. As a result, the development plan provides for research and analytical work to explain what alternatives could be.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U201	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U202	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. My question is somewhat similar to the questions of my fellow Members, Mr Vaarmanni and Mrs Tuus-Laul, on local roads. It is certainly good to have fixed stable funding. But it's well known that 10% of the fuel excise that goes on local roads doesn't guarantee that these roads can be fixed. Once there has been a huge leap in money from excise duties, a stable situation can also be saved. I don't think this stable situation is satisfactory at the moment. In the meantime, this money should certainly increase in a few years. But here's my question. One of the objectives of the development plan is to clarify the distribution of roads into national, local and private roads. How do you plan on doing that? What type of road is increasing, which percentage is decreasing? What's the direction?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U203	First of all, we hope to inventory local roads and achieve better use of the road register. It would also provide practical information. The second issue we have discussed with the associations of local governments is whether, above all, new developments should not find any opportunities to increase the state's contribution, given the importance of one or the other route. So far, we have used this measure to fund these items on a project basis. These projects will be on the table this year, too, but I think this subject needs to be worked out. I certainly cannot imagine it, as Tallinn most vocally has demanded that the state take the avenue of Freedom itself, that it itself rides there, or take the St Petersburg highway, where important state cars are driving, why Tallinn must keep it in order. I can't imagine it that way. I imagine there could be a more intelligent cooperation format. The state cannot go to the territory of the municipality and assume its functions on behalf of the municipality. I see some opportunities for cooperation here. We are fixing in the development plan that this topic should be worked out. How many municipalities and what kind of area it is, it seems.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U204	Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U205	Thank you, Madam President. Good Minister, do not now accuse me or the social democrats of doing Greece.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U206	I've never done that.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U207	We're talking about borrowing by the state. Very many representatives in the business community have said that it is not very reasonable to increase the country's loan burden only in relation to the ESM or EFSF, because if there are major projects or operations that are very clearly of economic benefit to the country, it would be reasonable for the country to increase its loan burden. In the light of the transport development plan, have you been under discussion so that some of these projects could be completed more quickly if loan money were included and the Estonian state increased its loan burden in relation to the implementation of transport development plan projects?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U208	Please, Mr Aivar Kokk!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U209	I would not speak directly of a state loan, although I personally would not dogmaticly rule it out. But if I look at investments more widely, including transport, I think that if we take into account the size of the Estonian economy, the transport investment funds we offer are quite sufficient. There's always the risk that we want a lot at the same time, and the result is actually that the balance is going to go wrong. There is always a risk that these investments will reach such a level that they will create some kind of bubble. However, this could certainly be discussed if there is a project that needs investment more quickly. One was mentioned here by a prior questioner, a gentleman from the back bench, this is the Tallinn highway of Tartu. Personally, I'd be more open, but that's the government coalition agreement right now. Ivari Padar as Minister of Finance, by the way, also did not support the use of more intelligent methods of financing and to do a larger piece at once so that perhaps a few kilometres of tea could be completed cheaper. When we talk about transport, many investments we do without affecting the balance of the state budget, but in many ways, as we say, on the basis of a broader understanding, in the public interest. We are currently looking for options for investing in ships that provide public services. Or take these same trains, even they have not affected the balance of the state budget. We have managed to create a new train fleet without affecting the balance. Possible investments in airports and ports, for example, are such that we can act more intelligently, not only in the light of the fear of losing the budget balance, but certainly with a certain greater efficiency perspective.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U210	Good President! Good minister! Neeme took the words out of my mouth. If we look at the country of Estonia, it is sad to note that all people want to come to Tallinn, regardless of whether the living conditions here are perhaps no better than elsewhere. When I look at the transport development plan, I do not see my children traveling four-way from Tartu or Narva to Tallinn. When I see that the train traffic limit is still 120 kilometres per hour in the plans of the Estonian state for the next seven years, I wonder if it is time to issue state bonds and take out loans to build a ready-made infrastructure to help our economy recover.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U211	Thank you. Good questioner, your economic philosophy coincides more with that of Jorh Aadniel Kiur, while I represent the thoughts of Joseph Toots. Undissolved, we are talking about four-line roads. We have moved on quite a lot on the Narva highway, it is possible to travel to Rakvere on a four-way road, 100 kilometres. Should it be further developed? Yes, this perspective should be, but it does not give us anything in the short term if we spent all our building resources, for example, to take a four-line road from Rakvere to Kohtla-Järve, and we would like to achieve it, I do not know, before the 100th anniversary of the Republic of Estonia. It's potjom Kinlus, it's not a two-legged ground management. The same applies to the speed of trains. There is a clear plan to take the real driving time of less than 1 hour on the Tartu route 45 minutes. That's where the speeds come from. You can tell us that you want to get from Tallinn to Tartu in five minutes, that time is moving forward. But let's try to respect the seasons, the laws of nature, and also the economic laws. I'm sure we need to develop these subjects, but I think the sense of sober is saying that a big piece breaks your mouth. The idea of transport investment should be to move forward gradually and to invest in the right places where they will not only have a long-term but also a shorter period of impact on our well-being and on the competitiveness of the economy. We know a number of bad examples. The questioner spoke of Greece. There are airports in Spain that do not take off any aircraft. There are examples of this in our hemisphere. I think that investment should move forward with caution. However, I repeat that there are also projects that could be a little more ambitious. One of those where I would contribute more, if there were a broader political consensus, is the four-line road of Tallinn Tartu, which could reach Mäoni. Right now we're offering it to the Võubun, it's still 15 or 20 kilometers.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U212	Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U213	Thank you, Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu. Dear Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, If we look at this development plan, which is being presented here today and which has already been presented before in the Commission, we will see that the Estonian Air issue is quite modestly reflected there. What do you think is the position of Estonian Air in the aviation market in a few years' time or in the perspective we are discussing today, perhaps until 2020?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U214	Good question, by the way! The reality is that Estonian Air was essentially bankrupt in 2008. I repeat this once again because I think your partymates and the public have repeatedly mistreated this issue, claiming that it was as if the government or the Minister for Economic Affairs wanted to go into aviation business in the rush of state capitalism. We made this rather difficult choice at the height of the economic crisis, when there was a risk that if there was no extra money, this company would no longer be there and we would give a new blow to Estonia in the economic crisis by losing the very important part of the strategic infrastructure of air connections. We did so on the basis of this understanding that in order for high-quality air services to meet the needs of the Estonian economy, culture and education development, we need an airline to which Estonia is a home market. Looking at what has happened to one of our southern neighbours and what has happened in Central Europe, it is clear that the disappearance of such an airline could lead to a significant decline in high-quality air connections. This, of course, does not necessarily mean that the air routes disappear at all. That was our starting point. We are now working hard to repair and restructure the company. The European Commission is also examining this issue. These are issues where first we need to get clarity in the house. It may take a year, I find it difficult to estimate the time it takes, but this solution is not too far away. The question of the competitiveness of the company in the single European aviation market will undoubtedly remain. When outstanding Estonian entrepreneurs were active on the company board, the so-called critical mass was attempted. This structural problem is still facing this airline and will last for a longer period. There is another question. I believe that we have launched a serious political debate with the European Commission, which does not directly concern decisions taken in the past. This discussion is about the actual functioning of the European single aviation market and the impact of the market in countries with small domestic markets such as Estonia. The Commission is currently reviewing most of the State Aid Guidelines. A few weeks ago, the government put forward proposals for State aid guidelines for firms in difficulties of a non-financial nature and in need of reorganisation. Above all, we were guided by market distortions in the single European aviation market and by what levers we believe are needed in a situation where the Estonian state is or where it might end up when airlines find themselves in difficulties. I don't know how this discussion ends, but it's happening right now. I also call on Members to contribute here to clarify this issue. I believe that the Committee on European Union Affairs is aware of the government's positions. The overall attitude of the European Commission is quite clear: the market must do its job in aviation. Consolidation of European airlines will certainly continue. In conclusion, it cannot be ruled out that Estonian Air may have a chance to find some appropriate niches. We would, of course, welcome it if we could find real partners as shareholders. That's what we've always wanted. We work every day to ensure that there is a real interest in the development opportunities that a very small market share could have on the European Union market. This is the current situation. There are no guaranteed solutions here. But I think that, from the point of view of the transport development plan, everyone will agree: high-quality and evolving air connections are a very important component of our country's increased competitiveness.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U215	Andre Sepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U216	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I come down from the air to the ground and come back to the local roads. Action 2.1 of the development plan makes it clear that the inventory of local roads is being carried out. I very much hope that this will take place during the first years of the development plan. But my question is about the descriptive part of the same measure. It is considered whether the allocation of State resources could be linked to the "own contribution' of the municipality. It is clearly stated here that it is considering linking the allocation of funds to the need for the municipality to repair or build you. So far, local governments have been free to use this money. Are there plans to amend the road law and determine more precisely what this small 10% is planned for, or does this decision depend on the result of the inventory?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U217	It is our understanding that the state could invest these funds in this way. I don't think this transition has to be very steep. However, we would be happy to see that public funds are not used for normal road maintenance, snow-slitting in winter and patching holes in summer, but the municipalities would still improve the quality of roads with this money. That's what we want. In your introduction to the question, you mentioned inventory. We hope this will happen in the near future. I hope we can get a financing agreement with the local government associations.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U218	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U219	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, Action 4.1 "Enhancing the use of renewable fuels in road transport" highlights the increase in the share of electric vehicles. KredEx has been supporting the owners of electric cars for over a year, and they have tried their ride in winter. What has been the feedback? Does an electric car justify itself in our cold climate?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U220	Good question, but I can't rely on an analytical or statistical database to answer you. If you have any interest, we can certainly send you this information. This subjective feedback I have received from public authorities, local authorities and private users has been rather positive. There have certainly been ecstasy, but overall the feedback has been positive. We realize, however, that given the volume of our transport, this is a flagship project that does not create a new reality. We had the opportunity to make such an investment and it has already given much back to the Estonian economy in one way or another. I mean our partner, the big Japanese corporation, Mitsubishi. I believe that we have a number of small businesses that are already looking at international markets on this basis. You might wonder how to step by step expand the use of these cars. Surely you should not imagine that an electric car will soon be at the disposal of all of us.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U221	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U222	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, A number of measures have identified border crossings, the so-called Narva region. This is to be welcomed. There are two options. The first one envisages moving through the city of Narva and the second one relates to a new bridge, which is a problem in itself. One half of my question is the following. If we confirm this strategy today and we need to start choosing tactics, do you think the right option is what goes through the city? If so, how can we do this because there are restrictions ahead? Or do you still prefer the bridge option? Secondly, I would like to know whether there are resources for this and, if so, which ones.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U223	Thank you. In my opinion, the tactic is that we absolutely have to invest. Cooperation with the Eastern Neighbourhood, especially in terms of increasing border capacity, is very important here. Everyone should get across the border faster: trucks, pedestrians, buses, etc. Currently, a working group is working in quite detail on these issues, involving all the authorities involved in border crossings. In Narva, the starting point should be a little more ambitious and comprehensive. Here we have a pretty good cooperation with the Russian side. These topics need to be dealt with in one way or another, even if, above all, a different logistical scheme is created for trucks, so that they no longer pass through Narva. In my opinion, this is reasonable in the long term, but in the long term. This project has come to this phase that we have put this issue back on the table in the joint Committee on Transport with Russia. The Road Administration has prepared a renewed, new task that has been presented to the Russian side with a strong interest in moving forward with this project. We must consider that this is not just a bridge, but still all logistical transport solutions on both sides of the Narva River. Before this technical solution is coordinated at vision level, there is a need to discuss a huge number of technical issues. I think this is unfortunately a long process. We have to be realistic. Therefore, there is no point in being too afraid to invest in border crossings through the city of Narva. This border crossing must be streamlined and invested in it. These are not very large amounts if we look at the whole picture.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U224	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U225	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. It wasn't very long ago when Ivari Padar walked somewhere along the swamp and showed that there would be a new Tartu-Tallinn four-line road. It was then said to be worth about three billion kroons. Today, the price of this section of the road has increased at least five times. Would it still not have been economically appropriate to take out a loan and build this section of the road? It would have saved human lives. But since you've already answered that question a little bit, I'm going to ask you another question about economic thinking. Do we need a four-way road everywhere? Perhaps in some cases a three-rower would be enough, and we would be able to achieve our goal more quickly?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U226	Thank you. I guess you'll have to ask Ivar Padar. But I was in the woods with him, and I'm not gonna be ashamed of it. That was the plan. In part, things remain behind little will, but the realisation of this plan has certainly been influenced by the economic crisis. When we were in that swamp in 2007 or 2008, I don't think anyone could have predicted that this crisis would come so deep. I have explained my position, but today you have before you the transport development plan presented by the government. It is planned to build a road to Tallinn, where there are 2 + 2 rows, until Võõbu as a new route. It's almost the same plan that Ivar Padar and I had in the swamp. I don't remember if we had any stronger stuff on us. Tea professionals say that Mäoni is not a 2+2 line problem. You see, every way creates a reality in itself. I think that might be a purpose. Besides Mäo, there are real projects for several objects, such as the intersection of Mäeküla, the curve of Paia or the bypass of Põltsamaa. These are included in our plans and, in part, in the road map. They're not exactly written in this document, but the road plan is also public. These are all such sections of six miles and eight miles. In general, there are 2 + 2 rows for them, I dare say that it has been proposed to a large extent. If there are financial opportunities and we see that we do not overheat the market, then it could go on. In the road plan we offer this 2 + 1 line option on the side of Tartu to see how it will work. We have to realize that this is a completely different solution than 2 plus 2. Why are all kinds of intersections built on a road with 2 + 2 rows, where you can sharpen your tongue, asking if we are so rich? For a very simple reason: on this route (and not only according to Estonian standards, but generally accepted traffic standards) you can make a left turn. When a left turn is allowed, it is no longer a 2 + 2 row path. That's why you have to build these expensive detours and all that. It is not a political question; it is in many ways up to engineers and transport experts. We see some of these in front of 2 + 1 lines between Tartu and Põltsamaa and between Tallinn and Pärnu. We have seen them in Finland and Sweden. I think we could make one of those paragraphs, too. We will see to what extent this option works and whether it increases road safety.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U227	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U228	Thank you, Mr President. I don't know if my question is for engineers or politicians, but I'm coming to the railroad. There are a number of people who say that regional railway within Estonia is pointless and the only reasonable railway line is that which brings bulk goods from Russia to our ports. There are a lot of people who say that Rail Baltic is pointless. The transport development plan covers the years 2014 to 2020 - six years, which is not a long but rather a medium- or even a short-term perspective for transport planning. What do you think the Estonian transport network will look like in 2030?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U229	That's a very broad question. On the two issues you mentioned, Rail Baltic and intra-Estonian passenger train traffic, the development plan provides certain answers. It is hardly worth building entirely new passenger trains within Estonia. The development of Estonian train traffic for 150 years was still more of a decline, although with certain sinusoids. You've been active on the Haapsalu issue. Here we have hopefully reached a certain compromise. Let us see how new investments are going to work and look at this particular paragraph again, then we can come back to this issue. If you're interested in Rail Baltic, I suggest you read the AECOM survey. There was something about it today at Question Time. There is rather conservativeness, not extreme optimism about these figures. I remember that from the time the authors introduced me to this study. A new infrastructure, if it is truly a whole new one, can create a new reality. Perhaps this example is not suitable for Mr Apple Tree to shrubber shoulders, as he always does, but let us think about the traffic between Tallinn and Helsinki. Of course, there are many other attractions, but there were still a hundred thousand passengers a year in the beginning of 1999 and now there are nine million. Of course, there are different reasons, there are economic and personal relations and cultural exchanges, but infrastructure still plays a very important role here. After all, the new infrastructure is not planned without present or past data; it is always an important component.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U230	Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U231	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, This transport development plan, which is now going to be approved, certainly has a lot of good points. Perhaps it can reduce the negative factors that affect our daily lives and nature and thus improve our living environment. Of course, it is one of the drivers of economic development and will certainly improve people's mobility opportunities. As we know, the development plan states that every corner of Estonia should become another part of Estonia in three hours, for example Valka, the capital. If I go on a bicycle, an electric car, or a regular car that uses gasoline, how can I reconcile these different modes of travel? Is there any way to charge an electric car in a railway station, bus station or parking lot? How do you put all these movements together in this system?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U232	That is what the development plan stresses. It creates opportunities for municipalities, public authorities and institutions and private companies. When we talk about intelligent transport systems, compatibility, better use of information technology opportunities, the possibility for people to plan their movements, what this development plan envisages at the "implementation plan" level, we can plan various programmes. For example, we can foresee direct public investment to find new innovative solutions with private companies. We intend to allocate resources to make compatibility a little better. Let's be honest, there's compatibility now, but on a rather primitive level. Until we can't fix the connection to the Baltic station, for example. We often talk about big things, but look at the connection to the Baltic station. Or we could take the Old Harbor. This is Estonia's main passenger port with nine million passengers per year. People who go to the port to send and receive others may be added to them. There is actually no compatibility with other means of transport. I think there's a bus line going there. How many modern - day options, such as a tram or a bus, could lead people to the nearest public transport stop! There are many, many other ways. The passenger port should be based on a network of light traffic routes. We do not need to go to Valgamaa or some other remote area; in fact, our transport connection is also poor in 'central' places, where very many people are moving. Or the project that the tram could have gone to the airport. Here we have hopefully reached an understanding with Tallinn. There's 800 meters left to do. It must also be taken into account that there has been a huge number of jobs in this region. So there are projects like this, and they're right in front of us. But, of course, a lot of so-called soft stuff joins here. We should have uniform ticketing systems and larger cities should be able to overcome the differences that have arisen between those places and other places where people live and work. For two years, we have worked hard to get the Harjumaa Public Transport Centre, which is a common centre of municipalities, to create new public transport routes between people's homes and jobs and to change existing routes. That would be what would create prosperity, efficiency and savings. Of course, there are places where more resources need to be put, but some things just need human skill, attention and crying.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U233	Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U234	Thank you. Good minister! I'll come back to the Haapsalu railroad for a second. The question concerns the amendment tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs on the transport development plan, which I believe was quite well formulated. But if I read it now, I can see that its wording has been changed. The question is motivated by the fact that today in this Chamber we cannot change anything in substance, we can only ask questions and listen to answers. Perhaps you could comment in a few words on what led to this change in the wording?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U235	It seems to me that the current wording is even better than the wording proposed by the Committee on Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U236	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U237	Minister, thank you very much. On page 50 of this plan, I read that Rail Baltic passenger railway stations are planned in Tallinn for the Ülemiste region and the city of Pärnu or its neighbouring area. Am I right to understand that, if Parliament approves this plan, there is no point in talking on an official level about a possible Tallinn Tartu-Tartu-Valga route? I also have another question about Rail Baltic. What does Rail Baltic mean by this plan? A common person has realised that high-speed passenger train traffic from Tallinn to Berlin is allowed, but in the newspapers we read that the Poles are not going to do anything to establish a route between Warsaw and the Lithuanian border. You've been in contact with the Lithuanians. Maybe you can comment on what the Poles are doing? What do we really have to mean by Rail Baltic in this transport development plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U238	The transport development plan is based on the consistency of decisions. For ten years there has been a confrontation between Tartu versus Pärnu. The national plan for 2030 and a number of studies have shown that, above all, due to economic facts, the high-speed rail system, capable of serving trains running at 240 kilometres per hour, is more realistic in the direction of Riga, where the route is shorter. You asked what Rail Baltic was. Rail Baltic is, as I said, a railway infrastructure capable of serving trains running 240 kilometres per hour from Tallinn to the border between Lithuania and Poland. Rail Baltic, which is on the list of European so-called TEN-E projects, adds new connections to the north, especially towards Finland, and non-rail solutions. It marks our membership of the European rail corridor to Central Europe and beyond. Poland has been exceptionally supportive and constructive. We know that, from the Lithuanian-Polish border, rail infrastructure is in rather poor shape until Warsaw. I may be wrong, but in my opinion, the average speed there is 60 to 70 kilometers per hour. Poland has decided in its investment strategy for the next six years, despite Poland being a large country and having other priorities, that it will be possible to travel at a speed of 160 kilometres per hour on Polish soil near the Lithuanian city of Marijampoo and further to Warsaw. This has been confirmed by the Polish Prime Minister and the Minister for Transport and has also been openly said. As far as I am aware, this is also stated in the Polish strategic documents on official transport. Poland has said that if speeds increase to 240 kilometres per hour, as stated in Rail Baltic's definition, they are certainly ready to invest in addition. But there is no reason for us to demand more from Poland now. I don't quite understand the words in the public discussion, how to say, sarcastic critics who talk about the connection between Tallinn and Berlin. In the case of Rail Baltic, I appreciate that it helps to develop cooperation between Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania in the fields of economy, culture and tourism, and facilitates people's communication. It has a very important regional dimension. Rail Baltic's goal in the European context is very simple: our railway infrastructure must be connected to the continental European railway infrastructure in a modern and long-term sustainable way. That's the goal. People may get the impression that the only idea of this railway is that there is Jaak Allik and Juhan Parts in Tallinn, who want to sit on the train and drive straight to Alexanderplatz. That is certainly not the case. The compatibility of this project with other existing infrastructures, reasonable passenger services, as well as regional aspects, is very important. After all, we are talking about how this railway can be better used in the area between Tallinn and Pärnu. This is about Rapla and many other places like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U239	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U240	Thank you. My question concerns the conversion of Saaremaa's deep port from a passenger port to a cargo port. You will remember that when this port was built in the village of Ninas, the Bible was promised that it would remain a passenger port and that it would not carry the goods through it. The Minister certainly agrees that the new transport development plan is a highly thought-out and serious document. However, this document does not mention the deep port of Saaremaa, either in the transport of goods or in any other context. The deep port is also not mentioned as a commercial port in the current maritime policy development plan, which was adopted two years ago and is quite a fresh document. Where does this decision come from, this mandate to convert a passenger port into a cargo port? All the more so if there is no fixed connection to Saaremaa and there is an operational port in Kuressaare.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U241	There are certainly many ports not mentioned in the development plan. Perhaps the deep port of Saaremaa as such a peculiar project would deserve national thought. That's a pretty good idea. The management of the Port of Tallinn is responsible for what is currently being done by the Port of Tallinn, both the management board and the supervisory board. The Port of Tallinn deserves its assets and is looking for new opportunities. There is no need for a general meeting to do this, i.e. a yes-or no-word of the representative of the Estonian state as shareholder. This is my understanding of this legal environment. I remember the idea of deep port since the 1990s, but I was also at the beginning of the 2000s when this investment decision was made. Of course, this port was also considered to be an important commercial port. That was the idea. The area of use of the port was restricted for environmental reasons. If the Management Board of the Port of Tallinn considers it necessary to change this situation, then of course, if they respect all environmental rules, they have this opportunity, in some ways I even think it is a duty if they want to make their property serve better. It's really hard to put a hand on it. As far as I know, it doesn't need any special investments. However, there is a need for new environmental impact assessments in order to allow the transport of goods via this port.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U242	Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U243	Thank you. Good minister! Just a few questions ago, we talked about the high speed of passenger trains. My question is how the transport development plan reflects the safety of traffic or the reduction of traffic damage. There were times when certain categories of highways were allowed to travel 100 and 110 kilometres per hour. It's now replaced by normal speed, 90 kilometers per hour. Do you think it is right that limiting the limit speed is one of the best ways to increase road safety? Is there any developments to be expected this spring, or what could happen until 2020? You stressed that roads and cars would improve and that road users would become more correct. I'm asking why speed limitation is punishing decent road users.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U244	Good question. This has also been discussed by the Government Traffic Committee. It includes not only ministers, but also scientists, representatives of the authorities, traffic experts. This collection, which will meet on a regular basis since 2007, will deal with strategic traffic issues and analyse events in order to harmonise the activities of different authorities, civil society and local authorities. Indeed, there is currently a study on the relationship between speed and road safety. I'd like to wait for the results of this study. You can look at this topic in two ways. I agree with you, and this has also been the subject of a debate in the Committee on Traffic (this is why the starting point of the study has been set) that there are probably roads where we are overly restricting speed. This is clear, looking at the experiences of many other European countries. But in my opinion, one of the most difficult issues is what must definitely be worked out in the new road safety programme (this study provides the first input for this), that we have a lot of roads where 90 kilometres per hour is too much. The Committee on Traffic has put forward this idea and asked us to look into it so that we should still start setting the permitted speed by road. The objection of traffic specialists is that the more uniform the traffic is in different places, city and country, the better the patterns of road users develop. At the same time, the situation of our roads is actually that there are smaller roads where perhaps there should not be more than 70 kilometres per hour (I am not talking about the streets of the city now, I am talking about roads outside the cities), and there are roads where higher speed may be allowed. So that's the kind of work that's started. It is certainly interesting to see what the results will be and how we will come to some decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U245	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U246	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. Is the construction of light traffic roads a political decision? I know that the renovation of the Saverna road is being designed right now. Design and coordination are in progress, but there are no roads for light traffic. Well, it's probably planned two kilometers from Põlva, and then it ends, even though there's a couple of pretty big villages coming from there. On what does it depend whether or not light traffic routes are being built? Is this a political choice, or does it make sense?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U247	We have standards for road design. The other side of the matter is certainly financial opportunities. When we talk about the overhaul of state roads and new developments in this area, all kinds of collectors, side roads and light traffic routes are usually planned. This is usually the case when something is overhauled or built. I assume that's the case around Põlva. There are a lot of projects where there is cooperation with the municipality, they are co-financed with the municipality to do it. Over the course of ten years, there has still been a great deal more high-speed roads across Estonia. I think we should continue this work. But it's still a common sense decision. A political decision would be to have the Minister for Economic Affairs pick up the phone and tell someone to go and put some gravel and some lighter asphalt where it is needed, so that Mr. Tamm will be satisfied in Põlva County. We don't want a country like this, though at times you expect it from me.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U248	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U249	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. As Prime Minister, you visited an airport located in Jõhvi municipality and know the situation there. From my childhood, I remember that people could fly to Tallinn or St Petersburg, then Leningrad, once a day in the summer. There is another airport like this in Ida-Virumaa, near Narva. Have you and your crew discussed the future of these airports, or are they just waiting for a better time?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U250	The honest answer is that, from the point of view of transport connections, we currently have over airport resources. This is the case in Tallinn, where our main international airport is located, but in fact also elsewhere, where over the last five years the so-called local airports have been invested. Once again, we have over these resources. Under the fertile conditions of the Soviet power, these airports, for certain reasons, were very busy everywhere. But there is also Pärnu airport in the country's view, which has not been decided in one direction or the other, as its profitability depends on the negotiations. There are many airports like Jõhvi and Narva. We certainly welcome the fact that a local initiative will provide them with some kind of application. But I suggest you drive a car to St. Petersburg. You can go faster.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U251	Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U252	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister, I congratulate you on preparing this development plan. It's quite practical, it offers perspective and solutions, but there are little question marks and questions. I quote: "The aim is to build dust-free coatings on state roads on all gravel roads with higher use (frequency over 50 cars/days) by 2030, given the population's location and the intensity of road use. " Have thoughts and decisions moved or are there areas where there are more gravel to help others to catch up, or are there further gaps in living conditions?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U253	It was not about roads, it was about regions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U254	For gravel roads, yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U255	I can comment by saying a lot about the gravel road program. The road management plan has been approved. I'll just enlighten you if you haven't noticed. There is a very thorough part about this and there are even more additional materials. There, more or less all state-owned gravel roads have been thoroughly evaluated and ranked on the basis of various criteria. The road map provides a stable amount of funding, which we will probably be able to increase slightly in the coming years, and then these roads will be in such a beautiful ranking. With different technological techniques, make these roads so-called dust-free, that's what we can do. I didn't catch the exact core of your question. Are there any other criteria for choosing you? The criteria on the basis of which we have ranked gravel roads in different regions of Estonia to make them "dust free" are numerous. If there are any suggestions, I'd be happy to accept them and hand them over to the Road Administration. When we approved the road maintenance plan in the government office, it seemed to me that everyone admitted that this was an objective and fairly fair job, given all the regions of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U256	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U257	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! With regard to rail infrastructure, the problem is that the low freight volume of recent years on rail has created a situation where public rail management has become difficult for both the user and the owner of the infrastructure. What solutions does the government see as sustainable infrastructure management even in the long term?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U258	Thank you. There is little time, and I have already answered that question twice here. Apparently, the secretary of the group, who shared these questions with you so that you could fulfil your duties, made a mess of something. As far as possible, Mr Vasilyev, perhaps you will look at the previous questions from your two colleagues in the verbatim report. I gave them very long answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U259	Dear Minister, I ask you not to teach the representatives of the legislative power, members of the Riigikogu, what they can and cannot ask for!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U260	I didn't teach you right now!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U261	Okay. No further questions. I thank the Minister. I would like to ask Kalev Kallo, Member of the Economic Commission for the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U262	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. In the debate on the transport development plan under discussion, I dare point out, rather positively, that, on the initiative of the Economic Commission and its Chairman, the Commission was able to discuss this development plan before the government approved it, and we could also present our proposals. The Economic Commission discussed this development plan at its meeting on 19 September, where we listened to the views of representatives of companies in the transport sector. On 26 September, a more in-depth discussion took place with ministerial representatives Eero Pärgmäe and Toomas Haidaku. During the discussion, even before the development plan was approved by the government, I stress this once again, the Committee on Economic Affairs formulated six proposals on the basis of the proposals received from the members of the Riigikogu. This shows that the development plan had been relatively well and thoroughly developed. The small number of proposals shows that there are not many shortcomings there. After submitting these proposals, the meeting of the Economic Commission took place on Tuesday 14 January, where the referral to first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu entitled "Accepting the Transport Development Plan 2014 to 2020" was under discussion. As I mentioned, the Commission had thoroughly examined the text of the development plan before it was approved by the Government of the Republic. Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts gave us an overview of the key points of the development plan. A discussion of the members of the Economic Commission followed. For example, transport connections were asked through Tartu. During the preparation of the transport development plan, the Tartu City Government made a number of proposals that were not taken into account. These concerned air transportation and the train connection of Tartu and Riga. We received an answer that it was important to have a business plan for the airport. The state would face a heavy burden due to these proposals, as it is difficult to plan investments. In the case of train connections, Riga is an open issue; cooperation with Latvia would be needed. However, there is currently no possibility of investing in infrastructure between Tartu and Valga. I am now talking about the six points set out in the previous debate of the Committee on Economic Affairs, which the Committee on Economic Affairs presented in writing to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications before approving the development plan, and proposed that these changes be introduced into the development plan. In essence, five of the six amendments were taken into account by the Ministry. He totally ignored one. The debate in the Committee on Economic Affairs also raised the question that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has disregarded the proposal of the Economic Commission, which is at the level of 58 and which provides for the exclusion of a maximum rate of 10% for the financing of local roads. The representatives of the Ministry were not able to comment precisely on this at first. However, having seen that this 10% has still remained in the text, they commented about whether or not the rate is fixed in the development plan, it can be increased if necessary. According to the Ministry, it is important to give a signal to local authorities to make longer-term plans for roads. The reality of life, of course, shows that, if this 10% is fixed, any proposed increases will certainly be rejected by reference to the development plan. It was noted that Tallinn's development plan for the years 2014 to 2020 includes investments planned for external funds. It was answered that during the preparation of the transport development plan discussions took place with Tallinn in order to agree on projects that should be prepared for the new financing period of the European Union. Unfortunately, at the time this development plan was discussed, no agreements were reached. It was also stressed that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has given priority to two major projects in Tallinn, which should, if possible, be supported by European Union funds. These are the connections between Ülemiste and the city of the airport area, which the Minister spoke about in his presentation and long discussion, as well as the connections of the Old Port to the city, including, of course, pedestrian connections. This too was discussed more than once in the round of questions and answers. Finally, it was decided to propose, first, that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 22 January 2014. The decision was taken by consensus. Secondly, it was decided to propose ending the first reading of the draft. This decision was also taken by consensus. Thirdly, it was decided to propose a deadline of 5 February 2014 at 5 p.m. for the submission of amendments. This decision was also taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U263	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U264	Good manager! Good waitress! I have a simple question. Last night after five o'clock it was not possible to find the text of the transport development plan on the Riigikogu website; there was only an explanatory note outside. Is it natural that such bulky material is not available the day before coming to the hall?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U265	I'm just gonna say it's not natural. But since the materials were available in the Commission, I do not know if they existed on the website. I didn't study it because I had the materials in my hand. In my opinion, this text was also available here in the Riigikogu Hall, but I did not really check the website.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U266	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U267	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! My question relates to the forecast of the cost of the development plan and the table that is attached to the draft. Did you discuss the involvement of the local authorities and how this is going to happen at the meetings of the Commission? I've seen that only a couple of times has been mentioned here, but there are municipalities that are directly involved in all of this. I bring Narva here every time. The bridge of international importance is also on Narva's balance sheet and there are many other issues. How does this mechanism work? Where do these sources come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U268	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U269	Thank you. The answer could be that it is not quite clear how many percent the local government should be involved in one project or another. It is certainly necessary to engage and participate, but the development plan is actually a larger framework document. During the discussion, I asked the Minister when we will have the implementation plan, which will have to be developed within three months of the approval of the development plan by the Riigikogu. I believe that more precise solutions concerning specific amounts should certainly be reflected in the operational programme. This is not precisely stated in the development plan. I must say that we did not discuss this in detail in the Commission, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U270	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! I have a question about how work on the draft decision took place in the Committee on Economic Affairs. The advisers and the staff of the Chancellery are also involved in the work of the Commission, as are the advisers and technical staff in the political groups, who are preparing questions, speeches and various materials for us. Has the Minister for Economic Affairs, who has probably alone drafted this development plan, as it seems, made insulting remarks in the Commission on the skills of technical workers? Maybe he used some kind of name for them, like for the Lithuanians.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U271	Thank you. First of all, I have to correct the mistake that was made when I asked the question. I am not the chairman of the committee, I am the Commission's waitress. In the Commission, the Minister and Deputy Secretary-General gave explanations and other ministerial staff were present. I dare say that the debate in the Commission was correct and within the limits of mutual courtesy.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U272	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Aivar Koka, representative of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, will be invited to the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U273	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The new passenger trains that took place in January mark an important leap of quality in the development of Estonian public transport despite the difficulties of living in Estonia. However, carrot - red trains will certainly not remain the last important investment made in this area. I guess every new thing wants to get used to. Otherwise, it is not with new trains or a new company that organises passenger transport. The country wants to provide people with the best possible level and competitive public transport services, and a major step in this direction has been taken by the arrival of new trains on the line. This does not mean that the ceiling has been reached in the development of passenger train traffic. There is still a long way to go in Estonia in terms of quality public transport in the developed European countries. To follow this path, we need to know where we want to go and what needs of society must be met by public transport. At the same time, we must report that our resources are limited and that every investment needs serious consideration. The quality of public transport and, consequently, its usability are determined by the frequency of departures and the speed of distance crossing. As we know, the economic activity of the various regions of Estonia is self-evident. This has led to the emptying of peripheral counties and the concentration of people in Tallinn and its immediate vicinity. At the same time, the excessive increase in population in growth areas brings with it problems: property prices are increasing, people cannot have the necessary infrastructure for life, there is a shortage of kindergarten and school places, etc. In summary, there are many empty housing spaces in Estonia that are not in demand on the market, while people are forced to move to Tallinn because of their job, where they often live in worse housing conditions than before. Railways must ensure the transport of goods and passengers and ensure that connections become faster. Each investment must also generate added value. The high-speed railway in Tartu would unite two major cities in Estonia. Effective public transport is an important part of the economic bloodstream. The concentration of the population in cities is a global process, and it is unwise to fight it like Don Quixote. However, public investment can create conditions for people not to be concentrated in a single centre but in a number of centres. In order to ensure regionally balanced development of Estonia, the development of the Tartu urban area is critical. The future of the counties of Central and Eastern Estonia depends on the competitiveness of Tartu. One important condition for increasing the competitiveness of Tartu is connections with the rest of the world. Life shows that Ülenurme Airport will not be able to provide an air bridge so soon to work, which will have to use other means to move. One way is to create a fast rail link between Tartu and Tallinn. A common passenger terminal for air, bus, tram and train traffic must be built on the upper decks, which would allow, figuratively speaking, to step from a train to an airport or from an airplane to a platform to continue the journey comfortably. There is a need to improve the mobility of people and goods, i.e. to make them more economically, spatially and physically accessible, faster and more comfortable. Connections must be reasonable in view of the needs of passengers and freight transport, but, of course, technological possibilities and safety constraints must be taken into account. The new trains, which could travel 100 kilometres per hour, travel 100 to 120 kilometres per hour simply because the infrastructure does not allow for faster travel. The railway between Tallinn and Tartu must be reconstructed so that its distance can be reached in 80 minutes. Let us be Estonians, but let us become Europeans once and for all. Let us not talk about a speed of 120 kilometers per hour! Passenger trains in Europe were driving at this speed in the middle of the last century. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U274	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U275	The fast and high-quality rail link between the two major Estonian cities improves the business climate of Tartu and reduces people's desire to move to Tallinn. Good and diverse connections create the opportunity to work in Tallinn, but live in South Estonia, for example, without tearing up your roots. More than Europe's slow train connection between the three Baltic capitals we need fast connections within Estonia. These two issues must be combined, i.e. two birds must be struck with one stone. Let's build Rail Baltic through Tartu! This gives us a new railway line between Tallinn and Tartu, which allows for increased freight and passenger transport and regional policy, if necessary. In addition, it is important to assess with which other Estonian attraction centers Tallinn is still able to set up a fast train connection. There is certainly one such city, Narva, which should be rebuilt to better connect to Tallinn. The cost-effectiveness of establishing the Rohuküla railway must also be analysed. Investments in improving rail connections within Estonia are necessary regardless of whether Rail Baltic is coming, and their necessity does not depend on which route corridor is chosen for this purpose. Undoubtedly, both Tallinn and Tartu need good rail connections with the capitals of the other Baltic countries and beyond to Central Europe, but Rail Baltic does not solve domestic deficits. Just as the expansion of Tallinn's Tartu road must also ensure the interconnection of other cities, regardless of Rail Baltic, the development of the existing railway network in Estonia, the interconnection of different modes of movement and the construction of railway and road transport nodes must be dealt with. Public transport at a good level enables Estonian regions to develop at a more uniform pace and reduce the regional stratification of society. This helps to strengthen the Estonian regional centres, which are currently threatening to run into Tallinn. This will also help strengthen Tallinn in European competition. Of course, every project needs funding. I think that Estonia should not be afraid of issuing government bonds to finance important infrastructure investments, because it pays more than the failure to make investments from a number of points of view. Railways must support regional development. Rapid associations create a more level playing field for the development of entrepreneurship throughout Estonia. This, however, would increase economic growth and the country's tax revenue and create new jobs. Therefore, the IRL has decided that the above considerations must also be reflected in the transport development plan for the years 2014 to 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U276	Thank you. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group Jaan Õunapuu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U277	Mr President-in-Office and few of the Members who have remained in the Chamber. Dear Minister, Clearly, this is a very important document guiding the development of transport. This is confirmed by the fact that this scheme has links to 21 development plans and strategies. As often happens, the transport development plan remains general and partly superficial in many areas. Many politicians and local authorities have named the list of transport objects waiting to be invested as a letter to Santa Claus. The cost of the development plan is EUR 3.3 billion, but we also need to know that no account has been taken of the costs incurred by national companies or local authorities, as well as the general costs incurred by ministries in taking measures. As a dream, many of the necessary and regionally important objects remain, whether it is a four-line bridge connecting the Tartu-Tallinn highway or Muhumaa with the mainland. On the positive side, it can be pointed out that a fairly good overview is given of the current state of the transport system. Public transport subsidies have increased by more than 75% since 2006, with the largest increase in support for linking islands, which has been strongly contributed by politicians. At the same time, I must draw attention to the arguments put forward in the development plan that the use of public transport has been steadily declining in recent years. As a constant user of the bus and train myself, I cannot really agree with that statement. At least between Tartu and Tallinn, full-time buses and high-end trains are full of wooden riders, especially due to the changes made in train traffic this year. Tartu was a great challenge for the rider, especially in winter. There is still plenty of room for improvement for public transport operators on this route. According to the unofficial data of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, 600,000 people travel by bus to the Circa per year, while 250,000 passengers by train, while the number of passengers by car exceeds two million. The Social Democrats do not accept the modest purpose of the plan to build a new route with 2 + 2 tracks between Kose-Kõõbu section and Põltsamaa-Tartu at least two passways. The further goal should be to build the entire path into four lines. If all activities are taken into account, it can be said that these costs amount to EUR 2 billion. As far as international freight transport is concerned, it is expected that by 2020 it will achieve a capacity of at least 86 million tonnes of freight transport instead of the current 72 million tonnes. This growth should come from the maritime sector in most cases, while rail freight transport is decreasing in some respects. I would remind you that there are only four cargo ships under the Estonian flag. In 1992 there were 71, so they have been reduced more than 17 times. It is necessary to amend the tax system so that the owners return to the Estonian register with their ships. There are over 16500 kilometres of state roads in Estonia, over 18000 kilometres of private and forest roads and mostly 23000 kilometres of local roads. Local roads are in bad shape both in rural municipalities and cities. This is due to constant under-funding, which is due to the state's view that local road maintenance should be financed primarily from the municipal revenue base. Of course, municipalities and cities will find money in their budgets to maintain roads and streets, but there will be no improvement in the coming years with greater support from the state. National associations have proposed to increase the share of excise duties on fuel for municipalities, but this has not been taken into account. According to this document, until 2020, municipalities will have to accept that up to 10% of their excise duties on fuel will be received by the State, which is obviously few. Can I have a little more time, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U278	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U279	A separate subject relates to the railway. I will not dwell on the growing difficulties of Rail Baltic, although yesterday at the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs, the delegates raised a number of serious and not yet clear-cut questions. How are daily flows of goods and passengers ensured? For example, in 2030 nearly 3500 people should travel between Tallinn and Pärnu every day and 2500 people should travel between Pärnu and Riga. Instead of the large centres in Europe that have been advertised, we will be able to get to Kaunas, if not to mention the disputes that have started again over the path. It is good that the proposal of the Economic Committee of the Riigikogu to start preparatory work in justified directions, i.e. in the direction of the family "Haapsalu', "Rohuküla' and "Valga', has been taken into account. It is also considered important to reconstruct the section of Lelle-Pärnu and to increase the speed of the Tartu passenger train to 160 km/h. Finally, there are certainly many issues that could be mentioned in this programme. But I sincerely hope that what is written in the development plan will largely materialise and that the investments that are planned will be made. Certainly then Estonia will also become a better place, and the people will be more satisfied with the life they live in this country and will not look for ways to get out of here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-22_U280	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading of draft 560 should be terminated. I set the deadline of 5 February at 5 p.m. for the submission of 560 amendments to the draft text. The first reading is closed and the ninth item is also closed. Good fellows, today's session is closed. Closure of the sitting at 5.27 p.m.
