ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the Tuesday session of the 8th plenary session of the Riigikogu. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please, Tõnis Kõiv!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It's time for the former Soviet time to disappear around Lake Ülemiste. Long ago, Lake Ülemiste is no longer on the edge of the city. The settlement has changed, it has relocated to the southern shore of the lake, and the inhabitants can be read there in thousands. It is time to change the way you think and start protecting the lake, not from people, but from people living around the lake. On average, Lake Ülemiste flows as much water from the Pirita-Ülemiste Canal as the water treatment plant takes from there for drinking water. In the dry summer, the lake is also flowed from the Paunküla and Soodla reservoir, and in a rainy year, the excess water is released into the sea through a pipe from Russalka. As we all know, the Pirita-Ülemiste Canal and the water treatment plant are relatively close to the eastern lake, near the airport. A year ago, the Peetri Society launched the introduction of a road on the southern shore of Lake Ülemiste as a promenade. Rae Vallavolikogu supported it. The aim is to significantly improve the quality of life of the population. There has also been much to deal with the objections raised by misconceptions. The planned amendment does not allow water to go into the water or in winter. You are allowed to travel on shore, exercise, walk, cycle, etc. At the same time, we need to look at the current high risks and the quality of people's lives. This change takes account of all of this. The movement of people on the southern shore of the lake poses no risk to the quality of water. We protect the lake with people, not people! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U3	Thank you. The issues of lake protection are close to my heart as well. Please, Peter Laurson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U4	Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of myself, Priit Sibula, Erki Noole, Andrus Saare and Aivar Riisalu, I hand over the draft Act amending § 21 of the Packaging Act. It aims at improving the control of the payment of excise duties on packaging. The proposed legislative amendment harmonises and facilitates the monitoring of the payment of excise duties. Goods consumed locally will no longer be subject to any excise duty or tax on the ship, but all excise duties and taxes should be charged on the goods sold by them. Ladies and gentlemen, Secondly, I will also hand over the draft Act amending Section 491 of the Act on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by Peter Laurson, Priit Sibula, Erki Arrow, Andrus Saare and Aivar Riisalu, which also provides for more effective control of excise duty receipts and to help prevent fraud.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U5	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I've already handed over an inquiry with the same content here. I am thinking of an inquiry by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Urve Palole, which at the time was entitled 'The threat of the conflict in the Huvides'. In my opinion, a kind of conflict of interest is also how the President of the Riigikogu rejected the question, considering the subject too narrow a single issue. The inquiry concerned the creation of the holding company of Rail Baltic and what is happening around it. We inquisitors, however, found that this issue still deserves to be addressed in this Chamber. We have somewhat broadened the subject of questioning, which is now corporate governance. Last time we asked two questions, now we are going to ask three. We hope that this time the President of the Riigikogu will also consider this subject worth discussing in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U7	Thank you. There are no further drafts or inquiries to be submitted. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted three drafts; the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides to accept them in accordance with the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. I have also accepted an inquiry. If it complies with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu shall forward it to the addressee without delay. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Since today, after the end of the sitting and tomorrow before the beginning of the sitting, television clips will be filmed in the Chamber, I would ask you to take the materials from the tables and drawers with you. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. Currently 89 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, 12 are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U8	We will discuss the items on today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Penal Code and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. Any requests? No, it's not. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote on 751. Since the adoption of this draft as a law requires a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu, we will do the verification of presence once again. 88 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 13. I vote on the draft law amending the Penal Code and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic 751. Please take a stand and vote. 70 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U9	The second item is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu on 'Construction of the Parliamentary Assembly of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation' proposed by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I would like a presentation by Andre Sepa, member of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U10	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. The content of draft decision 783 is to amend the decision of the Riigikogu of 10 May 2011 "Constitution of the Estonian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation', to exclude Mati Raidma, a member of the delegation, and to appoint Jürgen Ligi as a member of the delegation. No amendments were tabled to the Committee on Foreign Affairs by the deadline of 28 November. At its meeting on 8 December, the Commission decided to consensually propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft 783 be placed on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday, or today's session. The Committee on Foreign Affairs proposes that the draft be put to a final vote and adopted as a decision. The draft of the Committee on Foreign Affairs at first reading is before you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U11	Thank you. George Ratas would like to ask a question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U12	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! Are you sure that this person is willing to take this position himself?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U13	Yes, the person has agreed to this, and the speaker in front of you is certain of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U14	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Andre Sepp! Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. No amendments to the draft have been received. As the proposal of the lead committee was to put the draft to a final vote, we will begin the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the amendment of the Riigikogu decision 'Constitution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation' by the Riigikogu, submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, draft 783. Please take a stand and vote. 66 delegates voted in favour, there were no respondents or abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U15	The third item is the first reading of the Riigikogu's decision "Vive Ligi as a member of the Supreme Court" by Priit Pikamäe, President of the Supreme Court. I ask for a presentation by the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rait Maruste!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U16	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill was initiated by the President of the Supreme Court on 26 November. The meeting of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu took place on 9 December, the members of the committee participated, and Priit Pikamäe, the President of the Supreme Court, and Viive Ligi, the candidate for a member of the Supreme Court, were also present. First, Priit gave an overview of the situation in Pikamägi. He said that Harri Salmann, Judge of the Administrative Chamber of the Supreme Court, was going on retirement pension and that a competition had to be opened to fill the vacant place. Three valid applications were received for the competition. After Viive Ligi, Tiina Pappel from the Tartu Circuit Court and Nele Parrest, Deputy Chancellor of Justice, were nominated. The General Assembly of the Supreme Court discussed these statements and stayed on the candidacy of Viive Ligi. That is why the President of the Supreme Court submitted this draft decision. Mr Pikamäe explained that Viive Ligi has been behind him for years of judicial work. He has been a judge of the administrative chamber of Tallinn Circuit Court since 1993, a very senior, experienced and valued colleague. Jaak Aaviksoo then asked whether a college would be called when he announced the competition. Tallmäe replied that the competition always shows which college a person should work in. Viive Ligi explained that he thought about the application very long and hesitated, because working in the Supreme Court and making decisions there is a great responsibility. The speaker asked why the Supreme Court has gone this way, that the constitutional review has left aside the possibility of declaring an act unconstitutional, and asked whether the candidate for a member of the Supreme Court was in favour of this practice, that the act was first considered unconstitutional and not the act prior to its application. Mr Ligi explained the subject, there was a longer debate, but I will not introduce the details here. Jaak Aaviksoo asked whether Estonia's legal culture is moving in the right direction in the transport of the Supreme Court or whether the candidate also sees any developments that could be considered critically as a whole, especially with regard to administrative and state law. Mr Ligi replied that he was quite satisfied with the current developments, although in the meantime it seemed that the administrative college had become too formalistic, because the decisions required too much of the officials to motivate the administrative act and there was a great deal of caution in justifying the positions. Jaak Aaviksoo pointed out that he had 13 years of experience in the field of education, and during this period the volume of supervisory acts increased six times. The longest, the kindergarten supervision act was 27 pages, but it never became clear whether it was a good or a bad kindergarten. The speaker here agreed with Jaak Aaviksoo that the Supreme Court could also point out that we have gone down the road of overregulation, and the Supreme Court should take the view that not all things in our country need to be regulated by law-level legislation. Tarmo Tamm asked whether the court did not intervene too much in the activities of the municipalities and whether the local authority could still be autonomous. Viive Ligi explained his understanding. He said, among other things, that the way in which the court settles the case is, in any particular case, the responsibility of the court and that judges must explain their decisions. Rein Lang wondered whether the purpose of the administrative court was in any way to draw attention to the fact that the local government could act irrationally and whether the purpose of the administrative court could be to protect people from the stupidity of the municipality. Some respondents said that it was not possible for the courts to check the feasibility, but sometimes the limit between rationality and legality is very indirect and unclear. Finally, the Commission took the following decisions: Firstly, it was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 16 December, today (this was a consensual decision). Secondly, it was proposed that the draft be put to the final vote (also a consensual decision). Thirdly, it was decided to appoint a speaker (also by consensus) to act as rapporteur. Finally, the committee decided to make a proposal to the candidate for a member of the Supreme Court in accordance with § 117 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu Act to present a presentation to the assembly for up to five minutes (this was also a unanimous decision). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U17	Any questions? There are no questions. Thank you, Rait Maruse! I would like to present a speech chair for a candidate for a member of the Supreme Court, Viive Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U18	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased to have a microphone for a short speech before the round of questions begins. I would like to talk about access to the Court, as this was also the subject of meetings in the political groups and in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. In addition, the right of access to the court in Postimees was concerned by the Chancellor of Justice of 19 November, noting that the lack of precise regulation to distinguish between an individual act and a general act hinders the exercise of the right of appeal by an individual. The last Thursday Postimees also discussed whether the explosive increase in the number of inmates' complaints at the beginning of this year could affect the ability of administrative courts to resolve complaints by other persons within a reasonable period of time and mentioned the need for a legislative amendment. According to § 15 of the Constitution, anyone whose rights have been violated has the right to apply to the courts. This is a general guarantee of the courts, which must be guaranteed by the legislator in the form of procedural rights which comply with the constitutional requirements, and the courts in turn must understand the right correctly and in accordance with the rules of procedure, also following the rules of the Constitution. In his article, the Chancellor of Justice stated that the dispute often takes over whether a person has contested a general act or an individual act, the lion's share of the time of the court proceedings, and the substantive problem remains unresolved. In the case of a general act, the courts recommend that they finally address the Chancellor of Justice, who will then be able to challenge the constitutionality of the Supreme Court. The Chancellor of Justice recommended that, on the basis of the title of the act on the right of appeal (the administrative court may be sued against acts entitled "order' or "order', or allowed to challenge general acts before a court in the event of a substantive problem. I believe that this is not a problem requiring legislative intervention and it is enough to train judges and guide case law. Where the appellant reveals the facts on which his claim is based and the purpose of the appeal, the court shall, where appropriate, be required to recommend the lodging of the relevant claim and the Code of Procedure shall enable it to challenge the substantive problems arising from the implementation of both the individual act and the general act. Therefore, the correct application of procedural rules should not lead to the exclusion of a person whose rights have been infringed and the legal effect of the general act not being verified. Although the Chancellor of Justice was right in that regard, the administrative court has often practiced failure to act on complaints, which is in itself the right instrument to correct claims before proceeding, but may become a farce if the court's instructions are unclear. The practice, where the administrative court dismissed the complaint and the person was repeatedly recommended for formal reasons to supplement the complaint or explain the offence, is disappearing with the increase in the professionalism of judges. The problems arising from the increase in the number of inmates' complaints concern in particular the Tartu Administrative Court and the Tartu Circuit Court, where the number of inmates in two large prisons reaches 60% of the total number of cases. This percentage is around 20 in the Tallinn region. As the number of complaints increased sharply at the beginning of this year, there is a risk that the complaints of detainees will obstruct the court and that the time for examining all complaints will be prolonged. However, a noticeable overrun of the reasonable period of time for the settlement of a complaint means that § 15 of the Constitution has been violated, the addressee of which, as I mentioned earlier, is both the legislator and the courts. Therefore, the need for legislative intervention cannot be ruled out in order to ensure effective legal protection for all those who have recourse to the Court. A significant proportion of complaints from inmates have been submitted by dozens of persons who may be the subject of abuse of the right of appeal. They challenge every step of the prison, mostly without perspective. The limitation of the right of appeal of such persons could significantly reduce the number of complaints if an effective and constitutional measure were found. In the meantime, however, the courts must make use of the possibilities provided for in the Procedural Code and try to find time to deal with major offences. In conclusion, I would like to say that the law must be amended as rarely as possible and as often as necessary, and sometimes it is enough to introduce a better practice. Thank you for your attention. I'm ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U19	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Looks like everything's clear. Thanks a lot, Viive Ligi! The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote on 792. We're getting ready... I'm sorry, I was in a hurry! Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote. According to § 79 (2) (3) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, voting at the Riigikogu session is secret when a member of the Supreme Court is appointed. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Vive Ligi as a member of the Supreme Court" submitted by the President of the Supreme Court, Priit Pikamäe. Please take a stand and vote. 71 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, one against, with no abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision. Congratulations! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U20	Let's go to the fourth item on the agenda. The second reading of the draft law amending the Public Health Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Aare Heinvee, Member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Chair, please present.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U21	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the draft law amending the Public Health Act initiated by the Government of the Republic was completed on 3 December 2014. No amendments were tabled by members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees. The Committee on Social Affairs prepared the draft for a second reading at its meeting on 9 and 15 December. The Committee on Social Affairs decided to make one amendment: § 2 is deleted from the draft, according to which the Act would have entered into force on 1 January 2015. In view of the reasonable time and procedures for processing the draft, for declaring the law and for publishing it in the Official Journal of the State, the Commission decided to enforce the law in general terms. According to the Ministry of Social Affairs, the entry into force of the Act in general does not lead to negative consequences. The Committee on Social Affairs decided (5 in favour and 3 against) to send the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 16 December, to propose that the second reading be stopped, and when the second reading is completed, we propose that the draft be put to third reading on 18 December. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U22	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you, Aare Heinvee! Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. There is one amendment to the draft, which is from the lead committee. Let's go through it. The amendment is from the Committee on Social Affairs, and the proposal of the commission is to be fully taken into account. The amendment has been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of Bill No 756. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U23	The fifth item is the second reading of the draft Act amending the Environmental Charges Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. For a presentation, I would like to ask Tõnis Kõiv, Member of the Environment Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U24	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Environmental Charges Act 778 was, as we know, at first reading in this Chamber on 10 December. The deadline for submitting amendments, which was the day after the first reading, i.e. on 11 December at 1 p.m., no proposals were received. At its meeting on Thursday 11 December at 1:08 p.m., the Committee on the Environment discussed sending the draft to second reading. During the debate at the meeting of the Commission, the Member of the Commission, Urbo Vaarmann, wanted to send the draft for the opinion of the Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Riigikogu instead of the second reading. After a brief debate on the proposal, there was a vote. The proposal was not supported by 2 members of the Committee on the Environment, 4 against and 1 abstention. Procedural decisions were then taken. First, a consensus was reached on sending a draft of 778 to the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for second reading today, on 16 December. Secondly, the proposal to close the second reading was voted on (by 5 members of the Commission, no one opposed and no abstentions 2) and thirdly, a consensual decision was taken that if the second reading of the draft was completed, it would be proposed that the draft 778 be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for the third reading by 18 December 2014. As I said, it was a consensual decision. Equally consensual was the decision to put this draft to the final vote on 18 December. Obviously there is no need for a repeat, but I will say, however, on the content of the draft, that the draft will continue to apply a factor of 0.5 for the calculation of the mining right fee for sand and gravel mining on land below the groundwater level without lowering this level. This coefficient is currently in force and would have become 1 since 1 January 2015, but now a factor of 0.5 is still being used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U25	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson, question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U26	Thank you. Dear waitress, Last week, the Central Party proposal was voted out in the Riigikogu so that the reduction in the tax percentage next year would be avoided. It was said to be counterproductive to the legal expectation that the tax would be lower next year. You have today, on 16 December, come up with a proposal that the budget revenue of several municipalities be lower than planned for the next financial year. You want to take away their profits two weeks before New Year's. What about the principle of legal expectation here?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U27	Thank you for your question. In my presentation, I gave an overview of what was discussed in the Committee on the Environment in preparation for the second reading of draft 778. I am here on behalf of the Committee on the Environment and will give an overview of what has happened in the Commission. I would simply point out that all these issues were discussed at the meeting of the Committee on the Environment on 1 and 2 December and in this Chamber on 10 December when the first reading took place here. Today, there is a second reading and an overview of what happened in the Committee on the Environment before the draft was sent to second reading, which I have just given.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U28	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U29	Thank you. What about legal expectations? Municipalities have planned the budget revenue that you are now reducing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U30	Thank you for asking the same question for the second time. I do not regret to recall what was said in my presentation on 10 December that letters were sent to the Cities Association and the Association of Rural Municipalities in September 2014 for an opinion on this draft. The Committee on the Environment also used the written opinion of the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu to send the draft to first reading, according to which there is nothing unconstitutional in this draft. This was now once again an overview of what happened. We did not talk about this at the meeting of the Committee on the Environment where we decided to send the draft to second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U31	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U32	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! According to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, you can also ask about the content of the draft at second reading. The commentary on the Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs states that it is not only about who asked and who replied to the Commission's second-reading debate. So what Kadri Simson asked was entirely justified and you have an obligation to answer that question. But it was not a question of whether there was something illegal in this draft, although legitimate expectations are also stated in the Constitution. I will repeat this question for the third time. With this bill, you will reduce by half the revenue generated by local governments, which, according to the law in force, would generate more revenue from mining next year. Municipalities have accounted for more revenue and have drawn up budgets on this basis. In some municipalities, the first reading of the budget is over; in others, the second reading is already over. What about the legitimate expectations of local authorities? They were hoping for a higher return, as the law says. Today, the Commission is reducing this expected revenue according to the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U33	Thank you for your question. Thank you also for the reference to the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act! Knowing that you can ask for anything, of course, we have even without the rules of procedure. Of course! Similarly, there is the knowledge that the rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment does not present his or her personal views here, does not represent his or her party or political views here. In fact, it should best give an overview of what has taken place in the Committee on the Environment in the course of this specific draft law procedure. That is what I have been trying to do by giving an overview of what happened at today's meeting, which discussed sending the draft to second reading, and of the first reading on 10 December, when you received an overview of what took place in the Committee on the Environment in the run-up to first reading, that is, the meeting on 1 and 2 December. I would like to stress once again that there are quite a few pages in the explanatory memorandum to the draft law amending the Environmental Charges Act on the tax side. This concerns the environmental impact of the amendment, which is clearly very important to the Committee on the Environment, as well as the potential impact of tax receipts. All the arguments put forward in this respect have already been put forward from this remote control. I don't see the need to repeat them many times. Each debate will take place when it is taking place.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U34	No further questions. Thank you, Tõnis Kõiv! I'm opening negotiations. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U35	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Today we are discussing a draft law amending the Environmental Charges Act, which complements the law with the provision that, in the case of sand and gravel mining on land below the groundwater level, a factor of 0.5 is applied to the calculation of the mining right fee. Without the proposed amendment, the preferential cap on mining rights would expire and mining rights should be paid for in full, under the Environmental Charges Act adopted on 8 December 2010 and the Act amending the Law on the introduction of the euro, which provided for the abolition of the preferential coefficient from 1 January 2015. Let us be honest with you that the problem with this draft is that it concerns several parties. On the one hand, the restoration of the preferential coefficient for the extraction of sand and gravel below the groundwater level is very reasonable from the point of view of the operators. Such a coefficient should also make undertakings acquire up-to-date techniques and, instead of expanding their careers or establishing a new career, also apply for mining rights to land allocations below groundwater levels. Mining of sand and gravel below groundwater levels will allow fewer land to be used under mines, which will have a positive impact on the natural, social and economic environment. Unfortunately, there is another side of this law. The restoration of the preferential coefficient from 1 January 2015 will eliminate a double increase in the fee, resulting in fewer environmental charges for municipalities than planned for 2015. Last week, we heard here that there was no reduction in the rate of income tax, that legitimate expectations had to be taken into account. Do municipalities also not have a legitimate expectation that environmental charges will increase next year? What does the draft explanatory memorandum say about this? I quote: 'The income of local governments and the state will not change as compared to the situation in force until 2014. There is no additional revenue from the loss of the coefficient. In addition, it should be borne in mind that this is not a potential loss of revenue but that there is no expected increase in revenue. " The explanatory memorandum also states that the municipalities were aware of this decision before the budgets were approved. Today is the second half of December and it is less than two weeks before the beginning of the year. The Association of Estonian Cities and the Association of Estonian Rural Governments have given their opinion on the draft. They point out that the abolition of a change known for several years immediately before its entry into force is hampering the legitimate expectations of local authorities that the regulation adopted in 2010 will be maintained. These changes have a negative impact on the budgets of the municipalities. Any reduction reduces the resources needed to carry out the tasks of local authorities and affects the volume and quality of services provided to residents. In addition, the Government of the Republic did not notify the planned changes in the negotiation of the 2015 state budget of the delegation of the Municipalities Cooperation Council, and local authorities have taken into account the current law in preparing their 2015 budgets. Unfortunately, the Centre Party Group cannot support such a bill to reduce the local government's revenue base. We therefore propose that the second reading of the draft be discontinued. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U36	Any more calls? There's no call. No amendments have been received, so we cannot review them. Although the proposal of the commission is to conclude the second reading of the draft, the proposal of the Estonian Centre Party Group to amend the Environmental Charges Act draft 778 has arrived at the Executive Board of the Riigikogu to interrupt the second reading. We must vote on this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal of the Estonian Centre Party Group to interrupt the second reading of the draft Act amending the Environmental Charges Act 778. Please take a stand and vote. 16 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 48 against and no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Second reading of the bill is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U37	We're going to the next item. The second reading of the Act amending the Law on district heating and natural gas initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. For a presentation, I would like to ask Deniss Borodichi, member of the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U38	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, Let me remind you a little bit of the earlier procedure of the draft. The Government of the Republic initiated the draft s. On 10 March 2008 and the first reading took place in this very hall on 21 May. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the draft before sending it to second reading on 12 and 17 June, 9 September and 9 and 11 and 15 December, so well on several occasions. We also held public sessions involving representatives of a wide range of organisations and local authorities. I am talking about the main topics on which the discussion took place. The introduction of a two-tariff price is very novel. It is basically the same principle as for electricity, where the grid and production are separate. In the case of district heating, there would be a fixed fee, i.e. one component of the network charge and a variable fee, i.e. another component of the production charge. This possibility has now been granted to producers with such a concordance that the price must be coordinated with the Competition Authority and all pricing principles must be explained to the residents one year before the amendment is implemented. Another major change compared to the first reading is that the Commission has decided to exclude the entire regulation of the reference price from the draft. Why? As you will recall, the introduction of the reference price was justified by the fact that the Competition Authority had to reconstruct an ideal model based on the efficiency and costs of the ideal boiler house and an ideal network with all components, and consequently the price of one unit would have developed. Those heat producers who could produce heat below the reference price that the Competition Authority would have ravaged would not have had to coordinate the price with the Competition Authority in the future. However, it should be taken into account that the capacity of boiler houses across Estonia is very different, that the structure of the network, its length, condition etc. is also different. The unit price may therefore vary greatly across Estonia. We cannot compare Tallinn and Paide, for example, where the density of settlement is very different, the length of the nets is very different and the boiler houses are also very different. Therefore, in the Commission's opinion, we cannot defeat all heat companies across Estonia with a single table. The Commission also discussed the possibility of setting different reference prices which would take into account different production capacities, but unfortunately or fortunately the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications was unable to propose these solutions. The Association of Municipalities proposed exactly the same thing that there could be several prices, because it would be wrong for them to impose one price over Estonia, because the producers are different. But this regulation could not be developed. We also considered that the Competition Authority has only recently commissioned a study from the Technical University on how reasonable it is to apply the reference price and whether there should be one price model or more. This study is not yet available and we do not know the answers. The greatest risk is that the introduction of the reference price will lead to an increase in prices, because, as I said, those producers whose production price is below the reference price will not have to coordinate the price with the Competition Authority in the future. In practice, this may mean that they may start to increase the price each year until the reference price level comes forward. True, the bill has set a ceiling of 5%, but let's look at Narva, where the current price would be significantly below the reference price. I don't think people would be happy to have a 5% increase every year knocking on the window. Therefore, this regulation may be correct and necessary, but the Commission took the view that the wording was too crude. We did not rule out that later, in a year's time, for example, we could come back to this issue, but now the Commission has decided to withdraw it from the draft regulation. As a last set of topics, it was under discussion to give existing producers the opportunity, even if they did not win the competition for heat production, to take the place of the winner. What does that mean in practice? For example, there is a competition in Tallinn. Suppose the price is now EUR 50 per megawatt, the old man offers EUR 45 and the newcomer EUR 40. According to the amendment, the old man, although he offered a higher price, would have the opportunity to take the place of the winner, i.e. to start producing 40 euros. Of course, he can give it up. There were a lot of questions about this proposal. Firstly, the issue of State aid. The second thing is, do we have to deal with this ex post, or should this regulation only apply to those competitions that come after 1 January 2015? The Commission has received a large number of views on this change, both from the district heating company and from the Competition Authority. Some say that it is not equal treatment for old ones; others say that it is not equal treatment for new entrants, because a new potential producer is in a worse situation than an existing producer because it does not have the right to enter into a long contract. This was the case and is reflected in the results of the vote. The problem certainly exists because, although the contract can be concluded for 12 years under the current law, the Competition Authority takes into account depreciation periods, which may last 20 to 30 years, which hypothetically threatens existing producers, which after 12 years, for example, will not win the competition but whose assets have been halved. So it's up. One solution may be this But this is the subject of the future, and it is not included in the amendments. Amendment 15 is the one that allows an existing producer to replace the winner, and No 16, which cannot actually be dealt with without the 15th proposal, provides when this principle will apply, either ex post or as Amendment 16 provides, only to undertakings with whom a contract has been concluded after 1 January 2015. Against this background, the Committee on Economic Affairs decided to submit a draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu today, 16 December, and to propose that the second reading be stopped. When the second reading is completed, we will be proposing a third reading on 18 December and a final vote on the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U39	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U40	Thank you. Good waitress! As regards the duration of the lease contract or the contract for the production of heat, 12 years, and the fact that these equipment actually lasts longer and their depreciation takes longer into account by the Competition Authority, we understand this mismatch and the problem. When four years ago the Riigikogu adopted a decision that the contract could only last 12 years, it probably affected the interests of certain producers. Is it known that these producers have turned to the judicial system to defend their rights and have challenged the 12-year limit?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U41	Thank you. As far as I know, there is no debate on this issue in the judicial system.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U42	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U43	Thank you, manager. Dear Commission waitress, I think that this draft did not solve the fundamental question of how to achieve that the heat producer would choose the cheapest type of heating, because there is simply no competition in smaller production areas. Then people are chained to a more expensive type of heating because there is no competition and that is inevitable. How do we solve this? The law should also oblige the producer to choose the cheapest type of heating, since it is known that the price difference between the types of heating is even about a quarter.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U44	Thank you. That's a good question. One part of the draft is that the local authority should draw up a district heating development plan for its territory. Why? Just to find out what is the optimal way of producing heat in this region. If memory does not deceive me, then for the next period, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications budget provides for EUR 84 million in foreign funds.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U45	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U46	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, thank you for your review. But, as I understand it, this issue concerns more regions, not large municipalities. You spoke of new bidders who have to compete in today's infrastructure. But you also mentioned Narva. How could it be in Narva? There's a monopoly, and he's got the whole system. At present, only larger housing associations may make themselves small, gas-fired boiler houses. But those who did it ten years ago actually lost. How do you assess Narva's example?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U47	Thank you. I'll give you my personal opinion. Narva has its own specifics, the heat comes from Eesti Energia stations. I think that today there is no technology that can compete with Eesti Energia in the production of heat, precisely in terms of price. In Narva, the price of heat is the lowest in Estonia if memory does not deceive me. I can't imagine, at least right now, who would be competing with Eesti Energia there. But as far as pricing is concerned, I have already told you that we have excluded the reference price precisely because the Competition Authority will be able to monitor and control price formation in the future, including in Narva. There must not be a situation in which the producer starts randomly increasing the price of heat, which would certainly not be in the interests of the Estonian people.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U48	Thank you. Please, Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U49	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Commission waitress, This draft has been discussed at length and stakeholders have also been involved. Local authorities, heat producers, Ministry, Competition Authority, etc. have been heard in the Commission. We spoke repeatedly in the Commission about different views, what the Ministry thinks, what the Competition Authority thinks. But perhaps you will also mention what concerns Amendments 15 and 16. What is the opinion of the Competition Authority on these?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U50	The Competition Authority does not support the 15th proposal. It does not support the possibility for an existing producer to take the place of a winner. It is of the opinion that this affects competition, gives an undue advantage to an existing producer and may also reduce competition in the future, as it deprives new bidders of their appetite to come and offer their price. Yes, the Competition Authority has been conservative on these issues and does not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U51	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U52	Thank you. Good waitress! I am still asking how heat can be produced in small areas if the price of the entire investment is reflected in the price paid by the final consumer of the heat. The consumer cannot pay for it and, unfortunately, the state must put more resources in it, whether it is foreign funds or the resources of the Estonian state, it does not matter. How can we stay competitive if some of the investments are made through own resources and some of the external funds? How, for example, is depreciation calculated for external instruments, and how will it be priced?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U53	Thank you. In my opinion, for example, in those regions where heat production is currently not the most efficient and is being switched to other methods, the additional resources provided by the state for a very large amount of EUR 84 million are not high price pressure. As far as I know, when foreign funds are involved, they do not go into the price component, i.e. investments made from external funds do not go into the price. These changes will certainly not take place in these regions at the expense of the people's wallet.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U54	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U55	Thank you. That's another question I had. When I listened to you, I realized that the model of the price that is coordinated by the Competition Authority and which must be coordinated by the municipality will remain, i.e. the situation that is still in force. Let me get this straight. After all, this means that any price can be set from the monopoly, calculated accordingly, and the procedure remains the same. So what kind of competition are we talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U56	I do not agree with you because the Competition Authority is involved in price formation, monitoring and the coordination process. Therefore, it cannot actually be argued that the producer puts an arbitrary price. It's not like that. I think that, if that were the case, it would hardly be the lowest price for Estonia in Narva, for example. But we also need to understand that there cannot be a hundred heat producers. It's a specific area, there's, I don't know, a natural monopoly or something close to it. Certainly, if there were three or four producers, competition would play a role and maybe it would also affect pricing. But this market is open. Whether in Narva, Tallinn or any other municipality, an investor can always come, announce the wish to establish a new heat production company and offer competition. Let's not forget that technology is evolving. For example, these cogeneration plants, which we have seen in recent years, are also the result of a new period, which we did not see very much in Estonia 20 years ago, for example. For the most part, we got gas. But now heating is cheaper, first, and second, of course, you have to give preference to Estonian resources. Investments came, cogeneration plants were created, gas share decreased, price decreased. I wouldn't say there's no positive trend here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U57	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U58	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, Point 9: 'The Competition Board shall draw up a methodology for dividing the production costs of electricity and heat produced by the cogeneration plant. " These methodologies are abundant in the world, such as physical methodology or economic methodology. Their use depends on which type of fuel, which plant, which distribution system is involved. So when there's one methodology for everyone, someone thinks it's normal, but it's not right for everyone else. How do you comment on that? There should not be singularity here, but the situation should be explained.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U59	Thank you. This was one of the reasons why we did not support the introduction of the reference price in the Committee on Economic Affairs. In our opinion, it is not right to compare all heat producers across Estonia with one standard. The capacities are different, the structure of the networks is different, and these producers cannot be compared. What would be effective in some large cities, where there would be one unit of production price, could have a different effect under the same ideal conditions, but for other volumes in some other regions, could be different. So it certainly does not make sense to measure it with one measure. Price calculation and coordination must be based on the specific nature of the region.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U60	Thank you. Please, Kristen Michal!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U61	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In the Commission, we also discussed the importance of this law and of the security side of the whole area when discussing this draft. Would you mind commenting on that in a few words? The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has tried to find solutions to increase the confidence of businesses, which, according to different opinions, may have succeeded or been less successful, but in fact in the future, the security issues and the reduction of the Russian gas share should certainly be further addressed. How do you assess it, how do you comment on it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U62	Thank you. First of all, I think everyone agrees with me that it is in Estonia's interest to be independent of possible risks to energy consumption. Therefore, local raw materials should always be preferred, which is also cheaper. In my opinion, the cogeneration plants that we have developed are now the ideal model of Estonia. We discussed the issue of security several times in the Commission. We were talking about possible scenarios. For example, a company x comes to a competition and offers an unreasonable price on the grounds that it has a contract for the supply of gas from either Russia, Iraq or another country, and therefore the price of heat it produces is significantly lower than it would have been if local raw materials were used. If he wins the competition, then, firstly, we make ourselves dependent on this company, secondly, we have to realise that there may be problems with security of supply. The Competition Authority stated that there is a security aspect at stake here, but at the moment they have not proposed a solution to how this could be included in the law. This is certainly one of the issues that needs to come back here as soon as possible. I think it should be next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U63	Please, Thomas Tõniste!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U64	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I think we need to come back to the security aspect someday. If anyone doesn't like the gas, we'll ban the gas or anything. But it does not justify that we are making a decision today that gives a great competitive advantage to the current producers, who, some years ago, were also x producers, who may have had similar doubts as to whether they could manage and what and where. It was very strongly mentioned in the Commission that the 15th amendment goes against the Constitution. The representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs also agreed that they are not very in favour of this point and admit that there is a risk.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U65	Thank you. As I said in my report, there are several ways in which there is a constitutional barrier, starting with the fact that for newcomers this proposal 15 could mean a barrage, because old people and newcomers are not treated equally. Let's look at implementation. If this point is retained, will it be applied afterwards or as of 1 January? Here, too, there is a possibility of constitutional interference. If, for example, we implement it from 1 January, companies that have already signed contracts are not in a comparable position to those that are just starting to take part in the competition. If we apply it afterwards, there will be a problem of unequal treatment on the other hand. There are problems and there are problems. Perhaps this would be one solution, but it is my personal opinion to vote on both amendments and come up with better regulation next year. If we do this, nothing happens in the meantime.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U66	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U67	Thank you. Dear waitress, Another quote: 'The local authority of the location of the network area shall adopt the development plan for the thermal economy referred to in § 51 (2) of this Act for a period of at least 10 years by 1 July 2017 at the latest. ' Heat companies are usually in private hands, no municipal ones. Heat grids are in private hands, heat supply is mostly owned by housing associations or specific people. How can we make any development plans on this? It's not all local government. Secondly, if I even write a paper, how will I demand information about these plans from, for example, Eesti Energia, Narva Power Plants or Narva Heat Network? It's their secret, and they're not obliged to share it with us. So how do you write this development plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U68	Thank you. You gave an example of Narva, but there are a lot of small local governments in Estonia. To a large extent, this point or this possibility and obligation apply to them. Why? In many municipalities, district heating has been inefficiently applied. Why is this obligation imposed? In order for the local government to involve specialists to decide which system it is reasonable to proceed with. It should be decided whether it is reasonable to move on to a district heating system, or perhaps because of the fact that customers have been running low lately, there is no point in developing it and there is a need to develop other systems, be it local heating or some other technology. This point is rather designed to enable the local government to look at the various options that are the best way to organise its thermal economy. But the example of Narva is certainly not the most appropriate here, because in Narva, as far as I know, district heating is quite effective right now. But it is true that the local authority cannot have much influence on the production of heat.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U69	Thank you. Please, Jaanus Tamkivi!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U70	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, One topic in the debate on this issue is undoubtedly our energy security. But did the Committee on Economic Affairs also discuss this from the point of view that the use of imported fuels to meet our energy needs has a negative impact on GDP? I want to say that using local fuels will boost our economy, especially in rural areas, I mean biological fuel. In the Committee on Economic Affairs, was it pointed out that the impact of using domestic fuels is much wider than this narrow issue alone?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U71	Thank you. As I said before, we discussed this. In fact, local fuel should have a preferential status. As far as I know, the Competition Authority states in its internal rules or methodology that local raw materials must be the preferred raw materials. But what does that mean in practice? These words have no greater value. Does this mean that this fuel should be preferred regardless of price? There is no such methodology or regulation at present. In view of all the security moments you have referred to, this matter should certainly be regulated more precisely so that we use our local raw materials as much as possible. Why do we have to buy raw materials elsewhere when we have it? The use of local fuels would particularly stimulate our rural areas. Secondly, when it comes to security aspects, I think it is not quite reasonable simply to ban import resources in a dull manner, but it has certainly sounded. As far as I know, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Competition Authority have taken this seriously and propose their solutions. Since we have already come this far with this draft, it makes sense to deal with these issues in the following drafts.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U72	Please, Rein Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U73	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! To date, you and the Committee on Economic Affairs are probably aware that various options are currently operating in Estonia in the development of district heating systems. For example, let us look at the situation where heat is produced, sold and transported by a company that also owns pipes, or pipelines, for the transportation of heat. We do not know the result of the vote now, but when a new entrepreneur arrives, what is his relationship to these routes, how can he transport heat in a district heating system? Was there a debate in the Commission on how the heat produced by the new service provider reaches the homes of consumers?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U74	It's not really a problem at all, it's already solved. We'll take Tallinn. Tallinn Heating is a heating operator, but there are several heat producers, starting with the Iru power plant and ending with the Tallinn Power Plant, which are separate companies. The network is managed by Tallinn Heating, it is the owner of the network. That is why a competition is needed so that the most advantageous price provider can start using the network. It's exactly regulated, there's no problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U75	Thank you. Please, Jüri Morozov!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U76	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Amendment 16 prefers new entrants. Did you also discuss in the Commission that the priority could instead be to switch to local fuel, or should a newcomer be included in the condition that he or she would adopt local raw materials?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U77	Thank you. I'm going to be a little more specific. Amendment 15 refers to the granting of preferential status to the existing manufacturer and No 16 refers to when this amendment 15 will enter into force. These two amendments are together. We want to give current producers a prerogative, either ex post or as stated in Amendment 16, so that it will apply from 1 January 2015, that is to say to those competitions that will take place after 1 January. So there's no problem here. The current district heating law already states that priority should be given to fuel produced from local sources. Since we do not know what technologies might come in the future, we cannot specifically write down one or the other raw material, but we certainly rely on the fact that local raw materials are the best. As I said, how to define it more precisely, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Competition Authority are involved. At the moment, this wording and precise regulation are not at issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U78	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallemets!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U79	President-in-Office of the Council. Dear colleague! Basically, you already answered the question I was planning. The Environmental Investment Centre has made 60 investments in order to transfer smaller and larger boilers from oil shale or gas to biofuels in Elva, Kuressaare, Raplas, Kehtna and elsewhere. Given the economic and environmental impact, should we also involve representatives of ministries and committees in these discussions in the future so that all these aspects are really taken into account?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U80	Sure.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U81	Thank you. Please, Rein Lang!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U82	Thank you, Mr President. I am reading this 15th amendment, and I do not, indeed, understand what a healthy entrepreneur participates in a competition that cannot be won. But did the Commission also discuss how the costs of participating in the competition will be offset for those entrepreneurs who will win but who will not get the contract?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U83	Thank you. Like I said, this point must have been the most emotional. The most discussion was around this point and these amendments. There were some arguments in favour of the current producers, while other arguments were put forward by the newcomers. The Competition Authority pointed out the risk that new entrants might lose any appetite to participate in competitions because it is clear that even if they win, the old ones are always entitled to take their place. We did not discuss the cost structure in the Commission, but it is certainly an additional argument against the adoption of this raw amendment at present.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U84	Thank you. Please, Rein Randver, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U85	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I have the question of continuing my first question. I thank you for the information that the heat producer and network company have been separated in Tallinn! But I stress once again that there are many other options in Estonia, including the fact that the heat producer and seller and the network company are one and the same company. There's a lot of that. If there is a competition in a place like this and a newcomer wins, how is it possible for him to bring the heat to the consumer through the routes? Is that what you discussed in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U86	We did not discuss it in such detail, because we did not have this question. But whoever this newcomer is must have a connection to a network through which heat can be delivered to consumers. As regards whether an existing network owner could prevent this in any way, according to the current law, the network holder has no legal right to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U87	Please, Rein Lang, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U88	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, When you made this 15th amendment in the committee, did you discuss that it could be used much more widely, for example in public procurement and other competitions, so that local authorities and the state would have less trouble with a market economy based on free competition?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U89	Thank you. For the sake of clarity, this was not a proposal from the Committee on Economic Affairs, but a proposal from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, which we discussed in the Commission. But yes, a very appropriate remark, these parallels can also be considered more widely. You're right.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U90	Please, Aare Heinvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U91	Thank you. Honourable performer! It is very sympathetic for me, in itself, to favour local entrepreneurs and raw materials. But we are part of the European Union and there are four fundamental freedoms within the European Union, including the free movement of goods and services. Did the Commission talk about how the fundamental freedoms of the European Union and the preference for local fuels are linked?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U92	Thank you. In such detail and in the light of European Union law, we have not addressed this issue, because the Members of the Commission did not raise this issue. But let's see what these alternatives are. We have local raw material chips, an alternative to this today is gas. As far as I know, gas is not produced in the European Union, but comes from third countries. Perhaps that is why this issue did not come to the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U93	Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U94	Thank you. Good colleague! I read here where the marginal price is mentioned that if the conditions and factors underlying the calculation of the sales volume have changed compared to the last three financial years, the heat company or the Competition Authority will carry out a further analysis of the sales volume. It's basically the law here. I understand that sales volume cannot be the same year after year, and I understand that the change in sales volume forces the heat company to carry out this analysis every year. Is it necessary or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U95	Thank you. No further questions. Or is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U96	I thought that was the question. [[Laughing.]] That wasn't the answer, that smiling. If I understood correctly, it was said that if the sales volumes are different, either they have to be analysed each year or they have to be analysed every three years. I think so and so. But in fact, such a proposal came up with both the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Competition Authority, on the basis of a practical need. That is why this was not an option in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U97	Thank you. I'm sorry about my last line! Please, Jaan Apple Tree, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U98	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, It is clear that one of the main objectives of the draft is to ensure that heat is as cheap as possible for the consumer. Looking at the amendments, especially again in this very context of amendments 15 and 16, please assess the situation after the competitions, they will come at the beginning of next year or in five or eight years' time. How do you see it? This draft, which we are voting on at second reading today, has a very, very long-term impact, up to 24 years. How can you appreciate that? Old people, newcomers, how is this competition?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U99	Prediction is not the best thing to do. In fact, the market for heat production is not quite like in trade, that you make a new store, and that's how simple it is. There are huge investments behind the new production. This requires, firstly, the existence of a strong investor. Secondly, it is important which technology is being used. Why is that important? This is important because new technologies must be able to deliver better conditions than existing ones. I was talking about Narva and Tallinn. I can't imagine what these new technologies could be, but I'm not gonna rule out they're emerging or they're already emerging, and we just don't know about them yet. In the case of such large investments, there would certainly be some new opportunities to favour this existing producer. I think there are very high risks here. Perhaps there are not many who want to participate in this market. Participation in it requires very prudent decisions, as the amounts are high. If you do not have the right technology, it will be very difficult to enter the market, for example, simply to set up production for EUR 100 million, risking being more expensive than existing production. So it's very difficult to speculate. But I think that this law, as an alternative, offers those producers, including those who are able to reduce consumer prices, that setting a price at the Competition Authority will give them greater efficiency. At present, the rate of return is fixed so that it relates to German bonds and is around 6%. If, for example, the producer reduces the price of heat sold to the public by 10%, its profitability is 7%, if it reduces 20%, the profitability is 8%, which means very large amounts in terms of production volumes. The legislator's aim is also to motivate existing producers to find opportunities and the best technologies for efficient production, lower losses and, most importantly, the most favourable consumer price.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U100	Thank you. Please, Arto Aas, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U101	Thank you. The life cycle of this bill has really been quite long and it is difficult to process it. In the Riigikogu, the draft law was actually launched by the Ministry of Economic Affairs at the time of Juhan Parts, and the underlying idea was to set a reference price, which we are now abandoning. However, the principle that, if you bring the consumer price down, you have the right to ask for more profitability is still included in the bill. That's the interest of both sides. Amendment 15, which we talked about most in the Commission and in this Chamber today, came from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications even after Urve Palo had become Minister for Economic Affairs. Unfortunately, this has not really gone through the normal round of government coordination, which is why very many questions have remained to be resolved by the Riigikogu, and the opinions on the breach of the Constitution are here and there. Will something really happen if we do not solve this complex mess now and delete these amendments? As has been said, their effect is up to 24 years.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U102	Now, there are no more questions. Thank you very much, Deniss Borodich. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U103	Thank you. That's the right question. Does it have any practical effect today, tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, if we vote down these two amendments, No 15 and No 16? Can we not wait, for example, for the Ministry to come next year with better regulation if there is no longer a risk that this amendment will be unconstitutional? My answer is that there is no such effect and nothing happens. This system has been operating for the last four years, since this 12-year period was introduced in 2011. There is no such effect at the moment. If this change is not yet a year, six months or even two years, none of it will change. So the answer is, nothing changes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U104	Ladies and gentlemen, In particular, I appeal to the Economic Commission and I am still talking about the same things: 'The local authority of the location of the network area shall adopt the development plan for the thermal economy referred to in § 51 (2) of this Act for a period of at least 10 years by 1 July 2017 at the latest. ' I asked the representative of the Committee on Economic Affairs how this could be done. The heat company is generally a private person, a private company. Heat networks are usually owned by private companies. All the equipment in the buildings is owned either by the building management company or by a specific person. The answer was that it was not meant to apply to large municipalities, but to describe the situation in smaller municipalities. Okay, I've read the bill and I've seen it. Paragraph 51 (2) refers to a network area with an annual production volume of less than 50000 megawatts. It's about local governments, that's understandable. But tell me, please, where is this mentioned in section 13, § 421 'Development Plan for Social Economy'? This section makes no distinction between a large or a small municipality. If the law is adopted in this form, all these development plans will be drawn up. What is the point of doing them if there is nothing really dependent on local government? I would like to draw your attention to another point. The sixth paragraph of paragraph 51 'Development Plan for Economic Economy' states that a heat undertaking must pursue its activities on the basis of a development plan for the thermal economy approved and adopted by the network area. I don't know how. How do you force a private operator to comply with what has been adopted by the local council if this is contrary to the objectives of the undertaking? I want to see how this is gonna happen. If the network operator refuses to develop this development plan, how do you force him? It was said that he should, like, do it with the local government. What if he refuses? All right, he won't refuse. But there's a lot of work to do. Who's gonna pay for these expenses? There are more questions than answers. Now I come to a much more important question. Point 9 of the draft: "The Competition Board shall draw up a methodology for dividing the production costs of electricity and heat produced by the cogeneration plant. ' Here I have something to tell you. In 2003, both residents and local authorities in Narva developed a very sharp conflict with the Baltic power plant. The power plant applied for an increase in the price of heat. The Energy Market Inspectorate was then an organisation that was subsequently merged with the Competition Authority s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s We went to court with the Energy Market Inspectorate. The point was that the price can be calculated in very different ways. In order to understand and meet to prove our right, we remember going to Helsinki with my colleague, Efendiev, and some members of the council, where we met a specialist from the International Monetary Fund (IMF) in district heating and cogeneration from Finland. We went to St Petersburg, where we were accepted by academician Borovkov, who is one of the greatest authorities on the issues of oil shale combined heat and power generation. I shared this concern by meeting with the advisors of the American Embassy and received the opportunity to attend the relevant faculty at Columbia University, where I listened to a few lectures and received useful information for the court. I also went to a state in the north. What matters is what fuel is, what the plant is, what the natural conditions and the climate are. On this basis, a single method shall be chosen for a particular manufacturer. One method shall be chosen for each particular case, either this or the other. But look, it's been suggested here that the Competition Authority should draw up a methodology. First of all, why would he do anything when the world has already done it and there is a huge amount of experience? Secondly, it is said in the singular that it will produce a methodology. There can be no one methodology, it is excluded, economically it is absolute stupidity. I very much ask the Committee on Economic Affairs to take these questions seriously and to look at them again. By the way, one of the reasons why I mostly don't support the draft laws proposed by the Government of the Republic is that every bill has a mine hidden in my experience that will then just take your revenge. Take these dangerous places out of here, please, Committee on Economic Affairs! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U105	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U106	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Some issues need to be clarified here. Indeed, if you look at the Narva model, the state can well imagine how this system works in one of Estonia's circumstances, not in a small municipality. You know very well that the Baltic power plant is like a big boiler house for Narva. But you do not know that the heat that heats the city is not a direct product produced by the Baltic power plant, but an additional production. If Narva was not the consumer of this heat, then the Baltic power plant, Narva Power Plants and Eesti Energia would have to pay a fine for environmental violations. That's one point. The second point is the price taken into account, for example, by the Baltic power plant, the heat seller. This again depends on the volume of production and also on the number of consumers. The price went up especially after Kreenholm was shut down. It appears that turnover decreased, costs increased and price increased. Third point. A very good question was about the network. The Baltic power plant is currently also a monopolistic owner of the network through its subsidiary. Well, let's fantasize about coming to an entrepreneur with our good produce. But he doesn't have a network, he can't build an additional network in the city, and he has to use an existing network anyway. Do you think the current owner, from the monopoly, will give him access to this network at cost so that he can transport the heat at a new price? Of course not. Security and independence were also discussed here. It was said that our consumer must be independent. I still think that we have an independent consumption, but more needs to be said about production. Some time ago, the same Baltic power plant from Russia bought Slantsõst oil shale because it was cheap at the time. If we are already talking about the final price of heat, but the consumer will start buying fuel from outside Estonia, because it is cheap, is it right or not? Of course, every businessman does a business plan and behaves accordingly. If any fuel is cheaper, it will necessarily take advantage of this opportunity. Development plans were also discussed, the development plans of heating companies and municipalities. But the municipality needs to finance infrastructure, kindergartens, schools, etc. from the local budget. According to the law, he has to make a development plan for five years. Strategies can be long-term. Of course, every municipality wants to know whether prices are stable or not. If he has to change prices every year, I have given you an example of Kreenholm alone, but he went bankrupt and stopped his activities by other quite large companies, how can a strategy be drawn up in the municipality? The following is a very good example. Look at the situation in Narva, what the fluctuations are. 15 kilometers north, Narva-Jõesuu, is an absolutely different situation. Really, when it comes to models, there can't be one model, because situations are too different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U107	Thank you. Any more calls? No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Let us examine the amendments. Amendment 1 is from the Committee on Economic Affairs, the lead committee has proposed to take full account of, No 2 is from the Committee on Economic Affairs, the lead committee has proposed to take full account of, No 3 is from the Committee on Economic Affairs, the lead committee has proposed to take full account of, No 4 is from the Committee on Economic Affairs, the lead committee has proposed to take full account of, No 5 is from the Committee on Economic Affairs, the lead committee has proposed to take full account of, No 6 is from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, the lead committee has proposed not to take account of, No 7 is from the Committee on Economic Affairs, the lead committee has proposed to take full account of, No 8 is from the Committee on Economic Affairs, the lead committee has proposed to take full account of, No 9 is from the Committee on Economic Affairs, the lead committee has proposed to take full account of, No 10 is from the Group of the Centre Party, the lead committee has proposed to disregard, No 11 is from the Committee on Economic Affairs, the lead committee has proposed to take full account of, No 12 is from the Economic Affairs Committee, the proposal is fully taken into account, No 13 is from the Central Party, the Steering Committee's Group's proposal is essentially taken into account, No 14 is from the Committee on Economic Affairs Committee on Economic Affairs, No 14 is from the Economic Affairs, the Economic Affairs, the Economic Affairs Committee has proposed to take full account, the Economic Affairs, No 15 is fully into account, the Committee on Economic Affairs. Please, Jaanus Tamkivi!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U108	Thank you. I shall put to the vote Amendment 15, which has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs. The Governing Commission's proposal is to be fully taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 32 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 34 against and no abstentions. The amendment was therefore not supported. Amendment 16. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U109	Thank you. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U110	Let us put this proposal to a vote. Arto Aas, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U111	I ask you to vote on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U112	The 16th proposal relates to the 15th proposal. If the 15th proposal is out, I do not see the possibility of voting at all on the 16th proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U113	I interrupt the vote. At the moment, however, there is such information that we can vote on it separately. Let's vote on it. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 16. Please take a stand and vote. 1 member of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 55 against and 3 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 17 has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs; the commission has taken full account of it. The amendments have been examined. The Bureau has received a proposal from the Social Democratic Party Group to interrupt the second reading of Bill No 609. We must vote on this proposal. Honourable Riigikogu, silence in the hall, please! I shall put to the vote the second reading of draft proposal No 609 from the Social Democratic Party Group to be suspended. Please take a stand and vote. 36 members of the Riigikogu with 25 votes against and 3 abstentions. The proposal was supported. Second reading aborted. The deadline for tabling amendments shall be 10 days.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U114	Let us take the next item on the agenda. The first reading of the draft law amending the Law on Medicinal Products initiated by the Social Affairs Committee begins. I would like a presentation from Aare Heinvee, member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U115	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will introduce you to the draft law amending the medicine law, which was initiated by the Social Affairs Committee on 19 November 2014 and prepared by the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. By decision of the General Assembly of the Supreme Court of 9 December 2013, § 421 (1) (3) of the Pharmaceutical Act was declared unconstitutional and invalid, which laid down restrictions on the establishment of new pharmacies and on the expansion of existing pharmacies or their location in cities. The entry into force of the Decision was postponed for six months, as it was not excluded that the closure of land pharmacies would increase if the restrictions on establishment were repealed without other measures. When the problem of the pharmacy market is discussed in a simplified way, two constitutional principles are in competition: freedom of business and the protection of human health. The pharmaceutical market is highly regulated and a partial market lock has emerged to protect market participants. There is no need to prevent entrepreneurship at a place where it operates in accordance with market rules, but the state cannot allow certain areas to lose their services due to market failure. The Act amending the Pharmaceutical Act and the Health Services Organisation Act, adopted on 21 May 2014, laid down rules for pharmacists and pharmacists, regulating the establishment and organisation of the pharmacy bus, the payment of basic allowance for pharmacists to work in the countryside and the facilitation of the opening of the pharmacy in small islands. The licence of a general pharmacy may no longer be owned by wholesale pharmaceutical companies or by companies associated with them through their dominant influence, in other words, the vertical integration of wholesale and retailers of medicinal products was banned. From now on, the establishment of branch pharmacies will only be allowed in rural areas and smaller cities with fewer than 4 000 inhabitants. General pharmacies will also be given the opportunity to arrange for the delivery of medicinal products at the request of patients. Since these measures are not sufficient to ensure access to the pharmacy service at least at the current level in rural areas, a temporary regulation was introduced with a time limit of one year for the authorisation of the general pharmacy in a high demand area. In autumn 2014, the Ministry of Social Affairs completed an analysis of the geographical location of pharmacies and the need for pharmacies. The Social Affairs Committee also commissioned an analysis of the University of Tartu's Centre for Applied Social Sciences about the impact of state support measures on the survival of rural pharmacies and pharmacy services. Now I am talking more specifically about the bill. The purpose of the draft law amending the Pharmaceutical Act is to ensure the availability of pharmacy services in rural areas where there is no general pharmacy or its structural unit and the nearest location of the pharmacy is far from the local population. According to the draft, in a region with less demand, a pharmacy service is required to be provided by persons authorised to provide general pharmacy services who have established at least 10 pharmacies in the major cities of Estonia and whose activities are most profitable. In order to ensure better availability of the pharmacy service, the Supreme Court has referred to its decision as well as the Chancellor of Justice. As the establishment of a general pharmacy is more burdensome for the company than the establishment of a structural unit, given the expected low demand for medicinal products, it is more justified to impose the obligation to establish a structural unit (branch pharmacy or pharmacy bus). Paragraph 1 (1) of the draft law is supplemented by § 311. In accordance with paragraph 1 of this section, the claimant of the obligation to set up the structural unit of the General Pharmacies is the Medicines Agency. This is a consideration decision taken by the Agency in accordance with paragraph 3, taking into account the number of general pharmacy service providers authorised to provide at least 10 services in the major cities of Estonia and based on the comparative turnover of these service providers, the number of general pharmacies and the number of structural units already established. According to § 311 (2) of the Pharmaceutical Act, the need for the establishment of a structural unit of a general pharmacy is decided by the local government. The recommendation on good geographical availability of medicinal products has been 15 to 30 minutes of driving or a distance of 30 kilometres. The latter is a more easily identifiable criterion and therefore preferred to be used in law. It has also been taken into account that the need for the nearest place of operation of the general pharmacy is of sufficient weight. The nearest pharmacy must be more than 30 kilometres for at least 2 000 inhabitants, and it cannot be excluded that several local authorities will submit a joint proposal. According to Geomedia's 2013 report "Supporting the availability of land pharmacy services by local governments', a pharmacy meeting the requirements of the main pharmacy cannot be considered sustainable, with fewer than 2500 people in the service area. Thus, an appropriate pharmacy in the structural unit, serving at least 2 000 inhabitants, may prove to be a non-losing place of business if it is open for a sufficient period of time and offers an adequate range of medicines. Paragraph 311 (5) of the Pharmaceutical Act specifies that undertakings associated with a dominant influence within the meaning of the Competition Act shall be regarded as one of the persons authorised by the General Pharmacy within the meaning of paragraph 3 (1). In this way, the "reformification" motivation of companies will be avoided. Paragraph 311 (6) of the Pharmaceutical Act sets time frames for the establishment of a new structural unit within 180 days. Paragraph 311 (7) of the Pharmaceutical Act specifies the period during which the company is obliged to ensure the operation of the established structural unit. The obligation to act shall remain in force until the conditions referred to in paragraph 2 have ceased to exist (e.g. another nearer pharmacy is established or the number of residents in the region is reduced) or for up to five years. Paragraph 311 (8) of the Pharmaceutical Act empowers the Minister responsible for the sector to introduce an implementing regulation. Paragraph 1 (2) of the draft law complements the obligations of the licence holder to provide pharmacy services to establish the structure of the general pharmacy if the obligation referred to in § 311 (1) is met. The entry into force of the draft law does not entail any additional costs for the state or local authorities. Pharmacy service providers with 10 or more licences in cities or cities with more than 20000 inhabitants may incur additional costs in the future for the establishment and maintenance of a structural unit. The Act enters into force on 1 June 2015. Now I am talking about the procedural aspect. The Commission discussed the draft at two meetings: 8 and 15 December. On 8 December the representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Agency were invited to the meeting, on 15 December the government's position was discussed, the government supported the draft. Four decisions were taken: at the meeting on 8 December, it was decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 16 December, to propose that the first reading be closed, to propose that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 14 a.m. on 2 January 2015 and to appoint Aare Heinvee, member of the Social Affairs Committee as rapporteur. The decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U116	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U117	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I have two brief questions to clarify. First, it's 30 kilometers. Do we measure it from the municipal border where the pharmacy is located or from the pharmacy itself? Question two. If the map lists pharmacies and circles of 30 kilometres drawn on it, it should be clear how large the territory may be to request the opening of a new pharmacy. Have you discussed this in the committee, or do you suddenly know how many municipalities in Estonia have the right to apply for a pharmacy on their territory after the adoption of this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U118	Thank you. This issue was very seriously on the agenda in the Commission. We agreed that, before the second reading, we would specify the same provisions governing territorial and distance, so that it would be clear what this 30 kilometres would mean. In terms of implementation, it is delegated to a government that must issue a regulation where it should be fixed, but very likely that it could also be in law. That is definitely what we are dealing with and we will specify that. With regard to the second question of how many municipalities or regions are there that can immediately start implementing this law, they are probably not there at the moment. This bill is clearly of a preventive nature. If we look at land pharmacies or pharmacies in low demand areas, it is estimated that there may be 150, of which 50 are sustainable, 50 are at risk and 50 are actually unsustainable. If such a situation arises that such a pharmacy is to be closed, then there is also the possibility of applying the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U119	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U120	Thank you. Good waitress! According to the draft, the Agency obliges the person authorised to provide general pharmacy services to establish a structural unit of the general pharmacy. But I don't understand the bill what happens if that person doesn't fulfil that obligation and just doesn't open this unit.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U121	Thank you. This is a separate obligation that needs to be fulfilled for the purposes of the licence. If the owner of a pharmacy or of a general pharmacy, or of whatever, does not comply with this obligation, there is a very high risk of losing the licence.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U122	Kalmer Lain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U123	Thank you, President of the sitting. Thank you, waitress. Do you have any idea what the umbrella organisations, the pharmacists' association, the Chamber of pharmacists, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry think about this bill? At 11 o'clock there was a seal in front of the Riigikogu and 2,500 signatures against this bill were brought here. What's their point of view?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U124	Thank you. At least a year in the Committee on Social Affairs has been particularly focused on pharmacy issues, but this has been done in the past. We have had a good involvement of representatives of many interest groups, and we will certainly meet them before the second reading. When it comes to the interests of the House of pharmacists or of the representatives of pharmacists, I can express the Commission's position. Perhaps the biggest problem that ever existed in our pharmacy market was vertical integration. If we subtract this market from the stages of wholesalers, retailers and pharmacists, then it can be said that the most effective integration under law has been eliminated, i.e. wholesalers cannot be the owners of retail chains. If you go on from here, you might ask if pharmacists could be the sole owners of pharmacies. I also peeked through the window at this demonstration, and because of the lack of time, I didn't get any closer, but I saw a poster in there with a note saying that the pharmacists were free or independent or something. As far as I know, no legal provision prevents pharmacists and pharmacists from being free and independent, to sum up. They've been employees of retail and wholesale chains. The pharmacies are around 480 in Estonia and about 10% of them may be owned by pharmacists. There is no prohibition that existing pharmacists, all of whom have been educated at the University of Tartu, agree that they will do so on their own. They don't have to go under retail or other chains. I know that this problem was very serious 10 to 15 years ago when the pharmacy network developed. There were different problems then, and perhaps not so thorough to deal with these problems has created the situation that is now. I will also answer this question as to what the views of the stakeholders are. The Social Affairs Committee held an earlier session on 17 November. a, a proposal to the Ministry of Social Affairs to draft a bill providing for the creation of a Chamber of pharmacists as a body governed by public law. Once again, you can look and decide what happens next, whether this House will assume the rights and obligations to regulate the market itself, as the notaries do today, for example. There was another task there. I noted that the status of health care professional has also been granted to pharmacists, but it has not yet been clearly stated that healthcare and pharmacists should be linked.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U125	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U126	Thank you. I will try again to ask two brief questions within one minute. First of all, are there any requirements for the pharmacies that are covered by the law? Do they have to have a separate building or a separate room, or is it enough to have a half-meter counter somewhere in the store that is proudly called a pharmacy? That's one thing. Secondly, if the pharmacy chain, which has to deal with this, because it has been given this responsibility, is it going to be negative, is it supposed to be who will compensate it for these costs? Again, strangely enough, there are two questions side by side. It's a private business, and if you ask him for anything, you're gonna have to pay for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U127	Thank you. Of course, the pharmacy has very clear requirements: in which premises the pharmacy must operate, how many square meters and how many separate rooms must be available. It all exists at the level of laws and regulations and is really very highly regulated. There is no requirement for the pharmacy to be in a separate house. The important thing is that there is a proper room. But the second question is more complicated. The starting point for the drafting of this draft was that the system could now be budget-neutral, although studies have found that it might be cheaper to support certain activities from the state budget. But this bill requires pharmacies to regulate their own activities so that large retailers do not become dominant again. You may have ten general pharmacies without special duties, and then you can have a certain additional obligation. According to some studies, the total profit of the major general pharmacies operating in cities in 2013 was slightly above EUR 3 million and the establishment of new pharmacies requires a similar amount of money. There may be a problem here that how sustainable it is to propose that a new pharmacy be opened on a chain. But like I said, this bill is preventive. I believe that certain things regulate themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U128	Kalmer Lain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U129	Thank you. On the basis of the current draft law, the pharmacy market would become free. What is Europe's experience in this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U130	Thank you. Europe has experience from wall to wall. In some individual countries, there may be four such countries, the market is almost unrestricted. Most countries have some restrictions. However, once again, it does not have to regulate entrepreneurship, whether it is sacred or as necessary as any, which works in itself. Currently, most of Estonia has a pharmacy network and the pharmacy service is provided. It would clearly be inappropriate for a country to intervene in this. However, the second question is important. Looking at these low demand regions, rural pharmacies, and the geographical and demographic constraints that have now been lifted, are they the right ones? The latest study presented to the Social Affairs Committee by the social scientists of the University of Tartu revealed that all geographical restrictions are marginal in addition to the fact that people simply do not have money to buy grass. Perhaps we are even overly focused on these geographical requirements. We could put that money on the pharmacy network, bet on a person's health in a different way.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U131	Good waitress, thank you very much for your presentation and your answers. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Mikhail Stalnukhini, representative of the Estonian Central Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair of Speech!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U132	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, what you cannot hear in this Chamber! It's just this bill. Why talk only about pharmacies? I remember how about ten years ago the country suddenly announced that it would close down the archives in Narva. Imagine that at the time, 65,000 people lived in Narva, even more, in the archives they had the documents they needed, but nothing, the archive was transferred to Rakvere. We've just been informed. They said if we wanted to pay for it out of our pockets, please, the archive can stay, but he can't get any more public money. Nobody created an opportunity for the local government to request that there are no archives-related offices within a 30 km radius and we ask you to keep the archives. It might even be funnier. For example, we were being taken away from the Civil Status Office under the same conditions. It was exactly the same terms, but nobody cared. The money's being saved. They said that young people would register in Jõhvi, 45 kilometers away. We started paying for it out of our pockets. That's a peculiarity. But here, absolutely new rules of the game are being created. The question arises as to why it is restricted to pharmacies only. You see, in some settlements and in some villages there are not many things, for example, there are no ATMs. We adopt a law, we associate it with licenses in some way, and we make an obligation for banks operating in Estonia to have blood out of their nose, but there should be an ATM in this area and that is it. Some villages don't have a store, a limp goes there a couple times a week. The chains are there, let Selver, Maxima or any other chain pay for it! Why do we have to think about developing this region? Let the businessman do it. Very interesting approach, extremely interesting. What about the free market economy? That's where the question comes from. Look, if the pharmacy chain is obliged to open a pharmacy somewhere as described in this law, it is likely that it will not already have a pharmacy there because it is not useful to keep it there. It would work at a loss. It's not clear who's going to make up for that loss. But it ends with being compensated by a city dweller. Why would a pharmacy chain give away its profits? Is this some kind of joke? The pharmacy is going to pay for some sort of social task. This will lead to price increases. Has this been discussed in the Commission? Has it been said how such a scheme is even in line with our economic principles? Not that I really like them, but they exist: free trade, liberal economy, etc. So, of course, it's nice that you can hear things like this, but right now I can't imagine how it's going to happen. One more thing. For example, I am not sure that we need to adopt such preventive laws. Understandably, if action is to be taken to increase the population, preventive measures are needed. But taking preventive measures in business, and others that businessmen have to pay for, is a little premature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U133	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The commission has proposed that the first reading be closed. I shall set the deadline for the submission of draft 782 amendments at 14 a.m. on 2 January 2015. The first reading is closed and the seventh item on the agenda is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U134	Let's move on to item eight. The first reading of the draft law amending the State Property Act, the Defence Forces Service Act, the Land Register Act and the External Action Service Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I would like to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister of Finance Maris Lauri!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U135	Hi! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The purpose of this amendment is to simplify the governance of state assets and to clarify its principles. In particular, the implementation of the current State Assets Act has revealed a number of bottlenecks that will be removed by the amendment. These are the following. Firstly, the draft specifies the procedures for the disposal and use of immovable property in decision-making procedures. In particular, it is necessary to determine in a wider circle what property is being disposed of or used for. In addition to public authorities, local authorities, legal entities governed by public law, state foundations and non-profit organisations will be involved in the circle of interested parties. The innovation is also that the Ministry of the Interior is going to analyse applications from the perspective of regional policy and spatial planning. This avoids the possibility that the State will dispose of assets that will be needed at a later stage and then have to be bought back. Secondly, the transfer of assets from one authority to another will be facilitated, reducing the government's workload and reducing coordination with the various authorities. For example, there is no need for a government decision to transfer property to Riigi Kinnisvara AS for the temporary use of premises or for the use of small premises. The manager of the state property decides to rent the dwelling and to conclude small-scale contracts. The above procedures need not be coordinated with the Ministry of Finance. At the same time, in other procedures where the coordination of the Ministry of Finance is required, coordination will take place in the national real estate register. Thirdly, the State's participation in state-owned companies and foundations has been enhanced. In order to manage the general government cash flow and debt more effectively, the law introduces the principle that a national foundation may not grant loans, guarantee obligations of third parties, enter into savings contracts with credit or financial institutions, or place its funds in financial assets, including securities. The foregoing shall not apply if this right is derived from the statutes of the Foundation. Fourthly, a new exception has been introduced to the law that property located abroad is subject to the State Property Act, taking into account the regulations in force in the country of establishment. This concerns the real estate sector in particular. The State Assets Act does not apply if participation is a result of an act of the European Union or of an external agreement. Fifthly, for the development of the business environment, the arrangements for the disposal of immovable property in decision-making procedures and the burdening of buildings are specified. The main procedural rules, principles and bases for the evaluation of applications shall be laid down. Sixthly, the Defence Forces Service Act includes the term "employer's dwelling" in order to distinguish the personal right of use of an active military officer from the right to accommodation by the employer during the performance of their duties. Seventhly, the draft amends the Land Book Act. In particular, in the future the consolidation of land units will be made mandatory for the state and the local government. Moreover, the External Action Service Act provides for a more general mandate for the establishment of a compensation procedure for living expenses. In conclusion, by adopting the law, the administration of state assets will become clearer, a large part of the proceedings will take place in the national property register and the administrative burden will decrease in the long term. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U136	Minister, there are questions for you. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U137	Thank you. Madam Minister! I read here: 'The property of a state under the control of a security authority is not subject to this Act... ' A long sequence of paragraphs, points and paragraphs is to be followed. Could you give an example of what state property is being spoken of in this context? Just name specific items or state assets to which these items do not apply.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U138	Can you give me a five? I don't know how to look.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U139	Please hand the microphone back to Mikhail Stalnukhin so he can clarify his question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U140	Thank you. How do I give you five? It says 'public property under the control of a security authority'. What are the assets under the authority of a security authority? It's still the same buildings, maybe it's a car park, maybe some apartments or something. This is stated in section 3 of the first page of the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U141	I'm afraid it's gonna take me a long time to find an answer. If it is okay, this reply will be sent to you in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U142	A procedural question, Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U143	Thank you! Abort me if it's not a procedural question. When we ask questions here, we take into account that the rapporteur is prepared to ask random questions about one or the other draft. I quoted a specific point earlier. Can this be considered to be a violation of the procedure if no answer is received, or can it not be taken as such?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U144	Thank you, good questioner! The President will certainly not interfere with the content of the answers. But let's keep going. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U145	Thank you. Madam Minister! The state also has embassy buildings, for example, somewhere else, not property located in Estonia. How does the state even look at the use of this property? Do we have mechanisms to show that this asset has been used as required by our law?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U146	The state assets acquired by the Estonian state abroad, such as embassy buildings, are definitely in the register and are monitored in this sense. But if the Estonian state decides, for example, to rent its own premises or choose to buy some real estate abroad, then it is natural that it follows local laws when carrying out these procedures. We cannot make our own laws in this situation, but we will certainly be guided by our own agreements: the lease contracts, also the so-called ownership agreements abroad. Management follows our rules: beneficentness, efficiency, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U147	Mikhail Stalnukhin, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U148	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! Every year we listen to a presentation on the preservation of state assets in this hall and almost every week we also come in contact with the National Audit Office, whose greatest duty is to ensure that state assets are in order, preserved, etc. The National Audit Office is a constitutional institution that must definitely be involved in processes that regulate the use of state assets or provide new opportunities for doing so. Did the National Audit Office participate in the preparation of this draft, has it given its opinion on it, and did it participate in these discussions in the committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U149	I believe the National Audit Office is familiar with this bill. I do not find any indication here that he had any comments on the draft. The Auditor General participates in meetings of the Government and has knowledge of this bill. I think that if the National Audit Office had any questions, they would certainly have been submitted.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U150	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I ask for a presentation of the Chair of the Riigikogu, President of the Economic Commission, Arto Asa!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U151	Honourable Riigikogu! The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the draft submitted at its meeting on 11 December. Minister of Finance Maris Lauri and Kaie Karniol and Jane Ristisaar, officials of the Ministry of Finance, were invited to the meeting of the Commission. The content and purpose of the draft act was already presented by the previous speaker. I will mention the issues that were discussed in the Commission at first reading. First of all, there was the general question of what is the state's overview of its assets at all. The answer was that the Ministry of Finance has prepared a comprehensive summary report on state property, which has already been submitted to the Riigikogu. This will be done every year. The next report should be submitted to the Riigikogu in March 2015. It was asked to specify in which cases the transfer of state assets does not require, for example, the consent of the Government of the Republic. There are certain specific limits in the draft, but the general logic is that everything that goes on auction sales does not have to go through a government meeting. There are certain rules in the decision-making process. There was an interest in how state-owned assets were included in the land register. The current situation is that all state assets have not yet been transferred there, even in local governments. But one of the objectives of this draft is to change this practice, including the introduction of land under road in the land register. These changes have been implemented by local authorities until 2017 and by ministries, for example, for land under road until 2019. They then asked what costs might be incurred if all the property had to be entered in the land register. The answer was that there was certainly a certain workload in the real estate department of the courts as well as in local governments and public authorities, but it did not involve costs of state fees, as first-stopping is free of charge, nor does it involve notary fees, since the registrations can be made through the land portal. The largest municipality in Tallinn has already reached quite a distance with the consolidation of the land, 99% of Tallinn's property is in the land register, according to the information provided to us. Tartu has 52% in the land register and 85% in Pärnu, so in some municipalities the pace has to be accelerated. This was a brief summary of the debate. Procedural decisions were also taken. Firstly, it was decided to propose the termination of the first reading and, secondly, it was proposed to set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 12 noon on 5 January 2015. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U152	Thank you. Good waitress, one question for you. Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U153	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! Did the Commission have any discussion that there might be a need to allocate additional resources from the state budget for the maintenance and administration of these properties?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U154	Thank you. I hope I understand your question correctly. We didn't discuss that. The only thing we were talking about was that the properties had to be entered correctly in the land register and that they allegedly did not incur any financial costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U155	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Mikhail Stalnukhini, representative of the Estonian Central Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair of Speech!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U156	Mr President! I will take this opportunity to speak on behalf of the group in order to apologise. My procedural question was not correct, I understood it and I apologize. I just remembered how in this Chamber about 15 years ago, when Thomas Savi sat over Jüri and Mr Ilves, the foreign minister at the time, presented the question of whether it was possible to make it clear to the rapporteur that the questions were being asked in order to receive answers, that he did not recommend listening to what was happening in the head of the respondent. Thomas smiled and said that Tõnu would probably understand that Thomas could ask for it, but if a person did not understand the question, he would not be able to answer. I just wanted to say that much. This bill, however, sounds strange. This is not my area, and I will be honest with you that I briefly looked at what the councillors did. But when I listened to the report, I realized that some real estate objects, for example, are getting out of control. The person who wants this state property must agree with the owner of the property and with the State Real Estate, but who can check all these notes in the register. That's how it goes quietly. The other part of the matter is that I wonder why the National Audit Office has not been involved in the discussion of this bill. That's weird. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U157	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 797. I will set the deadline of 5 January 2015 at 12 noon for the submission of 797 amendments. The first reading is closed and the eighth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U158	Let's move on to item nine. The first reading of the Bill 742 on Amendment to the Citizenship Act initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group begins. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu to Mikhail Stalnukhin, member of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U159	Mr President! I know I won't be able to finish the report in the remaining seven minutes. Therefore, I simply report that my aim is to tell you about the content of this law from this remote point of view, then to give an introductory and brief account of the situation with the application for citizenship and naturalisation in the first republic in the 1920s and 1930s. I would like to further talk about how the instrument of citizenship was used, for example, by the Congress of Estonia, which then became largely the Fatherland Union, and also about why we have laws in the area of citizenship, why they have become such and what were the main reasons that we have so many people with grey passports. I want to talk about how the Party Res Publica, in its own time, rejected the electorate's decision by its council, which had been confirmed by Res Publica's board, and which actually meant the nullity option. I want to talk about how the great politicians of the Social Democratic Party have made similar offers in recent years. By doing so, I would like to prove that what is currently offered by the Estonian Centre Party is not a new thing. It has been dealt with by the predecessor of the Fatherland Union, the Socats and also Res Publica. Now I'm going to the report. § 6 of the Citizenship Act lays down the conditions for obtaining Estonian citizenship. There are ten of them, and some of them are perfectly understandable. An applicant, an alien, must be at least 15 years old, must hold a long-term resident's residence permit or permanent right of residence, etc. These are pretty common stuff. Among them is point 3: '... be able to speak Estonian in accordance with the requirements laid down in § 8 of this Act' and Section 4: '... Know the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and the Citizenship Act in accordance with the requirements laid down in § 9 of this Act'. It is self-evident that the applicant must be loyal to the Estonian state and take an oath: 'In applying for Estonian citizenship, I pledge to be loyal to the constitutional order of Estonia. ' Essentially, our proposal is to include subsection 6 (2) in the following formula: 'A foreigner who was born in Estonia before 20.08.1991 or moved to Estonia is exempt from the requirements of subsection 1 (3) and (4) of this section. ' Looking at how this sphere has been regulated in the past, I will not be particularly serious about the laws of the 1920s. For example, I remember a law that I saw in some publication at the University of Tartu. There was such a formulation that the citizen of the Republic of Estonia is a resident of a local government. That provision was also included in the law. Speaking of historical perspective, we must say that we are more or less always looking at the Citizenship Act, which dates back to 1938. That's very interesting. Paragraph 6 of Section 2 'Basics and Order of Nationalization' refers to three conditions that a foreigner must meet, who wishes to enter Estonian citizenship in the naturalization procedure. The third point there is that you must know the Estonian language. This is followed by § 7, which says that the requirements laid down in § 6 (2) and (3) (I am now talking about point 3) regarding the time of residence in Estonia and the knowledge of the Estonian language may be omitted. Three categories of people have been identified for whom this point does not apply. First, of course, persons of Estonian origin, second, persons who have special services for the benefit of the Republic of Estonia in the state, national defence or social area, and third, stateless persons who have resided permanently in Estonia until the date of filing their application for Estonian citizenship. This means that what our group is offering now is exactly the same , except that, for example, we have changed the time limit for some conditions, which was in the Citizenship Act of the Republic of Estonia in 1938. This experience of the Citizenship Act 1938 was used in its work by the Congress of Estonia in the late 1980s and early 1990s. I believe everyone in this hall has heard of blue and green cards. Today, of course, we are talking about green cards because they were given to non-citizens. People had to choose and, in order to increase the number of voters, those who were already Estonian citizens, blue cards, and those who wished to participate in the elections but were not citizens of the Republic of Estonia, were offered green cards. It was also said that taking such a card means obtaining citizenship in a simplified form after the Republic of Estonia has been restored. I have to say right now that absolutely no exact number is known, but...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U160	Good waitress, I'm interrupting you for a minute. I'm just saying, you have 11 minutes and 16 seconds to finish your call.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U161	I wouldn't want to ruin my colleagues' lives. Mr President, I appeal to you to see if we can find a way and I will proceed tomorrow.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U162	As President, I have to follow our practice and the Home and Working Procedures Act, which says that when the end of the sitting comes, but the procedure is halfway through, the procedure must be completed. At the moment, your report is halfway through, which needs to be completed today, and tomorrow we can then go to the questions. Unfortunately, it is not possible that there will be half a report today and half a report tomorrow.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U163	Okay, then I'm gonna put on a telegram like they say, and I'm gonna try and finish my speech in two minutes. When the Republic of Estonia began its activities in 1991, the rules began to tighten up for some reason. There were reasons for that. I think I'll get a chance to talk more about them tomorrow. There were political reasons that I will talk about tomorrow when colleagues ask questions about this. There was also the political exploitation of citizenship for naturalisation. I have a newspaper with me that I want to show you. It's called Vozmi Vlast or Take Power. It's in Russian and it was released by Res Publica. For example, in order to succeed in the local elections in 2002, this newspaper printed the decision of Res Publica's board, supplemented by Mr Taagepera. At the time, Res Publica offered people who lived in Estonia at least in August 1991, who have a residence permit and who are not punishable by criminal law, the opportunity to apply for citizenship and receive it without taking a language examination. So many people have used these things, but I don't want to keep you in this hall too long. To conclude, this is a very good law, colleagues, which the Centre Party offers you. Given that similar proposals have been made by the Pro Patria Union, the Social Democrats and Res Publica, and that the Act of 1938 was similar, we should fully support this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-16_U164	Good waitress, thank you very much. Good fellows, since it's past one o'clock, today's session is over. I wish you the strength of our work! We'll pick it up tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 1.05 p.m.
