ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-13_U1	Good fellows, honourable Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the fourth Thursday session of the VII plenary session. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or inquiries! Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-13_U2	Good manager! Honourable Riigikogu! The Social Democratic Party Group submits a draft of the Riigikogu decision 'Proposal for the Government of the Republic' to the proceedings. I think that what is happening on the high-speed credit market has caused a great deal of concern to all members of the Riigikogu, and especially to the four Riigikogu committees: the Committee on Finance, Economics, Legal and Social Affairs. It's pretty much clear which way these things are going. In the Riigikogu, it is relatively easy to initiate drafts that make these rules more specific or stricter, but there is one topic that the Riigikogu itself cannot handle in any way. This is a measure to improve supervision, the content of which would be the transfer of supervision to the Financial Supervision Authority. We cannot cope with this primarily because the Financial Supervision Authority is an institution between Eesti Pank and the Government of the Republic and, secondly, because it is specific because market participants themselves finance its activities. Therefore, our proposal is that the Government of the Republic submit a draft to the Riigikogu on the basis of which the supervision of the rapid credit market would be transferred from the Consumer Protection Board to the Financial Supervision Authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-13_U3	There's no more calls. I have adopted one draft on behalf of the management board of the Riigikogu, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on its further proceedings. Let's move on to the messages. Dear colleagues, today, after the end of the plenary session, the creation of the Haapsalu Railway Support Group will take place in this Chamber. Lauri Luik is a member of the Riigikogu. Good colleagues, we're conducting a presence check. 85 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 16.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-13_U4	Now, let's get to today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of the draft law 482 on the amendment of the railway law initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? There is no wish to negotiate, so we can go to the preparation of the final vote. [[In the diner.]] I'm sorry, did I hear wrong and have a negotiation request? No, it's not. It's just that there's so much noise in the hall that you can't hear it, whether it is or not. I beg you to keep your voice down! We can go to the final vote. Dear colleagues, I will put draft 482 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 71 members of the Riigikogu were in favour, 1 against and 2 abstentions were in favour. Draft Law 482 on the amendment of railway law initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws has been adopted as a law. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-13_U5	We will move on to the second item on the agenda, which is the second reading of the Act on replying to a letter of formal notice and a request for clarification initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the draft law amending the Law on the Home and Working Procedures of the Riigikogu 518. Rait Maruste, Chairman of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu, please! [[In the diner.]] Dear colleagues, I ask you to keep your voice down in the hall, respect the waitress! Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-13_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Draft Act amending the Act replying to the memorandum and request for clarification and the Law amending the Law on the Home and Working Procedures of the Riigikogu... [[In the diner.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-13_U7	Good waitress, I'm so sorry! Both in your hall and at the moment, first and foremost, I am very much interrupting the sitting of the Riigikogu. I ask both you and myself to be quiet so that the Riigikogu can move forward with its work!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-13_U8	The second reading of the draft proposal 518 was discussed twice in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs: for the first time on 21 January this year and for the second time on 27 January. The first discussion included Kristen Kanarik, Adviser to the Public Law Service of the Ministry of Justice, Tõnis Roots, Legal Adviser to the Ministry of the Interior, and Liia Hänni, Programme Manager of the e-Governance Academy, plus members of the Commission. At the first session, we discussed amendments with a deadline of 10 January. The amendments came from the Group of the Social Democratic Party and the Government of the Republic also presented its recommendations and proposals. In addition, the NPO Radical Democrats issued an opinion on the draft. As the first point of discussion, we were talking about the wording of the draft, which was not directly related to this so-called petition right, but since it was the text of the Act replying to the letter of formal notice and the request for clarification, the Social Democrats raised the question whether it is really right to replace the existing formula by 'aggressive behaviour' with a different text. The draft proposed that a letter of formal notice or a proposal could be omitted if the author acted against good manners or manifestly abused the right to be heard. This led us to a debate and debate, which led us to believe that the current wording 'aggressive behaviour may endanger ourselves or other persons' is more like a form of punitive expression and could introduce a slightly softer formulation, or 'behaving contrary to good manners or obviously abusing their right to be heard'. This wording is already used in Estonian law. The category of good manners is known in civil law and why it should not be used in public law. However, the concept of 'abuse of their rights of appeal' is enshrined in Article 35 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, and this act is part of the Estonian legal order. Since we didn't quite agree, there was a vote. We considered that the proposed new text would still be better. There were 7 votes in favour, 2 against, 1 abstention. The second issue raised by the Social Democrats was already more substantive, directly linked to the right to petition than to this. The bill provided for a grant signature of 1000. The Social Democrats suggested that it would be sufficient for 500 signatures of support to be collected for this collective appeal. During the debate it was recalled that this 1000 signatures is an estimate of the size of which we also had a dispute about the first reading. Mart Nutt referred to it as a conventional size, and we found it to be an optimal number. Liia Hänni, who was also present, felt that there was no significant difference in the electronic environment between collecting 500 or 1000 signatures, rather it was a question of the social impact of signatures. If this figure is higher, it may give the Riigikogu stronger social pressure. Since we did not agree, we also put this proposal to the vote. There were 7 members of the Commission with 2 votes against and 1 abstention. We found that the required number of supporting signatures could still be 1000. If necessary, we can change it later. The third proposal of the Social Democrats was that the committee concerned should invite the contact person or his representative to the meeting of the committee indicated on the referral. The draft envisaged that this could be done if necessary. We considered that it would be appropriate to invite the proposer to the hearing. It is one of the fundamental principles of the rule of law that everyone has the right to be heard. The Commission took this proposal into account unanimously. We continued our debate on 27 January when we discussed mainly the proposals and recommendations of the Government of the Republic, which were largely editorial-stylistic. Several of them were taken into account and presented by the Commission in its proposals. I also note that on 27 January, Mr Hänni had been invited to take place in Hille Hinsberg, an expert in the governing and civil society programme of the Centre for Political Studies in Praxis. Mrs Hinsberg raised the question of whether it would be more appropriate to look at this right to petition, the procedure for collective redress a little more widely and not just to take into account the aspect of initiating draft laws. Due to the fact that the Riigikogu also discusses other important issues of state life, the object of a collective appeal could be looked at a little more widely and provided for the possibility to make proposals on other matters of state life. The Commission considered this to be an appropriate point of view and this point of view needs to be reflected in the draft. The Commission decided to initiate a proposal to this effect. This is in the table under Amendment 1. The second topic in this second debate was the proposal to clarify the number of persons or subjects entitled to submit a petition. We found it appropriate to add to the list a circle of persons under the right of petition of the European Union, including citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Community and the Swiss Confederation living in Estonia who have a permanent right of residence here, and foreigners living in Estonia who have a long-term resident's residence permit or permanent right of residence. The Commission supported this clarification. This is proposal No 5 in the table of our amendments. Third, it was also the granting of the right of collective redress to non-profit organisations. This proposal came from the Home Office. After the debate, we considered that this was not entirely in line with the objectives of the draft, as non-profit organisations may also include other organisations and associations alongside individuals. The question also arises: if the management of a non-profit organisation has expressed its support, whether or not it extends to all members of a non-profit organisation. The control of the whole thing gets more complicated and confusing. That is why we decided to exclude this proposal, but only natural persons can submit collective redress. There was also a question of whether the term 'grant application' should be used in this draft instead of'support signature'. This terminological issue was due to the regulation and form of the EU's right to petition. However, we found it more appropriate and more clearly verifiable when we talk about signature in the draft. It's also common in our business and using our ID card. So it's easier to stick to the concept of "support signature" so as not to confuse things. It was then said that the current text is confusingly expressed, which will happen within 30 calendar days. The text says that a decision is taken within 30 calendar days, but is there a decision on the content of the appeal? We found that this unclear paragraph could be clarified, and we propose that within 30 days a procedural decision must be made to proceed with the referral. So within 30 days, it will be decided whether to accept the appeal or reject it. This clarification was accepted and the Commission decided to propose an amendment under table 6 of the amendments. There was also a editorial clarification on how to formalise a request, which conditions it should meet. This amendment is in Table 8 of the amendments, you will see it there. A further question was raised as to the period within which the appeal should be assessed in substance. It was initially proposed that it should be granted within three months. However, the Government of the Republic indicated that the three-month deadline could be too short for procedural reasons. A visit may be received to the Riigikogu immediately before the summer break, for example. On the other hand, the three-month deadline may be too short in a situation where more extensive analyses and consultations are needed. We found that a longer period would be appropriate and could be set at six months. Within six months, the addressee of the appeal shall make a decision on the substance of the appeal which shall be taken. It'll be six months. This amendment is included in Table 9. We made this decision in a consensual manner. We also discussed whether the referee should also inform the referees what decisions have been taken. We found that the obligation to provide information should lie with the judge, and that is how the new text was proposed. This is under table 11 of the amendments. The caller or the contact person appointed by him shall have the right to know the nature of the position taken by the Commission. Finally. If the appeal is in substance such that it does not fall directly within the competence of the Riigikogu, but the problem still exists, then the relevant committee of the Riigikogu is obliged to forward the appeal to the competent institution for taking a position. It is also clarified that the competent institution must formulate a position on this proposal. We also found it appropriate that the Commission, which decides to initiate the appeal procedure, forwards it to either the Government of the Republic or another competent institution for the purpose of drafting and responding to the request, and also informs the Riigikogu Committee from the developed point of view. This proposal was also consensual and is in Table 12. The Commission decided to make proposals for the second reading of the draft on the agenda of the plenary session by 13 February, i.e. the end of the second reading. Both were unanimous decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-13_U9	Thank you, dear waitress. There's a question for you too. Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-13_U10	Thank you, Mr President. The explanatory memorandum to the draft act refers to the European Parliament's petition mechanism, which states that at least one million supporting signatures must be collected for the submission of a petition to the European Parliament. Is it known how many petitions together with a million signatures have been submitted to the European Parliament and how they have been processed?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-13_U11	I don't have a full report. If I had known this question in advance, I would have found out the answer. As far as I know, at least one is done, if I'm not mistaken. This is an appeal on the subject of making Brussels permanent a place for European Parliament meetings, rather than treating them alternately in Brussels and Strasbourg. That's really unreasonable. But if it's the only way to turn, I don't want to answer that right now. I don't know. I have to check.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-13_U12	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? I'm opening negotiations. Neeme Grand Riigikogu speech chair, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-13_U13	Mr President, I would also like to ask for three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-13_U14	Yeah, of course. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-13_U15	Ladies and gentlemen, King Midas was such a nice man whose touch turned everything into gold. It wasn't good for her health, but it was remarkable. Sometimes it seems to me that our coalition side is the opposite of King Midasel: everything that is touched becomes something else, certainly not gold. Liia Hänni proposed the following to the people's assembly. § 46 of the Constitution states: 'Everyone has the right to address national authorities, local authorities and their officials with letters of formal notice and statements. The procedure for replying shall be laid down by law. ' Until now, the law does not specify which procedure must be followed by the Riigikogu. As a result, the people cannot, in essence, exercise the right of petition enshrined in the Constitution. It is high time to close this gap in the implementation of the Constitution. Examples are taken from many countries around the world, including Latvia, where an e-petition system is already in place. Legalisation of the right of petition would provide an opportunity to further develop the ideas presented on the platform of the Riigikogu into draft laws and to submit them as memos to the Riigikogu if a certain number of supporting signatures exist. The proposal received 123 votes for and 0 against. A little more concentrated, but in a similar form, the President also presented the proposal to the Riigikogu. What happened to this proposal? It has indeed become an opportunity to submit a letter of formal notice to Parliament. Unfortunately, yes, it is necessary to collect at least 1000 grant signatures with personal identification numbers for the submission of a letter of formal notice. In the Riigikogu, we have almost come to the same conclusion that a party can be registered with 500 signatures. However, in order for the Riigikogu commission to formally discuss and formally respond to the people's proposal, we demand 1000 signatures with personal identification numbers! The European Parliament does not set a good example in this regard. It is necessary to collect one million signatures in order to petition the European Parliament. It would really be interesting to know how many petitions have already been submitted to the European Parliament and how they have been dealt with. Somehow too much was the Commission's fear of citizens with potential mental disorders, who would all be preparing letters of formal notice on a massive basis and clogging the Riigikogu's committees with their dubious initiatives. Is it really necessary for 1,000 people to review the appeal of the Riigikogu Board and for the Commission to formally put the subject on the agenda? Who are we protecting ourselves from? For the very people who have chosen us? The fact that there was another addition to the draft is very worrying for the Social Democrat. This is not about letters of formal notice, but about the public's oral address to the official. According to the draft, an official of a state or local government entity or of another legal entity governed by public law is not required to accept a citizen if he behaves against good manners or clearly abuses the right to be heard. What would that change mean? Is this a step towards improving official authority? The official himself has the right to formulate the term 'good manners'. If the current text of the law uses the definition that acceptance of a person may be refused if it acts aggressively, endangering itself or other persons, then, after the amendment, it becomes decisive for'mistakes against good manners' and the official himself decides what these good manners are. The official also decides when a person is clearly abusing the right to be heard. What does that really mean? Is turning for the third time clearly an abuse, or is there not yet a clear abuse? Can this be decided by the official concerned? These concepts are clearly unfettered in the draft. In essence, it is an opportunity to send an unpleasant person to an official's door. From this wording, we are faced with the defence reflex of the state of officials. From who? For the same people who pay their wages. Social Democrats support and defend the principles of the citizens' state. We are not satisfied with the approach of opening the door, but there is so much junk piled on the threshold, just in case no one fits in. This concerns the conditions for the submission of a letter of formal notice. We do not accept that the draft is being developed into points that essentially eliminate the real idea of being in the service from the speech of the Estonian public sector. Whose service, then, is our public sector in the service of superiors, authorities, parties or, after all, in the service of the people? According to the wording now proposed, anything but in the service of the people. We have a proposal to interrupt the second reading of the draft and to renegotiate the text of the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-13_U16	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Dear colleagues, we will begin the examination of the amendments to draft 518. The first amendment is from the lead committee. A second amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has not been taken into account by the commission. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-13_U17	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-13_U18	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting on Amendment 2, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote. 27 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 46 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 3 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 4 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The position of the Steering Committee is that it should be disregarded. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-13_U19	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-13_U20	Thank you! Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 4, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote. 22 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 45 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 5 is tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 6 is tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 7 is tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 8 is tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 9 is tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 10 is proposed by the Group of the Social Democratic Party and the position of the commission is that it should be fully taken into account. Amendment 11 is tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 12 is tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 12 is the last amendment to the draft, and there are no more. We have examined the amendments. Honourable Riigikogu! The Riigikogu Board has received a proposal that reads as follows: 'We propose to interrupt the second reading of the draft proposal 518 SE. ' It has been presented by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Let us begin with the preparation of the vote on this proposal. I shall put to the vote the second reading of the draft proposal of the Social Democratic Party Group 518 to be suspended. Please take a stand and vote. 18 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 47 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Good fellows! The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 518. The second reading is closed and the second item is also closed. Good fellows! Today's trial is over. I thank you and wish you the strength of your work! Closure of the sitting at 10.36 a.m.
