ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Members of the Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Prime Minister and Ministers. Let's start today's briefing. Please, let's do the presence check! 40 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present, 61 missing. The following members of government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of the Environment Keit Pentus-Rosimannus and Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aaviksoo.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U2	Let's get to the questions. Since today there are five previously registered topics, there are only two questions that can be asked for each subject on the spot. Please, Mr Allik, a question for Prime Minister Andrus Ansip.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U3	Mr Prime Minister! In the press recently, Deniss Borodich, the new chairman of the Ida-Viru County Organisation of the Reform Party, promised that the Reform Party would come soon, i.e. before the parliamentary elections, with a new Ida-Virumaa development plan and an investment plan. In this regard, I recalled that before the previous parliamentary elections, on 9 September 2010, the Government of the Republic adopted the Ida-Viru County Action Plan for 2010-2014, indeed without an investment plan. Has the Government of the Republic made mid-term reviews of the implementation of this plan? After all, the last year's so-called final effort has just begun. Is it even planned to summarise the implementation of this development plan and publish it before the next elections?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U4	Thank you. The government receives an overview of the implementation of the Ida-Virumaa development plan and plans for the current year each year. This year we will have this debate at the very nearest time. The government office has already completed the materials. When exactly is this debate going on, it is difficult to say, but it is a matter of a few weeks rather than months. The implementation of the development plan has largely gone well. This is also described by developments in Ida-Virumaa. For example, unemployment has fallen most rapidly in Ida-Virumaa, compared to the peak year of unemployment in 2010.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U5	Please, Mr Allik, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U6	Thank you. Something has certainly been done in this plan, but many things have not been done. But I wouldn't want to agree with you very well. The objective development indicators and trends that caused this rather extraordinary measure in 2010 have not changed compared to other counties, the cardinal revolution in the socio-economic development of Ida-Virumaa has not occurred, whether we are talking about unemployment rates, the lack of specialists (lawyers, teachers, doctors) or whether the number of inhabitants of Narva and Kohtla-Järve has fallen the most compared to other cities. Perhaps you will say more specifically how you assess the real effectiveness of the development plan. Actually, my question is what to do with this Ida-Viru County.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U7	What has been done so far must be continued. The Ida-Virumaa Action Plan is primarily designed to coordinate the activities of ministries and institutions in Ida-Virumaa. In my opinion, the action plan has been useful in Ida-Virumaa. When we look at statistics, we see that they have improved faster in Ida-Viru County than in Estonia as a whole. For example, Ida-Viru County's GDP growth per capita has been among the first among the Estonian regions. It is quite natural that, where there have been problems, exiting the crisis also takes place with a greater effect. However, it must be said that Ida-Virumaa is the third largest in Estonia in terms of GDP per capita growth compared to 2005. GDP per capita is the fourth largest in Ida-Virumaa. Compared to the average GDP per capita in Estonia, in 2005 the figure was 60.7% in Ida-Virumaa and 71.7% in 2012, ida-Virumaa rose from 8th to 4th place among Estonian counties compared to 2005. I think it's a pretty good trend. If this continues, Ida-Viru County has a good future to hope for.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U8	Please, Mr Allik, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U9	Thank you. I come to what Mr Borodich promised, that the Reform Party will show a new agenda for Ida-Virumaa. I recall that the current and government-approved plan was carried out in close cooperation with the municipalities of Ida-Viru and the county government. On 20 September 2012, the Ida-Viru County Government also approved the development plan for Ida-Viru County for the years 2014 to 2020. Is the new national and government initiative planned for a longer period of time, or is it a purely political party document, where the investment plan means only pre-election promises?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U10	The government has not yet started to draw up a new action plan, but it is evident to both the good questioners and Eastern virumaa that this topic will have to be dealt with in the future, because Ida-Viru County is of special status in Estonia according to some parameters. While on average 68% of the population live in cities in Estonia, urbanisation figures in Ida-Virumaa are as high as 89%. We know that 67% of the population in Latvia and Lithuania live in cities, 68% in Estonia, 84% in Finland, 85% in Sweden, 86% in Denmark and 89% in Ida-Viru County. The fact that the industry was not involved in clusters with other Estonian industrial companies has left traces in Ida-Virumaa and it is not possible to overcome them very quickly. To date, Ida-Virumaa industry has become an organic part of Estonian industry. The state has made huge investments in energy and oil shale mining and has developed industrial parks. The Ida-Virumaa industry has developed quite well in recent years, but this does not mean that even after the Ida-Virumaa action plan has ended, there should be no more focus on this region. I agree with Mr Borodichi that the government must draw up a new agenda for the new period.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U11	Two locally registered questions can now be submitted. Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U12	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! Five or six years ago, the coalition's top politicians promised to create thousands of jobs in Ida-Viru County. Is it known exactly how many of these jobs were created at national level in five years? I don't want to hear the general answer that it's done and we're doing it. Do you know the exact number or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U13	It is unlikely that this issue can be approached in such a simplified way as you have now proposed that several jobs were created by the state. Then, probably, new jobs in prison services or other state institutions should be counted, as they are directly created by the state. I think that the state's contribution to creating jobs in private business has also been very high, given that the state has encouraged and invested in the development of industrial parks. The state has also invested directly in energy; jobs have also been created in this area. I have already mentioned once that unemployment in Ida-Viru County has decreased compared to peak unemployment in 2010. He is not the first in this decline, but he is the fifth place in Estonia after the counties of Lääne, Rapla, Järva and Jõgeva. Compared to 2012 and 2013, unemployment fell most rapidly from the Estonian regions of Ida-Virumaa. While unemployment in Estonia fell by 0.9% on average at the time, in Ida-Virumaa as much as 2%. This is, after all, the result of a concerted effort between the private sector and the public sector that the trend in unemployment in Ida-Virumaa is encouraging.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U14	The last question registered on the ground is put by my colleague, Priit Toobal.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U15	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister! I have realised and learned that the Reform Party is planning to give a new impetus to the development of both Ida-Viru County and Estonia as a whole, to change chairman and therefore to the Prime Minister. According to the information in the media, it's only a matter of time. Can you tell me today when you plan to go to Kadriorg with your resignation and when you plan to elect a new chairman for the Reform Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U16	Thank you. Was this now a question of the Ida-Virumaa Action Plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U17	I also wanted to ask where Ida-Viru County is coming from.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U18	But in itself, it is not news that I have this last Prime Minister's term. Two years ago, I announced publicly that I no longer intend to stand as a candidate for Prime Minister in the elections to the Riigikogu. If the co-operation of this coalition should be slowed down before the next elections, I will not form a new coalition. There's no news in that sense. When's this gonna happen? Time will tell. You asked me if I knew that. The honest answer is, I don't know, because the party is still discussing the matter. The board of the party and the council and the members of the group will probably choose the right timing and make the right decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U19	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U20	Let's go to the next question. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson, the question of the Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aavikkool!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U21	Thank you. Dear Minister of Education, At the end of last year, when the Riigikogu discussed the state budget this year, it was clear that the budget line of the Ministry of Education did not have enough money to meet your promise to raise the teacher's salary by 12%. At the time, you said the hesitants were wrong and the raise would come. Now, at the end of January, the Government of the Republic has adopted a regulation, an annex of which contains a grant for educational expenditure broken down by municipality. From this table, all municipalities that currently have upper secondary school can see the upper secondary school teachers' payroll fund. These payroll funds differ, but mostly governments lose money from the payroll fund. This raises a lot of questions because these figures are simply taken from somewhere, there are no clear calculations back there. What is the reason why in most Estonian municipalities with upper secondary school, the salary fund for upper secondary school teachers will be reduced, which is why the local governments will not be able to fulfil your wage promise?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U22	Thank you, good questioner! First, I have to make a correction. I do not remember that I would have promised that in 2013 the teacher's salary would rise by 20%. I could not have made such a promise in any way, because it is not realistic and it has never been planned to rise. However, two years ago, the teacher's minimum wage was 644 euros a month. 644 euros a month! I am pleased to say that the data provided by the local authorities for 2013 allows me to state here today that the teacher's average monthly salary in 2013 was EUR 936 and EUR 814 in 2012. The teacher's salary in local governments has therefore increased by 15% in one year. I think this is a significant increase, but I agree with you that the teacher's salary must still rise, it must rise in 2014 and also in 2015. What could be the increase in teacher's salary in 2014 or this year? An additional 5.4% has been allocated from the state budget for wage increases. In no municipality the provision for teachers' pay is reduced; in 90 municipalities, the wage bill increases by more than 10%. I think that if all local authorities, as most local authorities have already done, contribute to the wage increase, the teacher's salary will exceed the 1000 euro limit by the end of this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U23	Please, Mr Simson, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U24	Thank you. Dear Minister of Education, Let me take a specific example. It's from the city of Pärnu, close to my heart. If you look at this table, you can see that in Pärnu, the labour cost component of upper secondary school teachers, which is included in the allowance for education costs, is reduced by 9%, and that the salary of upper secondary school teachers is reduced by 9%. At the same time, the number of students in upper secondary school has not decreased and Pärnu Koidula Gymnasium will only become state secondary school in the following financial year. As a result, the government has reduced the labour cost component of upper secondary school teachers allocated to Pärnu, and how can wage increases be made this year with a 9% lower wage allocation?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U25	Thank you, good questioner! Again, I will begin by explaining the reality of the situation. The Government of the Republic has not confirmed this regulation. The Ministry of Finance has prepared it on the basis of the wage model developed. This regulation is in the coordination circle. We are waiting for proposals to change the points in this regulation, in particular from the associations of local authorities. But I would point out that there are different local authorities. Some of the school organisation reform has been carried out, some are not. It is therefore not possible to say in concrete terms what steps should be taken to bring the school network into line with needs. We have also had these discussions with Pärnu. I hope that the organisation of the school network will make a significant contribution to raising teacher's pay even if public funding does not increase to the extent desired.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U26	Please, Mr Simson, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U27	Thank you. Dear Minister of Education, It seems to me that it is not possible to raise wages with a lower salary. But there is another important component in education support: it is the money for further training. I can also see from this table, which you say is still in the coordination circle, that, for example, in Pärnu, the funding for continuing teacher training will decrease by a fifth, or 20%. The fall is also great in Tartu (17%) and Rakvere (12%). Does the Ministry of Education and Research no longer consider continuing teacher training important? How do you plan to keep teachers' knowledge to the right level in the future, because the world around us is changing every day, but nothing alternative has been offered by your ministry?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U28	Thank you, good questioner! The additional training money has been calculated in a fairly simple way. This is calculated as a percentage of the teachers' wage fund and is exactly 1%. So if we divide the salaries for teachers by 100, we'll get the money for further training. If there's any errors in this operation, we'll definitely check the calculations. The Government of the Republic will not let such mistakes, I hope, pass.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U29	Two locally registered questions can now be submitted. Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U30	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. Your big goal is to raise the teacher's salary to the national average and even higher. How will that be possible? The Ministry of Education and Research's budget is expected to fall in the order of EUR 14 million next year. How can a teacher's salary be increased in a situation where the budget is falling? Should we close up more schools?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U31	Good questioner! I do not think that the Ministry of Education and Research's budget in 2015 is lower than in 2014. I don't see that kind of perspective anywhere. The fact that the Minister of Finance has sent out a letter asking for reduced costs is also known to me. I certainly have a dignified proposal for this decree on behalf of the Ministry of Education and Research in view of our 2015 budget. I believe that in a situation where the economy is growing and prices are also rising, there is no reason to believe that the budget of the Ministry of Education and Research should fall next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U32	Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U33	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! According to this regulation, which is still in the coordination circle, calculations were made in Narva. It turned out that we are going to have a deficit of EUR 403593 this year. This means that we should find this money out of the city's budget or fire 35 to 40 teachers to fulfill your promise to raise a certain percentage of teachers' wages. What's your assessment? If, in order to avoid such a situation and such a painful choice, we present to the Ministry of Finance our proposals for this regulation, what is the probability that these proposals will be supported?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U34	Good questioner! Narva is also a local government that has long discussed reforms of school organisation. I hope that these discussions will at some point lead to responsible decisions which take into account the right of Narva students to receive high quality education and the need for rational and sustainable use of resources allocated either from the local government budget or from the state budget, including the salaries of teachers. If the Narva authorities make proposals to supplement this regulation by wishing to make any changes there, they will certainly be considered. However, as we understand it, redistribution can only come at the expense of other municipalities. I am not convinced of the feasibility of such decisions when money has to be taken away from those who have done this responsibly or are now doing so.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U35	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U36	The next question is from Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aavikkool.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U37	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. According to the Act of the Government of the Republic, language policy is governed by the Ministry of Education and Research. My question concerns the demand for C2 language level in Estonia. As we know, we do not have a C2-level language examination. The website of the organizer of the exams SA Innove states: "As high the level of proficiency in Estonian as in a foreign language must not be required in Estonia at any workplace and therefore no C2 level examination will be conducted. " That is why I turned to the Minister of Finance at the end of last year. The Ministry of Finance has widely introduced language proficiency requirement C2, among others for the driver. In his reply, the Minister of Finance stated that the language requirement for some posts had to be relaxed, but said that he felt that it would be possible to continue to provide for a C2 level language requirement. Can you tell me, do you think that in some workplaces in Estonia the knowledge of Estonian can be required at C2 level?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U38	Thank you. As far as I am aware, there is no requirement for state language skills at C2 level in Estonia and therefore there is no legal basis for this requirement. Whether C2 levels could be useful can be discussed, but the Ministry of Education and Research, which is responsible for national language policy, has still not considered it appropriate, even though it can be discussed and such requirements have been imposed in other countries. So if some ministries have substantiated arguments for imposing a stricter language requirement, then it can be discussed, but there is no such requirement currently known to me or the Ministry of Education and Research. There is therefore no need to introduce such a language examination. It is, on the one hand, a language policy decision, but it is also rational. Such exams require resources. If there is no national need to issue such certificates of language proficiency, it is probably not appropriate to spend the state budget's resources on the establishment of this examination system. In my opinion, this goes back to the feasibility of making such claims to public officials and to other workers. As has already been said, in the Ministry of Education and Research, we believe that this is not feasible.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U39	Please, Mr Ossinovski, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U40	Thank you. I understand from your answer that there is no legal basis to demand C2 levels. How, then, is it possible that the minister responsible for the development of the public service under the law of the Government of the Republic disagrees with this and in his written reply to me it is also possible to set the C2 level because they have a legal right to do so? How can we get out of this situation if the Minister of Education, who is also responsible for language policy, is of the opinion that C2 level must not be demanded, but the Minister of Finance, who is responsible for the promotion of the public service and is in charge of this process, does not agree with this? How do you think it is possible to get out of this situation so that everyone is clear whether or not they can?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U41	I don't have a letter from the Minister of Finance, and that's why I'm quoting from memory. I understood that the Minister of Finance felt that a C2 level requirement could be imposed. I, too, argue that such a C2 requirement may be imposed, but it has not been done so far. If such a requirement is to be imposed once again, I say that this is a political decision, to which I referred, then of course the state must also set up a C2 language examination. I don't see any contradiction here. It has not been established so far, but it can be done. We are not convinced that it would be appropriate to introduce it, but it can be discussed. If this proves to be useful and this requirement is introduced, it will of course be accompanied by an obligation to establish a system for issuing C2 level language certificates.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U42	Please, Mr Ossinovski, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U43	Your view that, if any requirements are in place, there must be a real opportunity to meet them, is very sympathetic to me. However, the problem is that these requirements have already been introduced by the Ministry of Finance, the C2 level is included in the job manuals. From the reply of the Minister of Finance, I realized that although the level of some positions is being reduced, they still consider that it is possible to demand C2 levels in Estonia in accordance with the law even now if this exam is not yet available. How can we deal with this situation? Is the Minister of Education prepared to discuss this either at government level or with the Minister of Finance? It could still be clear to all of us that, as long as the C2 exam cannot be passed, this level of language should not be required at the workplace.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U44	The material at my disposal says that the requirements for the knowledge and use of the Estonian language of an official, employee and self-employed person have been established by the Government of the Republic's decree of 20 June 2011 and have been established at levels A2, B1, B2 and C1. Thus, there is no requirement for language proficiency at level C2 in the Government of the Republic's Regulation. I am not convinced that any agency would be able to impose such requirements without a legal basis based on its own competence. My understanding of the functioning of the state is that if requirements are introduced, but the state has not created the possibility of obtaining a certificate of language proficiency, it will be void. But I believe it would be reasonable for you to refer to a specific piece of legislation, whether it is a code of conduct, an order, a letter of order or any document on which we can take a stand and respond to you after this debate. I simply have no documentary basis for dealing with this issue competently.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U45	Now you can ask the questions registered on the spot. Colleagues Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U46	Thank you. Mr. Minister! I have a purely technical question. You said that there was a possibility that a C2-level language proficiency requirement would be introduced at one great moment and that there would be a need to organise these exams. Then the question arises as to who will prepare these exams and who will evaluate the answers there, because the examiner usually has to have a higher level of knowledge than the one whose knowledge he controls. Isn't there a need for a C3 level and so on to infinity? Who will control those who apply for a C2-level language certificate?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U47	Thank you, good ambassador. Your concern for the language skills of the Estonians is sympathetic to me. However, I believe that we do not have any problems finding competent inspectors, which is not a concern for us. Rather, as I have already said, the question is whether there is a practical need for such a test. When we come to the understanding that it is necessary, we will also find people who are competent to conduct and take exams. In this place, our concern for the development of the national language is not the most justified.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U48	I would like to ask you the last issue registered on the ground, Mr Mailis Reps.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U49	Thank you, Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! If we look at the Government of the Republic regulation you have referred to today, we will see that there really is room for legal interpretation, and that is what lawyers have done. While the state imposes professional requirements up to C1, it can also be interpreted as meaning that the employer may need more stringent language requirements. That's the kind of law that's written in it. Consequently, I have the question of when the Minister of Education and Science will propose, as the Minister in charge of the field, that the regulation of the Government of the Republic be clarified so that it cannot be interpreted by the authorities in such a way that it can, in fact, ultimately become absurd. There may also be levels above C2, if such a provision is included in that regulation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U50	Thank you. As we know, the right is always full of room for interpretation and a large wallet can be used to order a position that interprets as the customer wishes. But I think it is reasonable to take another approach: if there are no problems or conflicts in real life because of potential interpretation, then there is no need to rush to repair the machine that works. But Jevgeni Ossinovski claimed that there was a problem. In the course of resolving this particular case, we are certainly prepared to make improvements in order to increase legal clarity. But once again, the passionate fight against different interpretations does not really make life better, it simply wastes energy, and therefore the key issues remain unresolved. This is the main reason why we have not started to amend this regulation or to impose stricter requirements, be it C3 or C35.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U51	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U52	The next question is from my colleague, Mailis Reps, and again from the Minister for Education and Science, Jaak Aavikkool. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U53	Thank you, Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! I now come to the financing of general education and the regulation of 31 January 2014, which is in the coordination circle. Local authorities and those who want to keep up-to-date with education have been able to extract and access the table of funding data. Today, you replied that if we were to exclude state secondary schools, it could be said that in most upper secondary schools, funding has been quite drastically reduced, in some cases more than 10%. You said it makes sense, because you insist on reorganizing the school network. How can this be done in the middle of the school year?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U54	Good questioner! When you carefully read this document, which is quite demanding and complex, you noticed that the Ministry of Finance has based its drafting on the principle that the first eight months of this year, or during the current academic year, will fund schools on exactly the same basis as in the four months of 2013. For this reason, legal certainty or legal clarity and the necessary stability throughout the academic year have been ensured by my better understanding. All the changes made by the Ministry of Finance to the Regulation concern funding, according to my better knowledge, it is probably not inappropriate to note that the draft regulation has not been prepared by the Ministry of Education and Research, but only by the Ministry of Finance in September, October, November and December 2014. If that is not the case, we will take your attention into account and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U55	Please, my colleague, Mailis Reps, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U56	Thank you, Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. Of course, reading tables is a process requiring accuracy, but I assure you that I have not been the only one who has been able to break these tables. It is not very difficult to look at cities and municipalities here. After all, as a minister, you have made arrangements for basic schools and upper secondary schools to be paid differently, by local government. Those municipalities where the wage fund per student increases by 12%, as it should be. But if we take separate primary schools and upper secondary schools, we'll see that there's three of them on that line with the upper secondary school. As a result, the question arises: if we have to treat school grades separately for teachers when paying their salaries, there must be a very clear school network in the middle of the school year, otherwise the teachers' pay fund will not be sufficient.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U57	Good questioner! I'll explain again. The minimum wage and the average salary are two different things. The minimum wage for the current year is EUR 800 per month, and compared with EUR 715 as it was last year, the increase is indeed 12%. This does not mean that the average wage has to rise by 12% in the same way. No one has claimed this or set it as a goal. The Ministry of Education and Research and the government have always held that the average salary could be 20% higher than the minimum wage. If the minimum wage is EUR 800, then the 800 must be multiplied by 1,2 and we get EUR 960 per month for full-time teachers. This payroll fund, which is provided for in the State Budget Act, allows all teachers whose local authorities had transferred to the EHIS as of 10 November to pay a salary of EUR 967, which by 7 euros per month exceeds the 20% difference allowed compared to the minimum wage. If you explain to yourself the difference between the minimum wage and the average wage increase, you will also be able to solve your concerns about how to ensure this wage increase through state support.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U58	Please, my colleague, Mailis Reps, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U59	Thank you, Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. Of course, it is nice to correct mistakes from the point of view you want. We certainly have viewers and listeners today who know at least as much about education as you do. It is clear that you tried to mix water a few minutes ago, compared to the minimum wage of EUR 644 in 2012, and the average wage. At the same time, everyone who is somewhat involved in education knows that the average salary includes overtime, class management fees and a lot of other things. The public has learned that you have promised a 12% raise. People have understood that this means EUR 800 instead of EUR 715 and that this amount has to be paid out. However, if, at the same time, there is a regulation (it is still a draft at the moment, but when you talk about Narva, you have already said that you are not going to change it), where it is foreseen to be 12, 14% and 30%, where will this 12% increase come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U60	The minimum wage will rise by 12% and the average wage will be at least 20% higher than the minimum wage. I dare say that if we meet in this Chamber in a year's time, we can say that the teacher's average salary in 2014 was over EUR 1000. Specific examples of municipalities need to be discussed more closely than possible within two minutes of a reply. I have never failed to share the basic salary with the basic salary and the average salary with the average salary. Last year, the average wage rose by 15%. This year, I hope, the increase in average wages will certainly be higher than the increase in the national wage fund, which is 5.4%. I would point out that 5.4% and this increase is significantly higher than expected growth, significantly higher than inflation and significantly higher than the increase in wages for all other sectors of the economy. I believe that if we move forward with an early increase in teacher's salary in 2014 and also in 2015, we can gradually, if we also reform and if school-keepers increase their contribution, achieve a situation that we have set our goal. The teacher's salary must be equal to the average salary of a graduate worker, which is estimated to be 20% higher than the average salary of the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U61	Two locally registered questions can now be submitted. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U62	Thank you. Dear Minister of Education, You're talking about the average teacher, just like your partymate in the education minister's chair ten years ago was talking about a good teacher. At the time, he promised a good teacher a double salary. No teacher got double pay, so your predecessor didn't find a good teacher ten years ago. I'm afraid you won't find another middle teacher. If you say that you are imposing an obligation on the municipalities to raise the minimum wage rate, then the municipalities will therefore have higher educational costs. At the same time, for example, Pärnu Upper Secondary School Teachers' Pay Fund will decrease by 9%. After all, in order to comply with the statutory obligation to raise the minimum wage, the rest of the teachers must reduce their salary. Or do you see the possibility that with a smaller payroll you can raise the salaries of all teachers? If you see this, please explain to me how it can be done!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U63	Good questioner! Local authorities are free to organise the school network and to hire teachers. I think it's a right and good principle. There are very many excellent examples in Estonia that local authorities contribute to the teacher's salary equally with the support of the state. If you ask me what kind of local authorities are those who offer additional support from the state, I can read you a few facts. Across Estonia, on average 915 euros were allocated to teachers per month, and local governments added 21 euros on average. We did an analysis of who, and for what reason, allocated more money than their income and who did less. All Estonian rural municipalities received 833 euros per month from the state last year, which is significantly lower than the Estonian average, but they contributed 55 euros per month, which is much more than the Estonian average. Five major cities, on the contrary, received EUR 1005 from the state, but only EUR 988 paid out, or EUR 17 per teacher each month spent on other purposes. Smaller payments were made by Tallinn and Pärnu city. I think that the different attitude of local governments towards education also deserves discussion and attention. So, ladies and gentlemen, there are municipalities that have managed, and there are those where we should look together for solutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U64	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U65	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. It is clear that teachers' salaries can be increased by adding classes and closing schools. Can't the Minister of Education and Science, in order not to create speculation, put forward a scheme that corresponds to ensuring that teachers receive a 10% wage increase? Why hasn't it been done?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U66	I think that is the most substantive question you should ask. But the answer cannot be given solely by the Minister of Education. The answer to this question can be given by three parties together: school managers, directors and the state. I have always said that the rise in teachers' pay can and must be based on three pillars. The additional public funding is one third of the increase in resources required. The second third comes from the organization of the school network. What do I mean? Yes, I am also thinking of reducing the number of teachers, because the number of pupils has already fallen by more than 40%, but the number of teachers is far less than that, it has hardly decreased at all. I believe that if there were as many teachers in Estonia for each student as in Finland, we would be able to guarantee a fully high-quality and modern level of teaching. This is a school-ordered issue, which I hope will be addressed by all schoolkeepers. I have to admit, from a lot of schoolteachers, I get that kind of support. These decisions have been made in a large number of local authorities. We have no reason to believe that education levels have fallen in these local governments and schools. On the contrary, compare Tallinn and Tartu, for example. Now the third pillar. I have repeatedly stressed that, given this, 10% is a completely realistic target. If we spend less than 40% of all the money allocated to the school on the salary of the teacher and the rest of the money goes to other costs, such as heating excessive study buildings or maintaining a school house where no student is studying, it cannot be considered reasonable management. School directors have sufficient freedom to discuss how to increase the resources of the teachers' payroll fund and reduce other expenditure.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U67	Thank you very much, Minister. The debate on this issue is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U68	We have one topic to discuss. My colleague, Heljo Pikhof, will once again put the question to the Minister for Education and Science, Jaak Aavikkool. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U69	Thank you. Dear Minister, According to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, students with special educational needs are not only those who have a disability or medical condition, but also those who have learning difficulties, behavioural or emotional disorders, who have long been absent from school or who do not have sufficient knowledge of the school language. The educational information system contains more than 20,000 children with special educational needs. The situation is particularly bad in the counties of Jõgeva, Lääne-Viru and Põlva. You have made reforms and as a result, support specialists will no longer be financed from the state budget. How are students with special educational needs provided with special education services, including logo beet, psychology and social pedagogy services, where appropriate?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U70	Thank you, good questioner! It's good to have a teacher's background. This allows us to explain in a calm manner as much as is necessary to understand what the Estonian legal area is and how the general education system, including the support specialist service, is financed in Estonia. After Estonia regained its independence, funding for schools, including support specialist services, has been the responsibility of the schoolmaster. That was two years ago, and that was five years ago. In public schools, all expenses are covered by the state, the local government in local government schools and the private school manager in private schools. According to the law, schools are supported to cover costs and help to cover the remuneration of teachers, directors and teachers. In two years, the law had the opportunity to spend teachers' salaries also to reward support professionals. This led to a situation where teachers' pay started to fall extremely quickly compared to the average wage in the country. That is unfortunate. That is why we have found and still find in the past two years that the teacher's salary should reach the teacher. It is certainly also possible to discuss the full commitment of the state to financing the support specialist service. We haven't done that so far. However, I can assure you that 12% more money has been allocated to teachers' salaries in 2014 to meet the needs of children with special educational needs than in the previous year. We have also established a system of county centres to support schools.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U71	Please, Mr Pikhof, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U72	According to the Praxis 2011 survey, school and kindergarten managers and teachers prefer to have a support specialist in a kindergarten or school. Specialised education services at county level, including logo beet and psychological services, are not considered necessary as the case-by-case approach is neither effective nor effective. These professionals are unable to analyse the environment in which communication, behavior and learning difficulties arise, nor the everyday life of each school and community. It has also been found, for example, that the waiting list of a specialist at the counselling centre may extend to several months, but the conflict situation needs to be resolved immediately and now. After all, second-level counselling takes place in counselling centres. Why would you prefer to support second-level counselling when there is a need for first-level counselling?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U73	Thank you. There is a need for both first-level and second-level advice. Nobody has changed the obligation for schoolkeepers to provide support services in all schools, as has been the case for the past 20 years. We're not losing one system, we're creating an additional system. According to the Ministry of Education and Research and a number of experts, access to quality support services is modest, especially in smaller schools. You might ask why we don't put specialists into these little schools. But let's think a little bit about the actual situation, let's get a little higher than paperwork. Access to support services is the weakest in schools where perhaps only one or two teachers work. It is probably not real that we can hire a special pedagogy, logopedia, psychologist or social pedagogy in addition to one or two teachers in that school. For this reason, solutions have been sought and found, by the way, far from the wisdom of their own, but by analysing the rather rich experience of other countries, that the creation of centres extending beyond the borders of local government, together with the determination of responsibilities and service standards, is a sensible solution. Once again, we've created something and we haven't taken anything away.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U74	Please, Mr Pikhof, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U75	Thank you. In fact, you took away something by not releasing the state's money. According to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, the organisation of education for pupils with special educational needs is based on the principle of inclusive learning, according to which they generally study in the normal school of their place of residence. Kersti Nigesen, Director of the Old Town Educational College, who involved students with special educational needs, has noted that this form of study has led to the closure of the school. I would like to know how to motivate schools to include children with special educational needs in normal education if it is not financed further. One more thing. I didn't mean that there should be all the special educators in a school with one or two kids. These specialists can be shared between schools, and there are very few schools with one or two children, perhaps one.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U76	After all, we came to the same conclusion quite sympatheticly that this specialist working at the center is the specialist who serves several schools. Thank you for your understanding. As regards support for schools that have gone along with inclusive learning, I would like to say in the introduction that we should be aware that children with special educational needs who participate in mainstream and mainstream education through inclusive learning are not a few exceptions, but 17%, that is, one child in six. If there are 24 children in the class, then one in six, once again, statistically, but somehow it has to be done with special educational needs. In each Estonian class, there are therefore about four children with special educational needs. If these four kids go bankrupt, I think there's something wrong with our understanding. As regards schools dealing with more difficult cases and where special conditions are needed, I have already said that we have paid particular attention to supporting these schools. In the 2014 budget, the resources allocated specifically to children with special educational needs have increased by 12%. As has already been said, the overall increase in resources is 5.6%; for children with special educational needs, this increase is 12%. So what you have pointed out is that we have been thinking in the planning of financing policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U77	Ladies and gentlemen, Question Time is coming to an end. Colleagues, thank you very much for asking questions. Prime Minister and Minister for Education and Science, thank you very much for your reply. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U78	Good afternoon, honourable Members of the Riigikogu. We will begin the session of the fourth working week of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. Ladies and gentlemen, there is now an opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U79	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, I hand over the draft law amending the Advertising Act. The draft concerns the organisation of the advertising market for consumer credit, which is, as we are accustomed to naming national languages, the advertising market for quick loans. We want to ban outdoor, television and radio advertising for financial services, in order to prevent a large number of consumers from becoming insolvent and even incarcerated because of their ignorance, inexperience or simply a decision made at the whim of the moment. We know there's about 50,000 people who've taken a loan on short notice but can't pay it back. According to our draft, advertising of a financial service would only be allowed at the location of the loan service provider, at the location of the intermediary of that service or on the website of the service provider. In addition, we bring in the amendments made on the basis of the European Commission's comments. The European Commission has announced that a formal infringement procedure will be launched against Estonia. We believe that if we ever reached an agreement in the Riigikogu to ban casino advertising and tobacco advertising, partly restrictions on alcohol advertising, we could also ban dangerous high-speed TV, radio and outdoor advertising. We have seen from the TV interviews that there are sympathizers of this idea among the members of the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U80	Thank you. On behalf of the board, I have adopted a bill. If it complies with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board will decide on this procedure within three working days. Now, colleagues, I have some messages for you. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and has appointed leading committees for them. Firstly, the draft law on the ratification of the Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters, initiated by the Government of the Republic on 10 February, of which the commission is the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Secondly, the draft law amending the Foreign Professional Qualifications Recognition Act, initiated on 10 February by the Government of the Republic, whose commission is the Committee on Culture. Thirdly, the draft Act on Supplementation to § 222 of the Road Act, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group on 11 February, of which the commission is the Committee on Economic Affairs. Colleagues, please, let's do a presence check. 87 members of the Riigikogu registered as present and no 14.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U81	Let's keep going. Yesterday we failed to read the draft of the Riigikogu's decision 'Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State on the European Union peace-building mission in the Central African Republic'. However, since Inara Luis had a procedural question, before I call on my colleague Kadri Simson, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to talk calmly about how we discussed this issue in the Bureau yesterday. I confess that this was the first time for me to discuss such a matter in 11 years. So thank you, Mr Luigas, for pointing out such an interesting violation. Pursuant to § 98 (1) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu, the commission may, with the consent of the initiator or author, submit the draft as amended. This is the opportunity that the National Defence Commission has made use of. In accordance with the procedural traditions of the Riigikogu, the National Defence Committee has also submitted its own explanatory memorandum to the amended text of the draft decision 583. The explanatory memorandum shall contain information on the progress of the draft procedure and the reasons for submitting the draft as amended. The word "implementing acts' contained in point 3 of the explanatory memorandum submitted by the National Defence Committee is not relevant. Thanks again to Inara! It is appropriate to refer to implementing acts in the explanatory memorandum to draft laws in order to give an overview of which government or minister regulations may be issued under the law. In the case of draft decision 583, implementing acts cannot be mentioned as no regulations are issued under the decision. The so-called original explanatory memorandum to the draft decision submitted by the Government does not mention any implementing acts. Unfortunately, the National Defence Committee has taken as an example the structure of the explanatory memorandum drawn up in the draft law and with it has automatically used the term 'implementing acts'. It is justified to draw attention to this inconsistency. I repeat: thank you very much to my colleague, Mr Luigas. Maybe we've had these strange things before, but he was the first to draw attention to it. However, this is not a factor that would prevent the draft from being discussed and deciding whether or not to stop reading the draft. Thank you. My colleague Kadri Simson of the speaker's desk, please. Who else is there? Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas! Just ask a procedural question, because I can't tell you anything more about why the procedure was broken here. I confess it was a violation, but it wasn't the manager's fault. Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U82	Thanks for the long explanation, but that doesn't satisfy me. Since the Government of the Republic presented the draft law to the National Defence Commission and the National Defence Committee...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U83	He did not submit to the National Defence Committee, but to the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U84	To the Riigikogu, I'm sorry! The National Defence Committee made amendments and presented the draft decision as amended to the Chamber of the Riigikogu. When this draft decision was read in this Chamber, the members of the Riigikogu had not received the material. It was absolutely impossible to understand which draft decision was being dealt with, whether only from the National Defence Commission or from the Government of the Republic. The information contained in the draft of the Government of the Republic is contrary to those in the draft of the National Defence Commission. Consequently, the question arises as to whether or not the implementing provisions are part of that decision. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U85	Wait a minute, Inara, I'm not gonna let you talk so much! One minute to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U86	But according to the law...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U87	I can't. Okay, next question. Inara, I'm trying to answer. The point is that the decision of the Government of the Republic was available online and on paper as well. Second, when you asked, additional copies were made. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U88	I have a procedural question. When I first asked the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu to take time off and clarify the situation, the time ran, but there was no material. Why did the Board of the Riigikogu not comply with its obligations under the Rules of Procedure Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U89	The point was that the draft for the first reading was already in the Chamber and the original text of the draft was added. It is very difficult for me to answer you because I did not chair the sitting of the Riigikogu yesterday. I think we went through these things. I think we can move on. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U90	I'm sorry, but I'm just pointing out one more thing. Indeed, this draft decision must be based on certain UN Security Council declarations and decisions taken by the Council of the European Union. However, when this draft decision was dealt with in this Chamber, one very important document was not a decision of the Council of the European Union. Would you take a break before the vote so we can get acquainted...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U91	Good Inara! Understand that I cannot begin to discuss the substance of this draft decision. One moment, can I explain? When we finish first reading, you will be able to take part in the debate and ask for these things in the Committee on National Defence. This is not a procedural question, please understand! The procedural question was what you put forward earlier on implementing legislation. You were right about that, and it was a procedural question. But to say what the United Nations or the European Union is doing, to tell you the truth, I have no power. Please, Inara!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U92	Thank you. I'm sorry, but that's the point. If we do not have the decision of the Council of the European Union, which is the basis for this decision, then no one will have the information on the basis of which the draft decision of the Riigikogu so structured will be adopted at all. There was no Council decision last time, and there is no Council decision in this Chamber today. Would you take a break and give us the material that every member of the Riigikogu is obliged to read before he or she makes a decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U93	Can I come back to the subject again? You're asking me this as if it were a procedural question. But it's not a procedural question. Please, understand what is a procedural question and what is a substantive question! I told you, I'm sure the National Defence Commission will be ready to talk to you about all these things. The President cannot say whether or not the UN has given the mandate. In the National Defence Committee, you will be able to get these answers between the first reading and the second reading. But if we look at what's a procedural question, it's not a procedural question. We can argue forever. If I take a break, I can't bring you this document from the UN. [[Laughter.]] Or do I have to go to the U.N.? Dear colleague, understand, I am offering you an opportunity to discuss the substantive issue very seriously. This is a very serious question, I think, and you have the right to discuss it, but there is no need to say now that it is a procedural issue. This is not a procedural question. The President of the Riigikogu cannot resolve these issues. I understand you already have the fifth question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U94	Thank you. Dear Ene Ergma! We talked about this this morning. The Social Democratic Party Group had a chairman of the National Defence Commission who said that he had the materials that all members of the Riigikogu should look at. The decision of the Council of the European Union is a basic document on the basis of which the Riigikogu can draw up such a draft decision at all. I have a request to share these materials with members of the Riigikogu. It's your duty. The Rules of Procedure provide that the Management Board of the Riigikogu must provide the members of the Riigikogu with material on the drafts.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U95	I'm sorry! The Governing Board is not involved in looking at and checking what each committee is doing. Then all we have to do is deal with it. When Mr Raidma said that these documents were available, we can get to know them between the first reading and the second reading. But, ladies and gentlemen, let's move on. I ask that the questions you are asking be procedural questions! It wasn't a procedural question. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U96	Thank you. Dear Ene Ergma! I have a procedural question. When we talk about international military operations, the International Military Cooperation Act states what are the implementing acts to be adopted after the Riigikogu adopts the decision. Why are these implementing acts not related to the draft decision? Under what law have you not included them in this draft decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U97	Dear colleague Inara Luigas! The Board of the Riigikogu does not add any implementing acts. This is done by the government or, in this case, could have been done by the National Defence Commission. But it will be discussed in the Commission, it is not a matter of procedure. I come back to the fact that this is not a procedural issue. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U98	I have a procedural question. When the Commission decided to bring the draft before the House, we too had not yet taken the necessary decisions at European level in accordance with the laws in force. Did the Commission break the Rules of Procedure if it made its decision earlier than it could have done or if it had been justified and put the Riigikogu's assembly before the fact? I will not touch the question of whether it was appropriate for the Government of the Republic to send this bill here so quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U99	Dear colleague Eiki Nestor! This, of course, is not a procedural question. The Commission proposed to take this draft to the debate, and we do trust the committees. I'm sorry, but we're not doing this to see what's in the bill and if it's all there. We trust the Commission. Whether or not the Commission's actions were justified is not a procedural question. I'm sorry, it's not a matter that the board will solve. Please, Eiki!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U100	I also have another procedural question. Given that the consequences of this decision may, in fact, be very serious and we must under no circumstances break the rules of procedure here, it may be better for the government to withdraw the draft from the procedure, which is, of course, unpleasant for them, and to resubmit it if they so wish. The Riigikogu can also reject this draft at first reading, which would be even more unpleasant for the government. It's a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U101	Yeah, it's a procedural question. As I have said, we can reject this decision if we are to vote on this draft. Please, Mr Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U102	Thank you. I have a two-part question, to which I would like an answer. First of all, do I understand correctly that the Board of the Riigikogu cannot control which additional documents the members of the Riigikogu read when preparing and making their own drafts, and what they do not read, do they read them on the Internet or on paper, and do they receive these documents from the deliberations of the committee or from somewhere else? That was the first part of the question. The other side is like this. Are you in agreement with the fact that all the improvements that need to be made in this draft can be made between the first and second readings, can be made during the Commission's debate and can finally be reached in the final decision, which is fair, beautiful and without error?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U103	Dear colleague Kaia Iva! I have already said that it was God's right that my colleague, Inara Luigas, pointed to this finger (sorry for using this word). This inaccuracy certainly had to be corrected, but it can be done between the first reading and the second reading. Of course, the Board of the Riigikogu does not deal with checking what members of the Riigikogu want to know about one bill or another, but we know that if Members are interested in the subject, they can go to the meetings and discussions of this committee even if they are not members of the committee. I think any member of the Riigikogu can make a contribution here. Now I'm gonna give you three more procedural questions, but then we're gonna move on. My understanding of what is a procedural question is slightly different from that of my colleague, Inara Luigas. Once again, if you feel that this draft decision is bad, it is always possible to vote against it and reject it. Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U104	Dear Ene Ergma! When you sum up this whole thing, it is actually quite pathetic to look at what has been brought to this Chamber of the Riigikogu: the two complete french dishes that a member of the Riigikogu has to chew through. The explanatory memorandum states that the Riigikogu can decide if there is a legal basis. Yesterday we were unable to get acquainted with the decision of the Council of the European Union, despite the fact that we asked for it. Therefore, if we go ahead with the procedure on the draft decision, it will be incomplete work. Do you understand that a parliament of a parliamentary republic is not dignified to do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U105	The thing is, we can go on with this between the first reading and the second reading. Then we'll solve all these questions. Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U106	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! I've known a spy who would have said 20 minutes ago that there is no such thing as a procedural question in our Home and Working Procedures Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U107	Why not?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U108	If there was time, I would read to you Article 74 of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure, 'Protests and Questions on Procedures for Conducting a Session'. There's a definite definition of how this whole thing is going to happen. Sometimes this argument really gets long, but today it's not all well-founded. I don't know what's going on. Why do you even allow this?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U109	Dear colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin! I guess I have some things I have to promise people to calm down a little bit. In that, you have the right of God that these are not procedural questions. I promise you one more question, if that's a procedural question, Lauri Vahtre. If not, I agree with Mikhail Stalnukhin. No, it's not. Got it. Dear colleague Inara Luigas, we will now continue to work on the points on our agenda. I would like to ask for the floor as a representative of the Group of the Centre Party of Kadri Simson.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U110	Ladies and gentlemen, Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! I agree that the Riigikogu should not decide whether to send its defence forces to a foreign mission in such a way that, if the minister is in this chair and answers the questions, there are only one of the MPs in the Chamber who intend to vote in favour of the draft, or take responsibility for being on the mission of the Estonian Defence Forces. Nor should this decision be taken in such a way that the explanatory memorandum that accompanies this draft decision is a real mess. But, on the other hand, the procedure under which the European Union and the Member States send their defence forces to Central Africa is constantly changing every day. In fact, it was not possible for the National Defence Commission to add those documents to the material that were only completed this week. So we probably have to accept that there are different decisions between the first and second readings and that there are also a number of countries that are involved in resolving the crisis in the Central African Republic in one way or another. Above all, when making this decision, we should think about the interests of Estonia and the conditions for the foreign mission to which the Estonian Defence Forces are sent. I think that the first condition that must be met is that Estonia's national security must be at risk. Yesterday, we heard from the Minister of Defence that in his opinion, when we send 55 Estonian Defence Forces to the Central African Republic, we defend Estonia's interests. I don't think so clearly. It certainly does not guarantee that 55 of our defence forces will go far south of the Vähi Circle, that we will have telephone rights in the future, and we will be able to call one or another of the leaders of the European superpowers during a possible crisis and invite the troops of this country to come here as quickly as possible. Rather, our going to the Central African Republic is not linked to minimising national security threats. The second condition, which must be met in the case of an external mission, is that we must have a clear objective that these 55 armed forces will achieve within four months in the Central African Republic. Yesterday, Reinsalu said that our aim is to transfer a stable security environment to an African Union-led mission. Do we really think that these 55 armed forces will be able to leave in four months' time by handing over a stable security environment in the Central African Republic, whose territory is as large as France? I'd rather not. Thirdly, we decision-makers must assess the potential risks and costs clearly and transparently. The cost of this mission is EUR 2.7 million. This amount is much higher than has so far been spent on foreign missions. The rule of thumb has been that a soldier on a mission costs a million kroons a year. This going to Africa is more expensive than that. The risks there too are unknown to us: possible diseases and dangers to the spirit of men. There may not be such a threat, there is no great danger of meeting well-armed and directed forces against us. The fourth condition that the mission must meet is that our people must support the mission. Can we argue that, yes, Estonian taxpayers understand why we are sending our Defence Forces to the Central African Republic? I'm not so sure about that. The fifth condition is certainly that, before we send our defence forces on a foreign mission, there must be clear international support for it. The situation with the Central African Republic mission is, of course, much better in this sense than were the stories in their time with the decision to send Estonian troops to Iraq. There is currently a UN Security Council resolution. The Foreign Ministers of the European Union have also just decided, this week, that EUFOR RCA will be created, consisting of 500 members of the Defence Forces. The interim president of the Central African Republic has also made a request for assistance. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U111	Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U112	But what's missing? Despite all this, very large and important NATO and European Union Member States have announced that they will not send their men to the African soil. The deployment of their infantry to the Central African Republic has been ruled out by Germany and Great Britain. Although the Minister spoke about Italy yesterday, I have not understood any of the data available to a member of the Riigikogu so that Italy can send its men there. So we are more holy in this matter than the Pope himself. Several countries that are much more capable of military force have decided to stand aside or contribute indirectly. It should be borne in mind that France, a former motherland, would probably be able to solve this problem much more forcefully than it is with the current 1600 armed forces. This has also been pointed out by UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, who has asked France to increase its contribution. It could be a place for us to think. I told you before, if we send our men to an unknown country, then the dangers there are unknown to us. The minister remained very vague about the right of Estonian Defence Forces to intervene. We have seen from the news that the French, who are currently carrying out the same tasks that the Estonian Defence Forces are likely to perform, cannot interfere with the settlement of accounts between local people. French soldiers have been able to make a warning shot, but have not been able to prevent the murders of local people. This situation may result in several broken spirits returning to Estonia in four months' time. Finally. This mission won't be over in four months. As several experts have said when going to one country to ensure peace and stability, responsibility for that country will remain until this objective is achieved. If we don't do this in four months, we'll be in charge of this country. Probably not as much as the native motherland of France, but once we've gone there, it won't be so easy to come out. All these arguments should be carefully considered before being voted in favour or against. I admit there are both pros and cons. In my opinion, there are more than half arguments against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U113	Thank you very much, Mr Simson. I would like to ask my colleague, Lauri Vahtre, as a representative of the Group of the Union of Isamaa and Res Publica.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U114	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We are indeed discussing a difficult issue today. I agree with the previous speaker on quite a number of points, including the fact that there are both pros and cons of our decision on one or other solution. My ears have come from objections, for example, that this is simply an overly dangerous and ugly place where major massacres can take place. It has been argued, yes, rather in Net commentaries that our boys are being sent there to kill Africans. The biggest objection has been that whether or not we send our 55 men there is not really important and the stability of the Central African Republic does not depend on it. Let us now take a closer look at these objections. The first objection is quite bizarre. We wouldn't be talking about a mission to a country that isn't dangerous. We are not discussing here whether to send your military mission to Sweden, for example, although there is probably no fear that several broken spirits will come back from there. So, in this way, we can't discuss it. Secondly, of course, no one is going to kill the Africans, but still to prevent the killing. We are talking about the risk and maybe later we have to be responsible to ourselves and other people for our decision, in case it causes harm to our boys. But there is also the other way around: we must be responsible if we do not get the Defence Forces to help there and thus turn ourselves into an indirect accomplice for perhaps thousands of those who were killed and raped, whom we could have helped. Finally, our mission has no real impact. This could be the most profound counter argument. I thought about it very carefully. I remembered a Chinese fairy tale of 20 old men who met at the market and loved to talk to each other. They decided to come back together in a week, and everyone had to take a teapot full of vodka. Next, the fairy tale focused on an old man whose name was, let's say, Lin Bin. He went home and thought, "Whoa, whoa, whoa, when 20 pots of vodka are all poured together in one pot, it doesn't make sense if he's filled the pot with water, it doesn't matter. He took water instead of vodka. Got the old men together, poured all 20 pots in one pot, and started drinking together. Turns out it was the clean water they drank. What we are being recommended here is, in fact, a national level rhepapupku: ah, which we stick our noses in there, and our presence will not change anything anyway! Our presence is exactly the Lin Bin pot of vodka. There really is nothing that depends on this alone. But if we think that way, if everyone thinks that way, or if our country takes the habit of thinking that way, then we will be rewarded. However, this is a more serious question. So today we are not deciding (this decision is not final, but it is fundamental) whether we want to go to the Central African Republic. Of course I don't, everyone would be happy if it wasn't there. The question is whether we have to or should do so. The previous speaker ended by saying that if we go to help, we will remain responsible for what will become of this country later. I say, excuse me very much, but if we do not go to help, we will remain equally or even more responsible for what happens to this country. The decision is a matter of conscience. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U115	Thank you very much, Mr Vahtre. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. Since the Social Democratic Party Group has had to reject draft 583 at first reading,... Excuse me, Mr Ossinovski! As far as I know, the Social Democratic Party Group has already appeared. A procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U116	Thank you. You could have finished the sentence. I have a procedural question. There was a mix-up with the explanatory notes. This explanatory memorandum, which is currently submitted to us, contained in the explanatory memorandum to the first reading of Bill 583, has been very little talked about this mission, but there is a reference to the explanatory memorandum to the decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic, which is much more comprehensive. To what extent does the original explanatory memorandum provided by the government apply? This is what we need to know so that we know how to vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U117	Today's debate is based on the explanatory memorandum submitted by the National Defence Committee to the decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic. We must vote through the wish of the Social Democratic Party Group to reject the draft 583. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the Social Democratic Party Group's proposal to reject draft 583 at first reading. Please vote! The proposal was voted in favour by 25 votes to 52 members of the Riigikogu, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. I will set the deadline of 17 February at 10.30 a.m. for the submission of the 583 amendments. First reading of Bill 583 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U118	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the State Family Benefits Act 542 initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group. Member of the Riigikogu, Mailis Repsi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U119	Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! We had to deal with this bill yesterday. For those who, in the meantime, urgently need to leave the Chamber, I would just like to remind you that we will soon reach the debate on the Wednesday agenda items. At the moment, however, we are discussing the draft law amending the State Family Benefits Act 542. This is the first reading of the draft. I will therefore present to you the objectives and content of the draft. The purpose of the family benefits in force in Estonia (this is even stated in the Act) is to partially compensate families for the costs of caring for, raising and studying their children. Estonian parental and birth benefits are intended for young children, and as the child grows, the state's support for the family is drastically reduced. Several parents have received a surprise during the more than ten years in which parental benefit has been in force, since in the current sense it has been possible to receive parental benefit in the amount of several thousand euros, but only 19 euros will be received after its payment if this amount is converted into euro. The current universal child benefit has long been in the way, and the allowance for the first child was last increased ten years ago. Just as a reminder, the consumer price index has increased by 50.7% over this decade, including food prices by 61.6%, and housing costs have increased by 2.1 times, or more than twice. A collection of articles on children's well-being published by Statistics Estonia at the beginning of this year shows that 17% of Estonian children lived in relative poverty and 9.5%, or almost 10% in absolute poverty, in 2011. In the third quarter of last year, the first children in Estonia were 157725, the second children were 69298, and the third and more children were only 16373. The government's policy so far has mainly improved the situation of the third child of the family and of the next children. However, as you have already understood, these children represent only 6.7% of all children, i.e. the whole debate on raising child benefits, and all this policy has only affected less than 7% of children. Poverty has an unacceptable impact on the daily livelihood of a large number of children. In the year before last, coalition parties launched a new type of family allowance, based on a need-based family allowance. Unfortunately, it has become apparent that since it is so small, it does not fulfil its purpose. Indeed, support of EUR 9,59 does not help most families living in poverty to cope better. The introduction of this support increased the workload and responsibility of local social workers for the administration of benefits. Many families have given up this support. The draft law amending the State Family Benefits Act, initiated by the Central Party Group, aims to support the management of families with children. In addition, the purpose of the bill is to contribute to the increase in the birth rate in Estonia. The biggest obstacle to having children is the family's concern about economic survival, or tomorrow. However, the fight against long-term negative growth must be a clear priority for our country. What can the state do? Above all, the state can start with what we are currently offering: greater child benefits must be secured and the well-being of families must be ensured. Our draft foresees a three-stage increase in child benefits. We have based ourselves on the current rather modest economic situation, and that is why we have provided the coalition with a system that is completely understandable, reasonable and accessible in our economic environment. Firstly, on 1 January 2015, we plan to increase the child benefit for the second child of the family to six times the amount of child benefit, i.e. from the current 19 euros and 18 cents to 57 euros and 54 cents. The impact of this amendment on the 2015 budget is EUR 31.9 million. Secondly, on 1 January 2016, the child benefit for the first child of the family should rise to four times the amount of child benefit, i.e. from the current €19.18 to €38.36. The impact of this change on the state budget is similar to EUR 33.3 million. Third, on 1 January 2017, the child benefit for the first child of the family should rise to six times the amount of child benefit, which is EUR 57.54. I recall the impact of this change on the state budget, with a budget of EUR 36.3 million for 2017. The amendment will increase the cost of the state budget, but these costs can be calculated in stages when preparing the state budget for 2015, 2016 and 2017. Of course, we all have the hope that we will see the revenue from the increased state budget due to economic growth, and this is only a matter of priorities. But if you look at general leading sectoral documents, it is clear that nothing can be more important than our future and our children. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to this staged child support, no one can say that it is not possible to introduce it, it does not take into account economic growth or the reality of the situation. This is essential in the long term, because we certainly do not want to recognise, when adopting the 2017 state budget, that child benefit is still EUR 19. I sincerely hope that we all have the desire and will to have a constructive discussion of the draft, because the well-being of Estonian families and children should be a matter for all of us. Let me conclude by referring to the discussion in the Government of the Republic of Estonia of the draft law amending the Law on National Family Allowances, as presented in Bill 542. I'm sure the Social Affairs Committee waitress can talk about it. The Government of the Republic has sent the Social Affairs Committee quite a number of interesting reasons why the government is cautious about the gradual rise in child benefits. The Ministry of Social Affairs has decided to carry out an analysis of the effects of early childhood education and care services. Its aim is to examine the impact of public family benefits, child maintenance assistance and additional income tax exemption on children, parental benefit and early childhood education and care on poverty in households with children and children. The Ministry of Social Affairs, despite the fact that the support of the first and second children has been unchanged for ten years, has decided that during 2014, the Ministry will try to complete one analysis. Then it will be decided whether and to what extent child benefits should be increased in the Republic of Estonia and whether they are needed in this form at all. I sincerely hope that the reasons given by the Government of the Republic for rejecting the draft will not be taken seriously and that most members of the Riigikogu will understand that there is no need to examine the adequacy of the 19 euro. I hope that it is clear to you that this is not sufficient child support to help, as I said, partially reimburse, by law, the costs of caring for, raising and studying a child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U120	Thank you very much, Mr Mailis Reps. You have questions. Colleagues Priit Toobal.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U121	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good groupmate! The issue of child benefits is certainly somewhat wider than just the draft that has been put into the procedure by our group. You also said how many children live in poverty and deep poverty. We know that the situation is so bad that in many families children are starving and suffering from empty stomachs. We have proposed a more complex solution to this issue. For example, we have wished for free food to be available to children until the end of the upper secondary school and also in the final part of the kindergarten, i.e. preparation for school. This complex solution also includes ring-fencing and summer camps. It has always been the government's view that they are developing a complex solution. Do you think this bill will solve these issues, or do we have to continue to deal with free school food, summer camps, round money, etc.?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U122	Thank you, good questioner! I believe that most members of the Riigikogu, as well as the public, once again have confirmed these very serious figures about relative and absolute child poverty, ask what to do. We've been free for 20 years. According to the Prime Minister who is still in office, we are an absolute example for everyone in terms of statistics. Europe as a whole follows in our footsteps because we are very talented in many things. Still, people have questions. I believe that if there were three children starving in Estonia, there would also be too much, certainly 3,000 children living in absolute poverty would be too much, but if we have 30,000 children living in absolute poverty, that is absurdly much. The issue here is no longer that the local social worker does not notice or some measures, such as child benefit, do not reach the person in need. The question here is that there is no national policy and there is no desire to address the issue. What, then, must be noticed about children living in absolute poverty? These are children who cannot eat enough and whose environment is not normal. During this winter, the facts have been presented that we do not have a cold, moist, damp, and very dangerous environment for the lives of tens or hundreds of thousands of children. What are these measures? Of course, child benefit is not the only measure; there are very many other measures here, but child benefit is one important measure. If we want to take Europe as an example again, we must remember that child support is considered very important in Europe. It makes no sense for us to take comfort in the fact that in Latvia the poverty rate for children is even worse, or to look for another country in Eastern Europe, where quite a few thousand children live in poverty. We need to look at those countries that are a role model for us in social policy, education policy and in many other areas, by whom we align, but also whose mistakes we learn and whose mistakes we certainly try to avoid. In these countries, subsidies provide quite strong social guarantees. The reason is very clear: it seeks to avoid a family falling below the poverty line when a child is born. This is unfortunately a fact in Estonia. Of course, we must add here our unwillingness to deal with a single parent. We have not taken any steps towards the state taking on the payment of a living. We have not taken any steps to strengthen children's health guarantees in order to create something like the paediatric system in its day. The family doctor system does not guarantee the health surveillance of every child. We have not had the will to deal seriously with the catering of children. Yes, indeed, we have free school food, but free food is not provided in kindergarten or upper secondary school. It is also necessary to ensure that children can be fed during the summer months. So there are a lot of questions. The next stage of absolute poverty is general poverty. In this respect, the figures will be even higher and there will be questions of interest education and general development of children, as well as other aspects.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U123	Please, colleague Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U124	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You said the social worker wouldn't make it to every child living in poverty. But even if he does, this need-based support is like a joke. It's only one in ten. You said here the bill of how many children live in poverty. If 3,000 out of 30,000 children living in poverty use this support, it is too little. What do you think are the reasons why a parent doesn't ask for 9 euros per child?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U125	Thank you, good questioner! Fortunately, we no longer need to rely on the opinion of just one person or another, because the press has done polls, unfortunately, the state has not done research, why needs-based child support has been so rigorously applied. First of all, it's worth 9 euros. What, though, does the family have to do to get it? First of all, you have to go to a social worker, with public transport connections outside the centres generally very poor. It must be accompanied by documents to prove that there is enough poverty to receive support on a need-based basis. Families living in absolute poverty are often apathetic, have given up and feel that no one will come to their aid. If this is not a support that really helps to support this child and the family every month, but a request must be made to obtain it, then very many families will give it up. Secondly, it has also been said in the press that there are families that live quite clearly in poverty, but whose income in some euros exceeds the threshold established for the grant, and who therefore do not receive this support. This information is now moving very quickly and, in turn, deters those in need of support. The country has not made enough effort to explain the system to people and to simplify this process in any way. Thirdly, it is considered, let us say, a sign of the state's attitude when, after all the huge advertising and the talk campaign, only EUR 9 is increased.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U126	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Mailis Reps. Please report to Heljo Pikhof, member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Speaker's Office.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U127	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! As the previous speaker has already said, the faction of the Estonian Centre Party has submitted a draft law amending the State Family Benefits Act to the proceedings of the Riigikogu, which aims to gradually increase the universal child benefit paid to the first and second child of the family, which is currently 19.18 euros per month. The draft consists of two paragraphs. Here are the dates when the child benefit will rise. I will now tell you about the debate that has taken place in the Commission. On behalf of the initiators, Yana Toom presented a draft to the Commission. He said, first of all, that the idea actually had to be put forward when we were sitting in the Chamber on the initiative of the Socialists and discussing the problems of child support at length. The draft represents a compromise between the Centre Party. He stressed that the problem had to be resolved and that the Centre Party's draft wanted to increase child benefits gradually. He also stressed that only 7% of children live in families with three or more children. The support of these children has risen, but families with one child and two children have been left in the orphan's section. The Commission asked questions to an official of the Ministry of Social Affairs. He said that he fully supported the support of the first and second children, but at the same time complained about why the money was not brought from where it came from. The government representative explained that they had to plan this money into the budget. He promised that, as a result of the Green Paper's analysis, they would prepare a complete set of support services. Services and benefits should go hand in hand, so if parents go to work after the parental benefit has been paid, they would not just be able to receive this small child care allowance. As the previous speaker has already said, the Government's representative stressed the complexity of the solution and the long-term nature of the process. He said that it would not be enough to raise only one support. If one aid is increased, its impact on income support, for example, must be looked at. He said that the government does not want people to be deprived of income support as a result of any other increase in support. Yana Toom wondered whether the interim changes, which were also supported by the Ministry of Social Affairs and which concerned, for example, needs-based support, were not based on any research. In response we found that need-based support is such a subject, it is such income support... I didn't finish that sentence. The question then came from a member of the coalition. He said that we are all aware that the implementation of needs-based family support started very hard in local governments, and we also know the reasons. If this Green Paper is to be submitted soon, the analyses should be based on local authorities. He wondered whether the government had drawn any conclusions on changing the existing system, whether it was necessary to increase the level of support based on needs or to make it easier for people to submit applications, so that the system would still be fully operational. I repeat, this was a question from a member of the coalition. It also added that a tenth of the projected target group has requested this support and, if only a tenth have done so, this support is still not the best one. In response, the government representative said the same as stated in the government's position that needs-based support has also been played out in the analysis and on the basis of different scenarios, for example, so that everyone receiving income support would automatically receive this support, or so that household incomes could be weighed, etc. Yana Toom was therefore interested that if the Social Democrats are preparing a draft, it would not be suitable for the government, if the central parties were preparing a draft, then it would not be appropriate, and the argument is always that the government is working on this issue. He also asked whether our drafts would be taken as proposals in this work and whether they would be discussed. From the government representative, we received an answer that the entire draft, not specifically just those sums, has been reviewed in the analysis. They have looked at the number of first, second, and third children in their families. He also said that the rates of subsidies were really old and old. Yana Toom explained her question and added that certain groups are sitting together and discussing these matters, but at the same time do not involve opposition parties who have made proposals on this issue. In response, we found that the analysis was not carried out by politicians, but by impartial Praxis. That is how our debate ended. Decisions were taken at the end of the Commission meeting. We took decisions to propose, firstly, that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 11 February and, secondly, that the draft be rejected (five Commission members, four against, no abstentions). Mr Pikhof was appointed rapporteur. If the first reading is closed in plenary, we will have a proposal to set the deadline for tabling amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 26 February. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U128	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U129	Thank you. Good colleague! This needs-based support has been called poverty-based, and that is not the case. However, the government does not support this draft and notes that the Ministry of Social Affairs is preparing an analysis of family benefits aimed at examining the impact of public family benefits on the poverty of children and families with children. Can it be concluded that so far, at ministerial level, there has been no analysis of the impact of family benefits on child poverty? What do you think? You've been working on that too.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U130	Thank you. First of all, the need-based family allowance. You said it was poverty-based family support, but it could also be called state-based family support or family support based on state budget opportunities. The Commission has been talking over time about where the EUR 9 came from, what kind of child's needs it should satisfy, why this amount is so small and whether any studies have been carried out that show that this amount should be EUR 9. As far as studies are concerned, of course they have been done, but it seems to us that there is rather a staggering tactic here. We could look to the Nordics. Everything is being done there to prevent families with children from falling into poverty, there are large child benefits and other services, which have been discussed here today, i.e. childcare and kindergarten facilities are available, there are a whole range of free services in school, etc. When it comes to the experiences of the southern European countries, we see where the need-based child support has led: the number of births is decreasing. I think one of the reasons why we are having fewer and fewer of the first children in our families is that the state does not care enough about families with children.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U131	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U132	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good colleague Heljo! You've been dealing with the Social Affairs Committee for a long time, including child benefits. I'll ask you more generally. Have you had a discussion in the Commission on the current issue, or before, that if, after 435 days of parental benefit, there was no agreement to significantly increase child benefit, would the country be prepared, in the future, above all in the near future, to increase compensation for school lunch, for example? Or is the state prepared to take on other costs, for example, to start paying the subsidy from the state budget, which was once financed by the state budget? Has anything like this been discussed?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U133	Once the drafts have been submitted, these issues have been discussed. It's a strange situation right now. I don't know how many of you have read Professor Lauri Leppik's article that appeared last year. He wrote there very clearly that universal grants should be a state topic and need-based local government. But we're becoming more and more the opposite. There are a number of cities who are bravely paying the backpacking allowance at the beginning of the school, there are also such municipalities. There are a number of cities and municipalities that pay support to first-classers. I can give an example of Tartu, where it was agreed that s. From 1 September, the start-up grant for school start-ups, i.e. the amount of the grant, will be EUR 50 per child and will be paid from 1 September of the following year. For those entering the class, this support may be carried forward gradually. In fact, these should be national measures. However, if the state does not do so, local authorities will deal with these issues. If you come back to school food, of course, this is the amount that the state is contributing to compensating for children's school lunch, which is in the way of time. Food prices have increased rapidly, but for some reason the price of lunch is still the same, or it is hoped that the portions will be reduced. I don't understand that attitude.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U134	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U135	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, We all know that the support of the first child in the family last rose ten years ago. However, when we talk about another child in the family, the support of these children increased even more time ago. Did the Commission discuss why this has happened, whether it was political will or whether it was due to lack of money?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U136	Let me get this straight. You asked me why they don't want to increase child support right now. Support for the second child of the family last increased in 2002 and for the first child in 2004. Not everyone in the Commission explains why they decide the same or the other way around. But I guess we have different ideas about child benefits at all. There are people who support and want to move more towards needs-based support. There are those who do not consider it important to raise universal child benefits, I mean support for the first and second children of the family. We can always get behind the fact that we have a development plan for children and families until 2020, we already have the Green Papers and there will be more. It is claimed that once they are all worked out and written down, we will see what we do.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U137	Lauri Laasi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U138	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! When a family decides whether to have children, one of the most important fears is that a larger family cannot cope financially. Did the Commission also mention what other measures could be taken by the State to alleviate this fear? If this was not discussed in the Commission, which would, of course, be very unfortunate, I would listen to your ideas on the subject as a progressive person.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U139	Thank you. I start with what are the reasons why people who, judging from surveys and polls, want an average of two or three children in the family do not often make this good sense. One reason is the material situation, i.e. the low level of state support. The reason for this was identified by 50% of parents in the 2008 study. Secondly, it is not certain whether they will get a child's child care or kindergarten place. The third reason is the fear that a child will not be able to have a full childhood and not be properly educated. What are the reasons why little children are born, why our demographic situation is like this and what can be done, of course, needs to be discussed more widely in the Commission. Perhaps, after this debate, there will be more Members of the Commission who will support the rise in universal child support.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U140	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U141	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, As expected, the draft law amending the State Family Benefits Act, initiated by the Central Party Group, was not approved by the Social Committee. The subject will now be examined and analysed. Was the Commission also looking for any alternative solutions to improve the situation of children and increase child support, or is it only the analysis that will be carried out?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U142	As I said before, we asked the government representative whether child support was too low, and he said that it was. I don't know what else to say right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U143	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U144	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Commission waitress! I am the vice-chairman of this committee, but I do not remember how many green papers in many areas we are allowed in these three years when you and I have been sitting in the Social Committee together. Maybe you remember and can help me.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U145	Thank you. If I could remember all the drafts we've submitted, I could tell you exactly. Whenever we put forward a draft concerning children, we are told that there is a development plan until 2020 and that there will also be Green Papers and a Green Paper is about to be completed. We need to read the bill and then we know how many times we have been promised it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U146	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U147	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I want to make it clear not to be wrong. What were the reasons and arguments why this bill was not being dealt with? That's one side of the question. The other side is this. You said that the Ministry is currently in possession of analysis, research. What's gonna happen now? Do they intend to continue to do so this year or when? Or is it like Yanagi said there could be three books, but maybe ten?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U148	In fact, it can be said that the development plan for children and families is really very well prepared, and that is what all members of the Commission agree. If the directions that have been written there were to happen, then life would be much easier for Estonian children. I'm going to read out what the Government of the Republic has said about the Central Party Bill 542. I do not read the whole opinion, but the final part: 'The Government of the Republic does not support the amendment of the law, as an analysis of the effects of family benefits and early childhood education and care is currently being prepared to examine the impact of public family benefits, child maintenance assistance, additional income tax exemption for children, parental benefit and the impact of early childhood education and care on poverty in households with children and children. In addition, an in-depth analysis of the family benefit scheme will be completed in 2014 and a concept of benefits and services for families with children will be developed. While important processes (study and Green Paper) are ongoing, changes to the family benefit system are not feasible. We also note that the implementation of the above-mentioned draft law entails significant state budget costs, but no reference is made in the explanatory memorandum to what these resources are found to be at the expense of. '
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U149	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U150	Thank you. Yes, the birth rate problem must be actively addressed, I fully agree with that. But in the coming years, your bill will be accompanied by huge expenses from the state budget. Have you also considered it necessary to coordinate this draft with the Committee on Monetary Affairs or to ask for their opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U151	Thank you. We're on one commission, George. You could have proposed that at the committee. This is a draft of the Centre Party; this is not a draft of the Social Democrats. We would have been very happy to discuss the country's ways of finding more money to increase support for one or the other or to develop a service. You could have proposed that at the committee. Another time, please, do it!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U152	Good waitress, thank you for your report and your answers. No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? They do. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask for a speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Estonian Centre Party Group Mailis Repsi!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U153	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Let me remind you of what we are discussing. We are discussing a very important issue today. In fact, nothing is more important to the future of our country and people than to have good and good people born and to be able to speak in Estonia about the fact that we have strong families and a strong future. At the same time, for several years now, we have had very sadly negative lives. This is despite the fact that in a few years we still have many women of childbearing age. From 2016, however, the future mothers who were born when the birth rate was much lower in Estonia will reach birth age. So we're talking about a situation where tomorrow is too late. If we recall the long debates that were held here both in the early morning hours and in the late night hours, the main reason for the 2014 budget, when dealing with why it is impossible to raise child allowances, was that in 2014 there would be no funding for this in the state budget. In response to the concern of the coalition, the Centre Party Group has offered you a model that allows you to split costs over three years: 2015, 2016 and 2017. However, expenditure for no year will exceed more than half of the amount you foresee in 2015, for example, by reducing income tax alone, which you have decided to make the first priority. Thus, in the next three financial years, it will be possible to find the resources for the increase in child benefits if only desired. In the next vote, the only question is whether you want it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U154	Thank you. I ask the representative of the Social Democratic Party Group, Heljo Pikhof, to speak at the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U155	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! The Social Democrats support any draft aimed at raising universal child support, as is the Central Party draft we are discussing today. During the current composition of the Riigikogu, the Socialist Envoy Group has submitted four drafts on the triple of child benefits and has proposed such amendments to the state budget every year. Unfortunately, the government alliance has run over all our proposals with a roller coaster. The draft Social Democrats, put on the shelf by government departments, envisages raising the family's support for the first and second children from EUR 19.18 to EUR 57.54. The Social Democrats believe that the triple of child benefits is absolutely essential in a situation where the number of children and births in Estonia has decreased in recent years and thousands of our children live in distress. After all, raising universal child benefits is an effective means of helping to increase the birth rate and supporting the full development of all children. Recall that on January 1, ten years came from the day the family last received the benefit of the first child. The second child's support increased even earlier, in 2002. The question arises of what was received for EUR 19 in 2004 and what is now received for this money. It can be said that 19 euros of child support has become the biggest disgrace of the Estonian state. It is a disgrace that government departments have consistently overlooked this acute problem over the years. Like the Centre Party, we find that it is high time to make up for this grave mistake. The need for real support for children is all the more topical because the so-called reform of needs-based family benefits, which was to reduce the number of children living in poverty, has failed in substance. In place of more than 30000 families, this allowance, i.e. EUR 9.59 per child, has been paid around 3200 families per month. We are convinced that the rise in child support has been cancelled, not because of the lack of money, but because of the government's lack of will. As I have already said, child support has lasted for almost EUR 19 for ten years. During the same period, the volume of the Estonian state budget has increased 2.5 times. In 2004, the budget amounted to EUR 3 billion, and in 2014 it is already nearly EUR 8 billion. A child benefit of EUR 57,54 is certainly affordable for the state. Finally. Social Democrats continue to fight for increased child support. Our goal is to take real steps to reduce child poverty and improve Estonia's sad population figures. We will continue to work towards creating a government that will implement our ideas as early as 2015, if this does not happen first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U156	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The commission has proposed to reject the draft 542 at first reading. Let us begin the preparation of this vote. Dear colleagues, I would like to put to the vote the draft proposal of the lead committee 542 to be rejected at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 45 members of the Riigikogu voted against and 34 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was supported. The draft law amending the State Family Benefits Act, as initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group, 542 has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the procedure. The second item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U157	Let's move on to the third item. The third reading of the draft law amending the Penal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. We can go to the preparation of the final vote. Dear colleagues, as the draft 468 requires a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu, we will carry out a verification of presence before the final vote. 77 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 24. Dear colleagues, I will put draft 468 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 69 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The draft law amending the Penal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 468 has been adopted as a law. The third item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U158	Let's move on to item number four. The third reading of the draft law amending the law on the obligation of departure and refusal of entry initiated by the Government of the Republic and the European Union citizen's law 444 begins. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 444 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 76 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The draft law amending the law on the obligation of departure and refusal of entry initiated by the Government of the Republic and the European Union citizen's law 444 has been adopted as a law. The fourth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U159	Let's move on to item five. The second reading of the draft "Acceptance of Culture Policy until 2020" of the Riigikogu decision presented by the Government of the Republic begins. I ask for a presentation of the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Cultural Commission Urmas Klaas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U160	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 2 December m. a. The first reading of the draft law took place in plenary. a January 15th. No amendments were tabled by 29 January 2014, when the deadline for submitting amendments was set. The Committee on Culture prepared the draft for second reading twice: on 30 January and 10 February. At its meeting on 30 January, the Commission decided to make one amendment to the draft, which I shall say a few words below, and on 10 February the Commission approved the second reading procedural documents. As I said, the Committee on Culture has tabled an amendment. We state in a clear way that the Riigikogu does not propose to the Government of the Republic to present a report on the implementation of the fundamentals of cultural policy, but that the Government of the Republic will present a report to the Riigikogu on the implementation of the fundamentals of cultural policy, and we will also specify when the Government of the Republic will present this report. In fact, according to the proposal of the Committee on Culture, this will take place from 2015 during the spring session of the Riigikogu plenary session. The Committee on Culture felt it was right to do so during the spring session, because it would then be possible to screen proposals for next year's state budget during the process of monitoring the fundamentals and preparing the report, and this would be the appropriate time to formalise the proposals for the state budget. This report will take place from 2015. The Committee on Culture decided to put a draft for the second reading of 553 on Parliament's plenary agenda on 12 February and to propose that the draft be put to the final vote after the end of the second reading. The Commission's decisions were taken in a consensual manner. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U161	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U162	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Mr President of the Commission. You said that no amendments were received to this draft decision. According to the procedure, these improvements are also quite difficult to propose, because they can only be made on the so-called decisive part; Parliament does not have the right to make proposals on the fundamentals itself. Do you consider this procedure to be correct? Do you think if Parliament had the right to make proposals on the fundamentals too, could they have been received then?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U163	Thank you. Repeating is the mother of wisdom, Mr. Toobal. I repeat for about the seventh time that the Government of the Republic and the Minister of Culture, Rein Lang, involved the Riigikogu Cultural Commission in the preparation of this decision as well as the fundamentals of cultural policy. We have put forward proposals on the fundamentals of the Committee on Culture, with consensus. These proposals went to the Government of the Republic through the Ministry of Culture and all of them were taken into account in developing the final text of the fundamentals of cultural policy. Even before you may have found out, they were already included in that document. But, of course, it would be better if this House had more influence in the preparation of such a fundamental decision as the fundamentals of cultural policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U164	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U165	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear colleague, Chairman of the Committee on Culture! In the course of the debate on cultural policy in the Commission, was there any mention of the inclusion of traditional Estonian food in the fundamentals of cultural policy, or was it even a question of food?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U166	Thank you very much. Food culture is certainly a very important part of our culture and mentality. [[Summing.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U167	Good waitress, I'm sorry! Ladies and gentlemen, there's a lot of noise in the hall, and that's what I hear from every row of the bench. Please respect the waitress and those who want to listen!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U168	In particular, we did not have the subject of food culture upstairs, but we talked very thoroughly about cultural heritage, its preservation, viability and transfer. With regard to the first provisions of the document, the Commission proposed to improve the wording so that the preservation of cultural heritage, its viability and precisely the transmission of cultural heritage could be made clearer. I am sure that a lot of Members of the Commission had in mind, among other things, food culture and our national cuisine. Well, I personally am.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U169	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? I'm opening negotiations. Please to the speech chair of the Riigikogu Mart Meri!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U170	Ladies and gentlemen, So, today, there will be a final vote on the acceptance of the fundamentals of cultural policy. I am here before you in a dual role: as an authorised representative of my group and as a member of the steering group for drawing up the fundamentals. As a representative of the ambassador group, I am pleased to confirm that the Social Democrats are voting in favour of the cultural policy lines. It is important to remember that this document does not disappear from our perspective into the dusty repository of strategy papers, but reminds itself at least once a year when the current Minister of Culture will present us with a report on the state of Estonian cultural policy. If today really should happen with Parliament's unanimous support, which I hope will not mean that the forthcoming ministerial reports will necessarily be accompanied by a unanimous vote of praise. In this sense, today's document remains a current and lively text, a tool for shaping cultural policy in the broadest sense, giving all parties the opportunity to be active. One objective has already been achieved with this document: the drafting of the fundamentals forced the representatives of the cultural fields to get together and to think about what is most important in their area. How this was successful depended on the willingness of each area to discuss matters together and on the ability to formulate them in an understandable way. The lack of consistency of the document reflects our current situation and the different capacities of cultural areas in determining their role and position in the cultural landscape of Estonia. It would be wrong to interpret the fundamentals of cultural policy as an action plan for the administration of one ministry. During the preparation of the fundamentals, the Ministry of Culture managed to carry out a study entitled "Key concepts and trends of Estonian cultural policy," which is known to be the most extensive cultural study in Estonia ever. Its main conclusion was that cultural players, be they creators or participants in creative activities, perceive culture more widely from the so-called official common sense, according to which culture is a professional art by Estonians and is publicly supported. The study showed that culture is actually perceived more widely, without professional, territorial or national constraints and with every man's right of access to culture. This means that Estonian society perceives creation and participation from the point of view of classical cultural democratic approach. This conclusion is important to bear in mind, for example, the role of public libraries in developing and maintaining their network, of course, as cooperation between central government and local authorities, but also in developing creativity in the education system already in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Research. These examples also indicate that it would be wrong to regard the fundamentals of cultural policy as a document of a ministry's administration and to discourage the actual influence of the document. As a member of the steering group, we tried to involve the steering group from the very beginning, in addition to the Ministry of Finance, it was mandatory for representatives of other ministries as well. Only the Ministry of Education, whose staff was also of great benefit to the steering group, succeeded. A representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs did not come forward; the regional level was also unrepresented. Due to differences between ministries, the concept of state architect, for example, disappeared at the final stage of the drafting of the document. The general political agreement was as if there was, but the obstacle was the indecisiveness to determine which ministry to administer... [[Summing. The manager's ringing the bell.]] Can I have a little more time, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U171	I was just trying to help you make your speech better in the hall because there's too much noise. I'm sorry to interrupt! I'll give you three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U172	The general political agreement on the introduction of the concept of state architect was more or less there, but the indecisiveness of determining what the institution of the state architect should be under the administration of the ministry was an obstacle. I also recommend that you read the explanatory statement of the fundamentals, which contains clues and references to some of the problems that could not be solved in the main text. Finally. I would like to thank the former Minister for Culture, Rein Lang, who dared to take action and gave relatively much freedom to the steering group. Yes, of course, at the final stage of the drafting of the document, Reinu, still the red pencil of the political minister, but at least afterwards it seems that the censor of the Ministry of Finance was much tougher, because almost every more powerful verb prepared him out of the text. Nevertheless, the fundamentals of cultural policy are a good tool, provided that all parties are prepared to use it to do meaningful work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U173	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu speech chair Liisa-Ly Pakosta!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U174	Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, I would like to thank the former Minister for Culture, Rein Lang, as well as Mart Meri, whose contribution to the work of the Committee on Culture was significant and whose speech I fully agree with in every word. As regards the document on the fundamentals of cultural policy, I have recently been approached with three main concerns, and I am using this remote control here to explain these concerns publicly. The first concern for people is why our most precious cultural assets, the Estonian language and its development are not reflected in such an important document. The reason is very simple. Namely, we have a national development plan for Estonian for the years 2011 to 2017, which is a valid document. The strategic development of the Estonian language started already in 1998. The Estonian Language Council was established in 2000 and the first development plan approved in 2004 was valid until 2010. The current Estonian language development plan is reviewed by the Estonian Language Council at least every two years. It is probably not enough for the Estonian Language Council to review it every two years so that the development of the Estonian language gets more attention. It would certainly make sense if the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu were to examine in the near future what problems have occurred in relation to the development plan and whether the Riigikogu is able or necessary to contribute to the development of the Estonian language. Since our tool here is a word, both in writing and in speech, the best thing we can do is, of course, to keep and develop the beautiful Estonian language. Other concerns relate to the coverage of popular or national culture or rather to its lack of coverage in this document. More specifically, it has raised concerns as to why specific objects, institutions or events have not been highlighted in the fundamentals of cultural policy. They have not been highlighted for the reason that each chapter is subject to an operational programme at the Ministry of Culture or other authorities. These plans should provide a precise indication of the concrete actions and the budget for the coming years. I have been called upon by sectoral representatives to keep an eye on and, if necessary, contribute to the completion of the operational programmes. This addition, made unanimously by the Riigikogu Committee on Culture, that during the spring session the fundamentals of cultural policy will be examined and these issues will be heard in this large Chamber, certainly includes that we will be familiar with the operational programmes and listen to the concerns of the parties that may have arisen in the preparation or implementation of these plans. Thus, a legal, public and well-accessible instrument has been created so that every person can contribute to and contribute to cultural policy. This concerns national or national culture in the same way, as separate operational programmes are planned to promote it. I hope that, thanks to all the work that has been done, the cultural debate in the Chamber of the Riigikogu and the Committee on Culture will become much closer, more meaningful and more detailed than it has been so far. Once again, thank you to all those who have contributed to this document. We hope for active cooperation in the coming years! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U175	Thank you. I ask for the Riigikogu speech chair Lauri Vahtre!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U176	Mr President! Honourable fellows! Talking about culture is certainly much more pleasant than a possible mission to the Central African Republic. Because who doesn't love culture? Everybody loves culture. But who loves politics? That's a harder question. Few people love politics. Now we have culture and politics together here. After all, it is said that the less politics, the better culture is. But if there is no cultural policy, then cultural people are the first to come, put their hands on their hips and ask why we do not have cultural policy. So I guess it's still necessary. We also see here how the word 'policy' has two clear meanings. What is not wanted is party policy, and what is wanted is politics in its right sense. It's doing the affairs of the country, the people and society as well as those who do it. Why should cultural policy, as such in paper form, be necessary as a document? But it's because there's something to grind about to have some kind of base, some kind of noodle line or coordinate axis on which you can place what's happening and even if you can figure out whether the graph direction is up or down or how this graph should be drawn at all. It is true, as has been pointed out here, for many reasons, the text, the text of the fundamentals of cultural policy itself, has been drafted, rather without any sharpness, to say the least. I read him, and I thought it was like a big eel, I don't have anywhere to get it right, he slips out of my hand. That's true, I'm a little overreacting. There were also the roughest places that my heart rejoiced when I read, seeing that there was indeed something said now. For example, it was said about film art that films should be made in such a way as to preserve Estonia's own film school. This objective is understandable to me, and I find it very commendable if we set ourselves such an objective. In the second place, it is clearly stated what our cultural policy attitude towards Estonian minorities is. Now it can indeed be carried out and raised as a counter-argument when, once again, completely absurd and vile, defamatory accusations are being made about the attitudes of the Estonian state and people, as was the case in yesterday's newspaper, where it was claimed that minorities are not cared for here. This is certainly not the case, as it was claimed. I just gave you a few examples, you could give me more. But we have to understand that culture, of course, we all understand it, but we still have to remind ourselves and others of it, and it's much, much, much wider. Culture has been dealt with quite widely in this document, but in fact it is even wider. Each nation's culture is like a huge oceanic steamer that travels relatively slowly and changes direction very slowly. God forbid, but when he begins to drown, he does it quite slowly. Culture is communication. Culture is a communication between people living at the same time, i.e. horizontal communication, and culture is a communication between generations, i.e. vertical communication. It follows that, for example, the best language policy is positive. I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U177	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U178	Also, the best art policy is positive ive and the best education policy is positive ive. This is my cetrum censeo, I can't help but come up with it in this debate. I just want to say that this paper, which is necessary, and the cultural policy that is necessary, are secondary in comparison to our own existence as such. However, unfortunately or fortunately, this document does not regulate or attempt to regulate it. In summary, it must be said that this document does not do any harm and that it is already a very big achievement. However, it would probably be very harmful and foolish if we rejected him for some unexplained reason. So let him be accepted, I say. But let us always remember the philosophy of the relationship between politics and culture. The question of why the state does not intervene means that the situation is bad, but when art and cultural people ask why the state intervenes, the situation is much worse. So let's try to keep the line. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U179	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu to speak to Rein Lang!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U180	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. First of all, my friend Lauri, the eel is one hell of a fish! But I was motivated by the personal need to congratulate the Committee on Culture and to thank him very much for his constructive work and attitude on the initiative of the government! The previous Riigikogu adopted in its last session developments in legal policy, for which the Minister of Justice had worked for four years. Only at the last session of the Riigikogu was it possible to approve these developments. The fact that the fundamentals of cultural policy, I hope, will be approved one year before the end of the mandate of the Riigikogu, shows that the Committee on Culture has done its work very well. So thank you again! I also thank the Committee on Culture for my initiative to amend the museum law as it went. This means that these things were discussed in the Committee on Culture and the future was actually a question of legalisation. But so that this speech does not become an empty word, I say that if we should approve the fundamentals of cultural policy, the Committee on Culture could discuss whether Estonia also needs the law on state funding for culture, the law on state budget funding. We have a law on state guarantee for business support, but we do not have a law on state support for culture. This is justified by the fact that we have the Cultural Endowment and the Estonian Cultural Endowment Act. But we have come so far in Estonia that the wealth of our country enables culture to be supported, in addition to cultural capital, from the Ministry of Culture's budget. There's a passion around it, and they're constantly screamin'. It also reflected a little bit in this debate, which went around the fundamentals of cultural policy. Very many people said that this document is not worth anything, because it does not say black in white how much money they will receive in 2020. So I have a proposal for the Committee on Culture and its Chairman to discuss at the earliest time whether such a law is needed in Estonia. I already know the Ministry of Culture is ready to write this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U181	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Dear colleagues, we will examine the amendments to the draft 553. One amendment has been tabled by the lead committee. We have examined the amendment. The position of the lead committee is that a final vote should take place at second reading of draft 553. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. Dear colleagues, I will put to the final vote a draft of 553. Please take a stand and vote. 72 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The approval of the 'Cultural Policy Fundamentals' of the Riigikogu decision submitted by the Government of the Republic until 2020' draft 553 has been adopted as a decision. The fifth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U182	Let's move on to item six. The second reading of the draft Apartment Ownership and Housing Association Act 462 initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I ask for a presentation of Riigikogu Chair Member of the Legal Affairs Committee Siim Kabritsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U183	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Legal Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu prepared 462 second readings in six sittings: 9th, 16th and 17th December m. a, 21 and 27 January s. a and on 10 February s. a. In addition to the drafters, we included all those who wished to participate in the debate. Advisor to the Minister of Justice Madis Timpson, Head of the Department of Private Law of the Legal Policy Department of the Ministry of Justice Indrek Niklus and Advisor Vaike Murumets, Intern of the Ministry of Justice Gregor Raudvere, Managing Director of the Estonian Banking Association Katrin Talihärm, Lawyer of Swedbank Annemari Õunpuu, Member of the Board of the Association of Estonian Apartments Urmas Mardi, Adviser to the Group of the Estonian Centre Party Kätlin Joala and representatives of the non-profit association KETA. The Social Democratic Party Group and the Central Party Group, as well as the Estonian Banking Association, the Estonian Association of Apartment Cooperatives and MTÜ KETA, submitted amendments to the draft by the deadline for submitting amendments. There were also visits from citizens. Several people had spoken to Liisa-Ly Pakosta about the problems and asked him questions about the regulations of the draft. He forwarded them all to the Committee on Legal Affairs and considered it right that proposals worthy of initiation should be drawn up in the form of proposals from the commission of directors. At its meeting on 27 January, the Commission decided to take full account of one amendment tabled by the Social Democratic Party Group (list No 9) and to initiate six amendments (list No 2, 6, 7, 17, 18 and 19). I will say a few words about the amendments that were supported by the Commission. Amendment 2: The Legal Affairs Committee initiated an amendment to § 10 (2) (3) of the draft on the proposal of the MTÜ KETA. The revised wording also allows the proceeds from the disposal of new apartment property to be distributed among the owners on the basis of the size of each part of the apartment property and not to be used solely for the maintenance or improvement of the part of the co-ownership of the apartment property, as originally envisaged. The amendment also ensures that the norm is consistent with the fundamental rights of everyone enshrined in § 32 of the Constitution. In the national language, this means that if a building management company decides to dispose of a penthouse, it is up to it to decide how the income is distributed and used. Amendment 6 The Committee on Legal Affairs initiated the amendment of the time limits set out in subsection 23 (2) of the draft, which aims to prevent a repeat general meeting of the building management company from being convened before the first general meeting and not too long after the previous general meeting became indecisive. This amendment shall govern the procedure for convening an additional general meeting, providing that it may take place within 10 days, but not earlier than two days, from the date of the meeting which proved to be indecisive. Amendment 7. On the initiative of Riigikogu member Liisa-Ly Pakosta, the Committee of Legal Affairs initiated the amendment of the deadline provided for in § 29 (3), which provides, instead of the initial 30-day deadline, that the deadline for the request for annulment of the decision of the body of the building association is 60 days after the adoption of the decision. The initially proposed deadline was disproportionately short, as the mere time for formalising and making available the documents on which the claim is based is two weeks. This is a declaration of invalidity of the Bureau's decisions, an appeal against them. Amendment 9. If the building management company has a statute, the rules of the building management company's statutes must be guided not only by the law, but also by agreements of common interest. The Commission took full account of the proposal. The statutes must always be used if they exist and are adopted. Amendment 17. The Committee on Legal Affairs will initiate this amendment on a proposal from the Ministry of Justice. The new wording of § 51 of the draft law makes it more clear that not all housing associations are obliged to report on the financial year. According to § 50 (2) of the draft law, a building management company with up to 10 apartment ownership and no management board can keep cash accounting. In such a case, the Accounting Act does not require the preparation of an annual report nor can there be an obligation to submit the report to the Registry. Thus, in apartment buildings with fewer than ten apartments and no management board, there is a small exception. Amendment 18. The Committee on Legal Affairs also complements the draft with the amendment to the Accounting Act, which aims to establish a clearer link between the draft and the Accounting Act, as the accounting differences between all other persons are set out in the Accounting Act itself. The main difference is § 50 (2) of the bill, which allows a housing company with up to ten apartment ownership and no management board to maintain cash accounting. According to the Accounting Act, accounts are kept on an accruals basis and, by the only exception, cash-based accounts have so far been kept by self-employed persons. They also have no obligation to prepare the annual accounts. The last amendment, which was endorsed by the Commission, is Amendment 19. This is a technical clarification of the provisions of the draft entry into force. As a consequence of Amendment 18, the numbering of the sections of the draft has partly changed, it is therefore necessary to adjust the entry into force provision. The procedural decisions and proposals of the lead committee were as follows: The Committee on Legal Affairs decided to send the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for the session of 12 February and to propose that the second reading be stopped. When the second reading is completed, we will have a proposal to send the draft to the third reading by 19 February, and we will propose that the draft be put to the final vote. All these decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U184	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are questions for you. Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U185	Dear waitress, As we know, about half of the houses have housing associations and half of them have a different form, an association of apartment owners or what it was. From the outset, there has been some confusion about the fact that under this law they will all become housing associations by 2018. The law states that the building management company will be established by means of an agreement on the creation of special property between co-owners or by a declaration of division of the owner of the immovable property. This agreement requires the consent of all apartment owners, but if this is not the case or if they do not want to set up a cooperative, then it will probably take place on the basis of a declaration of division, meaning that the owners of the apartment will be forced to become a member of the housing association. Can you explain how this procedure will happen if the owners don't come together and choose the board, in short, if they don't want to be members of the cooperative? That is usually the first question to be asked when it comes to this law. Can you explain the mechanism again?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U186	Thank you for a good question. In the Committee on Legal Affairs, this issue received a lot of questions because these problems are complex. We asked the authors of the bill about this. They thought that some parts of the housing associations would remain voluntarily uncreated by 1 January 2018 when the law fully enters into force. But the state is planning to establish it in apartment buildings where no housing company has been voluntarily established.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U187	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U188	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You may have discussed this in your committee, and certainly you, preparing the Commission's report, have analysed it, especially in view of the future mandatory housing associations, what to do in a situation where there are only one or two apartments in which people live, the rest of the apartments have owners who are unable to sell their real estate and really do not want to be owners of this property. What should a building management company, state or owner do in this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U189	Thank you for a good question. This issue also rose up in the Commission and we discussed what can be done in such cases. The bill voluntarily allows you to give up your dwelling. The question is that giving up can be in the favour of the local government, which has to solve these problems. But different houses have different problems. In very many houses, the problem is that if two apartments are inhabited and very many apartments are empty because people have moved to either Finland or Sweden, how to demand that the requirements that guarantee the preservation of immovable property be met, how they can be met and if they are not met, what can be done. In the Commission, representatives of the Ministry of Justice, who are the authors of the draft, found it possible to abandon the apartment and the local government can solve these problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U190	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U191	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Dear Commission waitress, You presented these proposals, which were supported by the Commission. However, one of the proposals made by the Central Party Group, which the Commission did not support, concerns the Board of Appeals for Housing Cooperatives. Our idea was to create an analogy for the Labour Dispute Committee. The problems encountered in housing cooperatives should not be brought to court first, but could be a pre-trial institution to help resolve these issues. There are a lot of problems, and if they all got to court, it would be a pretty heavy burden on the court, both in terms of time and finances. One argument why you did not support this proposal in the Commission was that the Labour Dispute Committee would not work properly and that at least half of the solutions in the Labour Dispute Committee would be appealed to the Court. This is not true, in fact only 5% of the issues that will be resolved by the Labour Dispute Committee will be brought to court. What is the real reason why you didn't support the Central Party's proposal to set up a House Association Board?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U192	Thank you for your question. It was certainly not argued in the Commission that the Labour Dispute Committee was not working. It was said that very many cases, which have been the final decision of the Labour Dispute Committee, are being appealed. That's the problem. Rather, the discussion was about whether it would solve the problems if we set up such an alternative committee. The reason why the Committee on Legal Affairs rejected this proposal was that such an amendment could only be made if there was a law governing the activities of that committee or if its text was part of the amendment. As we know, the Riigikogu did not find the support of the proposal to oblige the government to develop such a draft. This was the main reason why this proposal was not supported this time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U193	Andrus Island, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U194	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear waitress, According to the draft law, the establishment of the cooperative statute is optional. Did the Commission also discuss the possibility that this would be mandatory and, if discussed, what were the arguments?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U195	Margus Hanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U196	Thank you for your question. A number of amendments were tabled which provided that the statutes of the building management company could be made mandatory. Why are the words'may be' currently left in the draft law on the statute? The reason is that the bill regulates the activities of both a housing association operating in a double house and a housing association operating in an apartment building with 100 or more apartments, but it is very difficult to make the statutes mandatory in small double houses. This was the reason why the building management company was left to choose whether it wanted the cooperative to have a statute. This voluntary aspect was left here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U197	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! Did the Commission also discuss the proposal of the Association of Housing Cooperatives to set the minimum temperature required in apartments?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U198	Thank you. This issue was in the debate, and we also had such a proposal. But we found that the law is very difficult to fix, which should be a minimum or a maximum temperature. We found that the law should stipulate that the owner of the dwelling must ensure that the dwelling is preserved. Apartment buildings often have different conditions, some have thicker inner walls, the temperature may be lower. In order to ensure that ownership is preserved, different requirements need to be established at different locations. Precisely fixed by law is very difficult. This amendment therefore did not receive the support of the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U199	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U200	Thank you. I will continue on the subject initiated by my colleague Andrus Saare, and I am also interested in the articles of association. I see that the Commission has supported Amendment 9, which says that the property is governed by the law, by the statute of the housing association, by the agreements of the owners of the apartments and by the interests of the owners of the apartments. How do you interpret this in the light of the fact that the housing company does not have to have a statute?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U201	Thank you. If you read the text of the amendment, it becomes clear that the purpose of the amendment is that if the building management company has a statute, it must be complied with. It is an internal document and should be respected. If the building management company does not have a statute, the building management company shall comply with the law and agreements of common interest. That is what this change means. If there is a statute, it must be observed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U202	Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U203	Thank you, Mr President. Is it known how many apartments are estimated to have empty apartments owned either by private individuals or by the state? How much could it cost to maintain them? If we do not impose a heat standard, then we can go to court, because reasonable temperature is a vague concept, its reasonableness can also be brought to court and very unreasonable claims can be made in court. After all, half of Estonia is empty.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U204	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U205	Thank you for your question. No such statistics have been produced by the country. This is certainly a very serious problem, especially in small settlements outside county centres, where apartment buildings are located. This is, I think, the challenge that lies ahead in the coming years, how to solve the problems that arise in the emptying villages, when one apartment building is half empty and the other one is half empty. Reasonable solutions must be found here. For example, you can solve by gathering the inhabitants of both houses together and heating a house where these people will live. People's problems need to be solved. This work is ahead of us, and that is a very topical question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U206	Dear waitress, Unfortunately, you didn't answer my first question. I'm interested in how this cooperative created by force, or state or municipal authority, will function. How does it come to be either a board or a ruler if the residents simply don't come together? Please answer this question! But I have another question, too. A support group for housing cooperatives has been formed in the Riigikogu, led by my colleague Hanson, the vice-chairman of which is my colleague Borodich. Was this support group also involved in discussing this draft, did it make proposals and were they taken into account? How about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U207	Thank you for your question. I will answer the second question first. Mr Hanson actively participated in the work of the Committee on Legal Affairs, took part in certain meetings and added substance and weight to the draft law with his thoughts. It was very helpful. With regard to the first question of how the state will create housing associations and how it will work in real life, this bill proposes that any apartment building that does not elect or does not have a management board be designated as a ruler. This is the person who will solve the problems of this housing company in everyday life. Whether it is a legal person or a natural person is up to the building management company. It would certainly be good for the state to see an active housing cooperative in each house, with an active management board, but it must be taken into account that we do not have a fully developed owner society. Cooperatives in certain places are probably not going to work, but the authors of the bill have foreseen that these problems could be resolved by the appointment of a ruler.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U208	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U209	Thank you. Good colleague! Many sections of this bill take account of the areas where the apartment market is more developed, Tallinn, Pärnu, perhaps Tartu. But we know that half of Estonia does not have such a market. We also know how low income housing companies have. But the law requires auditing, requires that reports are submitted to the register within six months. What happens if this work has not been completed within six months and the data required by law is not provided to the register?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U210	Thank you. There were no amendments to the audit visit to the Commission. As far as the substance of this draft law is concerned and the reasons why it was put forward in the first place, it must be said that three laws are currently basically governing this area. In order to have greater legal clarity about housing associations and associations, the laws in this area have been codified and merged into one. It is certainly a very ambitious objective to solve the problems in this area in a single law. It should be taken into account that this law must deal with even houses, but also large apartment buildings, where there may be a hundred apartments, apartment buildings located in Kohtla-Järve, Abja-Paluojas or Mõisaküla, but also in Tallinn or Pärnu, where the market value of apartments may vary by dozens, even hundreds of times. The problems are very different and it is very difficult to find common ground. As a result, the draft law has sought to create a framework that could give housing associations an initial chance to move forward and solve their problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U211	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U212	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! The association of housing associations was certainly involved in the preparation of the draft. Did they have any suggestions that were not taken into account? You did not give a direct overview of the Commission's work. Perhaps you can point out some fundamental proposals that they have put forward and which you did not find necessary or possible to take into account in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U213	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U214	Thank you for your question. Urmas Mardi from the Association of Apartment Cooperatives was actively involved in the discussion of the draft. In the past, the Union has been trying to find a compromise with the Ministry of Justice on what this bill might look like. This draft has been prepared for a very long time and the Commission has received various proposals. The main proposal of the Association of Housing Cooperatives was the Statute, whether the statutes of the Housing Cooperatives should be mandatory. The problem was primarily in even houses. Although at the beginning the Commission considered that the statute could be mandatory in large apartment buildings, but since it is a bill that regulates both twin buildings and apartment buildings with a hundred apartments, it was considered reasonable to leave it optional.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U215	Thank you. I understand that the number of housing associations is estimated to double. It can be assumed that those houses that currently do not have a housing company are more problematic. The Commission decided not to support the Centre Party's idea of an appeal committee. What are the options for these houses to solve problems outside the housing company? What are the possibilities under this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U216	Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U217	Thank you for your question. It's always the best way to deal with each other. We have asked the Ministry of Justice to do explaining and training work when this bill comes into force, to explain to people what could be causing problems. In particular, there is a lack of information, there are several laws and different interpretations. The subject of training is actually a and o. Training should help people to solve problems. But we hope that by training and consulting, we will help existing and emerging housing associations and thus eliminate a great many problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U218	Thank you. I'm coming back to the appeal committee. You don't support its creation right now, you think it's not right. But suppose I'm the owner of the apartment, my housing company wants to take out a loan, and I'm against it. How long will this process take me to sue this case, and how much hope can I do anything at all? Maybe you can bring out those deadlines and say there's not really anything you can do.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U219	Margus Hanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U220	Thank you. There was no such amendment directly in the Commission, and there was a debate on the committee. Personally, however, I support, in particular, the conciliation procedure or the conciliation committee in order to provide more assistance to housing cooperatives and thus to resolve problems. At the moment, we often adopt the law and make people argue with each other. The question, however, is what happens after the dispute is over. If one party gets the right, then the other side often wants to show that it is him who is right, and this argument cannot be disputed. That's more of a problem. Above all, reconciliation is needed. A solution should be found to how to heat houses and solve these problems. If a decision is taken, the loan taken to heat the house must go to the right place to fix the house and solve the problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U221	Thank you. I'm coming to the deadline for the law's entry into force. The Act states that this Act will enter into force on 1 January 2018. So far, there are three full years of budget. When the Minister introduced this draft to us at first reading in the autumn, he expressed the opinion that if processing the draft in the Riigikogu goes relatively quickly, it may be possible to bring the date of entry into force forward. Now the process has gone quite quickly. That is why I have the question of whether the Commission discussed bringing the entry into force forward and under what circumstances this deadline was maintained.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U222	Thank you very much for the good question. This question also arose in the Committee on Legal Affairs. We asked the Minister of Justice why such a long date of entry into force was foreseen. The Minister replied that the main reason is that part of the draft law deals with the electronic register of housing associations, which takes time to create and requires budgetary resources. At the moment, these funds are not foreseen, they are foreseen for 2018. We hope that if this bill is adopted as a law, these funds will be foreseen earlier, that the register of housing associations will be established more quickly and that this deadline will shift significantly forward. Perhaps the deadline will also be changed and brought forward. I do not rule out that amendments may still come in these three years, because there are so many problems in the air that this bill will certainly not solve. For example, there are a lot of problems in apartment buildings with commercial premises on the lower floors. At the moment, we have focused only on general matters in order to find a compromise to solve major problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U223	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U224	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Dear waitress, You answered Mr Allik's question that those housing associations in which no management is elected would be called a ruler. Am I correct to understand that the determinant or denominator of this ruler is a local government? Has the local authority agreed to this task, i.e. have you negotiated an alliance of cities and rural municipalities? If dealing with this entails additional responsibilities for local authorities, will the state, as the Constitution requires, provide local authorities with the resources to do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U225	Thank you for your question. In fact, the goal is that the building management company appoints its own manager. This obligation is assigned to the general meeting of the building management company.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U226	Good waitress, thank you for your report and your answers. No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? It's a call. I'm opening negotiations. The speech chair of the Riigikogu, Yana Toomi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U227	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not gonna talk about how good this law is. Indeed, there are good things in this law and he solves many problems. But there are also shortcomings that cannot be satisfied with. The first deficit in the eyes of the Central Party Group is that it has not taken into account our proposal to set up a committee for the appeal of housing associations. The rapporteur for the Commission said that conciliation would be enough. This is not true because, as we know, in order to reconcile, the agreement of both sides of the conflict is required. However, if both parties agree, there is no conflict in substance. So, unfortunately, in the case of housing associations, the conciliation procedure does not work. It doesn't work very well at all, to be honest, but it doesn't work at all in the case of housing companies. We all know that housing companies are quite a source of conflict. There are all kinds of conflicts. I remember that from my reporter days. Each newspaper has a journalist who deals with the problems of housing associations from morning to evening. There will be a lot of complaints from cooperatives about conflicts between neighbours, about violations of the general meeting rules, about borrowing, or about anything. The only way for people to defend their rights is to go to court, which, firstly, is not cheap and, secondly, takes a lot of time. Even if you win in court, the train is already gone, the loans are on top of the house and the decision is taken. Moreover, if you come victoriously to the general meeting with the judgment, it is not excluded that another general meeting will be convened the next day, which will essentially cancel the judgment. The second aspect is that these litigations burden our judicial system, which is already very slow. When we discussed this problem in our group, Mr Pikamäe, he was also in favour of such an appeal committee being set up. It is a great pity that the Government and the Commission did not support this proposal. We were contradicted by the fact that the Labour Dispute Committee is essentially unable to cope with its tasks. It was also argued that the decisions of the Labour Dispute Committee are very often challenged in court. That's not true. In fact, the Labour Dispute Commission is doing an excellent job and only 5% of its decisions are contested in the middle. Believe me, the courts of first instance are very happy that there is a labour dispute committee. You can easily draw a parallel here. The second thing I want to draw attention to in this draft is that we are forced to create more thousands of housing associations, especially in those houses where no housing cooperative has been formed to this day. This has not been done because people have not been able to reach an agreement between themselves. It is clear that this creates a number of conflicts, which once again increases the pressure on the courts of first instance. The next aspect worth talking about is that there are not only large cities in Estonia, such as Tallinn, Tartu and Pärnu, but also all kinds of former collective farms and sovhoos, where there are quite a few apartment houses. We've all seen houses with 20 apartments, but there's only one apartment where there's a woman. So he's going to form a condo association with himself and manage the whole house. We're basically pinning this whole household on him instead of providing him with some kind of help. I'm making sure my time is running out. I won't talk any longer. With regard to the above, the Central Party Group proposes to suspend the second reading of the Apartment Ownership and Housing Association Act 462. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U228	Thank you. I'm asking for the Riigikogu's speech chair, Margus Hanson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U229	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It is really pleased that the draft law, which has been prepared for a long time, has been repeatedly examined with the parties and has been on several rounds of coordination, has been moving on quite rapidly in the Riigikogu and has reached this hall for a second reading. The Committee on Legal Affairs has had a thorough discussion and consideration of the proposed amendments. It is likely that the draft prepared by the government has become even better, and the operating standards and limits of the owners and housing associations, as well as the rights, obligations and responsibilities, are more precisely shaped into the law area and taking different interests into account. I therefore suspend only one amendment tabled by the Estonian Association of Apartments Associations. It concerns the minimum indoor temperature requirement for accommodation. This issue has now been resolved in the draft in such a way as to ensure the preservation of the subject-matter of the co-ownership and the use of other special property items for their purpose and without excessive costs. This issue can be approached from a wide range of aspects, such as damage to the cabin, heating bills for neighbouring apartments, and why not from environmental and energy saving aspects, but perhaps from another perspective. Perhaps a different approach should be taken here to housing property used as a dwelling and to housing property used as a non-housing space, such as a garage. Of course, an unheated cold dwelling must not cause the water pipes to freeze or other common property to be damaged in a cooperative house, but in order to avoid this, it is not necessary to constantly require an 18-degree room temperature in a neighbouring apartment, less is enough, such as 5 degrees. At the same time, it is clear that the cold apartment is heated by neighbors and their heating bills are higher. According to a study of scientists at Tallinn University of Technology, for example, a heat transfer will start through the concrete wall in the panel building if the temperature of the rooms varies by a few degrees. Due to the current accounting principles of warm consumption, it is therefore fair to require a certain temperature to be maintained in the living quarters. The temperature that is as close as possible to the average temperature should be maintained. Not completely heated, in an apartment in the middle of a panelhouse, even in the harshest weather, the room temperature does not fall below zero, maybe not even less than 10 degrees, so the apartment is heated by its neighbors. However, if the principles of calculating the cost of heating in central heating cooperative buildings were to be made from square meters to temperature-based, it would not be necessary to impose a temperature requirement. According to the temperature-based accounting principle, heating costs are measured separately for each dwelling and based on the thermometer of that dwelling, rather than according to the amount of heat emitted from the radiator, as is generally the case for new calculation systems. In such a case, the owner of the dwelling will also have no problem with the heat from his room being used to heat a cold neighbor's apartment, because he still pays for the temperature he is comfortable with in his own apartment, 20 or 25 degrees. The introduction of such a measurement system should stimulate eco-thinking owners to save energy, while cooperatives should be given the opportunity to think about obtaining a new measurement system for the purpose of fair distribution of heat costs, which helps to save heating costs. A healthy society wins because energy savings are obvious. However, I would like to discuss how the law ensures that oven-fired apartments compensate their neighbours for the costs of an empty and cold apartment, the so-called excessive costs. But it's probably from here on out. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U230	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Dear colleagues, we will begin the examination of the 462 amendments to the draft. 19 amendments have been received. The first amendment is tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The position of the Steering Committee is that the proposal should be disregarded. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U231	Thank you, manager. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U232	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. Dear colleagues, I will vote on the first amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 26), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 30 members of the Riigikogu with one abstention. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 2 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 3 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is that the proposal should be disregarded. Under § 106 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, the proposal is not to be voted on. Amendment 4 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; this proposal has not been taken into account by the commission. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U233	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U234	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 4 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 25), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 33 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 5 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is that this proposal should be disregarded. Amendment 6 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 7 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 8 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is that this proposal should be disregarded. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U235	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U236	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 8, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 23), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 23 votes to 33 with 1 abstention. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 9 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is that this proposal should be fully taken into account. Amendment 10 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is that this proposal should be disregarded. Amendment 10. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U237	I would like to vote on Amendment 10.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U238	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 10 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote. 20 members of the Riigikogu voted against and 36 against, with no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 11 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is that this proposal should be disregarded. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U239	Thank you. I would also like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U240	Thank you! Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 11, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 25), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 33 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 12 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is that this proposal should be disregarded. According to § 106 (2) of our Home and Working Procedures Act, this proposal is not to be voted on. Amendment 13 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is that this proposal should be disregarded. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U241	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U242	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote the 13th amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote. 27 votes to 34 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 14 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is that this proposal should be disregarded. According to our Home and Working Procedures Act, this proposal is not to be voted on. Amendment 15 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group; the position of the commission is that this proposal should be disregarded. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U243	Thank you. I would like to vote on Amendment 15.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U244	Thank you! Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote the 15th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 30), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 32 members of the Riigikogu with two abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 16 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group; this proposal has not been taken into account by the commission. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U245	Thank you. I would like to vote on Amendment 16.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U246	Thank you! Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote the 16th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 29), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 34 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 17 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 18 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 19 has been tabled by the lead committee. There are no other amendments. Good fellows! The Estonian Central Party Group has proposed to the Riigikogu Board. The Group of the Estonian Central Party proposes to interrupt the second reading of the Bill 462 on Apartment Ownership and Housing Associations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading. Due to our Rules of Procedure, we must vote on the proposal of the Central Party Group. Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the Estonian Centre Party Group to interrupt the second reading of Bill 462 of the Apartment Ownership and Housing Association Act. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 31), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 36 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The commission has proposed that the second reading be discontinued. The second reading of Bill 462 has been completed and the sixth item has also been dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U247	Let's move on to item seven. We will continue to read the second reading of the draft law amending and implementing the law on law enforcement initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask Kalle Laaneti, Vice-Chairman of the Legal Affairs Committee, to speak to the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U248	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, For the sake of history, I note that the preparation of this draft law, i.e. the implementing law, began several years ago at the Ministry of Justice, the year was then 2007. It is now 2014. This shows how much time it may take to prepare one bill, not to mention how much time it takes to change the paradigm and what it will bring. The Committee on Legal Affairs prepared for the continuation of the second reading at three meetings: 13 January, 20 January and 10 February. On 10 February, Kalle Laanet, Andres Anvelt, Igor Gräzin, Jüri Morozov, Kalle Jents, Marika Tuus-Laul, Peeter Võsa, Siim Kabrits and Margus Hanson, who was Valdo Randpere's alternate and left at 11.40 a.m., and Commission officials Linnar Liivamägi and Raini Laide, attended the meeting. Hanno Pevkur was also invited. No amendments were received by the deadline for submitting amendments, but a certain number of proposals from the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior came from the Committee on Legal Affairs. We held discussions, and following the technical coordination of the officials of the permanent committees of the Riigikogu, certain errors were corrected. A total of 14 amendments were initiated by the Committee on Legal Affairs after that. I will tell you about the most important amendments. One of the hottest points of discussion was when a law enforcement body can take a drunken adult to his place of residence or stay or sober at police detention or detention. The draft law had previously proposed that this could happen in the face of an immediate significant threat. During the serious discussions held in the Committee on Legal Affairs, it was decided to exclude the 'alternative' because 'alternative hazard' means a situation where an irregularity is already taking place or there is a high probability that it will begin immediately. We thought that if we left that word in the 'alternate', it would give the law enforcement body a chance at a certain point in time when information would arrive, for example, on the phone 110 or 112, not to react. Amendments 3, 4, 10 and 14 are interlinked and serve the objectives of improving child protection. At present, the law provides that, when a child is in danger, the law enforcement body in particular has a duty to react and turn to a social service worker to take the child into custody until the threat has passed. However, we know that it is extremely difficult to get in touch with a social service worker at night or on weekends. The purpose of the amendment is to give the law enforcement body an obligation to react and bring the child to safety. At the same time, of course, the obligation to turn to a social worker to take up its duties remains. Regulation by law is particularly important when we talk about delivering a child away from the family. This is linked to an important violation of fundamental rights and it is certainly wise to regulate it at the level of the law. The purpose of the fifth amendment is to give the local authority the right to define the places where alcohol consumption is considered unsuitable for the purpose of using these places. This will provide an opportunity to implement the law more flexibly. The Committee on Legal Affairs shared the view that this was important. The sixth amendment relates to a large extent to trading companies. Paragraphs 68 and 69 of the Alcohol Act prohibit the sale of alcohol to a person who is drunk. The expression 'drinking state' has always raised questions, it is not clear how the seller can determine whether a person is drunk or not. It was decided to use the term 'intoxicated state'. The ninth amendment follows from the proposal of the Ministry of Agriculture that the police, as a law enforcement body, should be a national supervisory body within the meaning of the Animal Protection Act. However, the Commission's view was that in the event of an offence, such as animal abuse, the law enforcement body would intervene immediately. There is therefore no reason to amend the law, according to which the police would be a national supervisory authority within the meaning of the Animal Protection Act. Amendment 11 concerns the amendment of § 29 of the Advertising Act. This concerns the transposition of the Consumer Credit Directive. The Commission asked why it had to be discussed in the framework of this draft. However, since the European Commission has already opened infringement proceedings and this draft also amends the advertising law, it was wise to introduce this provision into this law through an amendment. Amendments 12 and 13 concern matters of national supervision and, specifically, the application of the law. So what did the Commission decide? The Committee on Legal Affairs decided to take full account of all these amendments. It was decided to stick to the decisions taken by the Committee on Legal Affairs at its meeting on 27 January and to refer the draft to second reading on the plenary agenda by Wednesday 12 February, with a proposal to close the second reading. When the second reading is completed, our proposal is to make the third reading on Wednesday, 19 February. Our proposal is then to put the draft to the final vote. These decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U249	Thank you very much, Mr Kalle Laane. Let's get to the questions. Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U250	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, More than 150 amendments have been made to the law. You could say it's a little revolution in this sphere. Don't you think it's not enough of the three or four months until 1 July, until the law comes into force? Anyone who should comply with this law and enforce it may not understand what has been written here, and this could lead to minor failures.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U251	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U252	Thank you for that question. I guess I had such a slight suspicion and hesitation in the committee, to be honest. I asked this question to the representatives of the Ministry of Justice. But I know that a small group has been set up in the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior to lead the resolution of these new laws, both the law of law and the law of its implementation, to those authorities that will come into contact with these laws. To be honest, I have made an offer to the Academy of Home Affairs (this may not be very common) that I am willing to go to the teachers there to explain the discussions that have taken place in this House and the reasons behind the decisions so that it would be easier to understand what was the legislator's point in writing one or another of the legal provisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U253	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! Undoubtedly, the amendment made to § 1 concerning the subject of child protection is extremely important and necessary. At the same time, opportunities and conditions across Estonia are completely different. Cooperation with the police, for example, is excellent in my home town of Viljandi. But let's think about weekends in a small town or a town where there are no shelters, shelters for children, etc. How real is it that this requirement can be met across Estonia and where can this child be placed? Municipal child welfare workers are happy to help, but they must have a place to place the child. How real is it that this proposal is actually being implemented?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U254	Thank you for this question and for your comment. I don't know how real it is today. Well, practice has to show it. However, this amendment certainly serves precisely the purpose of ensuring that the child is not left in danger, that he is certainly brought out of this situation and that he can remain in the custody of the law enforcement authorities as long as it is absolutely necessary. That is the purpose of this amendment. I certainly hope that there will be good cooperation between law enforcement bodies, shelters, non-profit organisations and local authorities in other counties, and these problems will be solved.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U255	Please, colleague Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U256	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! If the law is passed, but only then will it have to be understood, explained, taught, etc., is the law of high quality? That's my question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U257	To be honest, very many provisions and thoughts of this law have already been transferred to the Police and Border Guard Act. The law that came into force in 2010 has transposed a great many provisions. There is always a danger that one person or another will interpret the law because of his or her discretion. But it's up to all of us to explain this law to the teachers, and the teachers need to explain it to the staff. This is our joint task, I think.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U258	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Kalle Laane. I will open negotiations and call on my colleague, Marika Tuus-Laul, to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U259	President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, I came here to talk about a proposal for an amendment concerning consumer credit advertising and indirectly regulation of the high-speed credit market, which amends the advertising law instead. Of course, the question arises as to what this is about, the law of law. You're right to ask, because you don't. In addition to the total number of 152 amendments proposed on the draft law on law enforcement that came to the Commission last summer and was withdrawn from the agenda last week, this is another cluster bill, where we correct the errors of other laws, one can say, knowingly made errors. We dealt with the European Union directive on responsible lending in the Committee on Legal Affairs a year ago, which concerns, among other things, advertising of consumer credit. We transposed this directive in such a way that Estonia introduced more relaxed requirements for advertising consumer credit, i.e. advertising of fast loans, than the European directive required of us. We have defied the requirements of advertising that protect consumers. We know that many people in Estonia have borrowed themselves by taking fast loans. Thousands of predatory percentages that the lender takes from a client have led many families into loan slavery. Since we did not properly transpose this directive and allowed ourselves a more liberal approach, the European Commission has recently launched a formal infringement procedure against Estonia. The current Advertising Act states that any advertisement informing the willingness to grant consumer credit or to mediate such contracts must indicate the percentage of charge in the form of a typical example. The European Commission has taken the view that this wording of the law is too general and is contrary to the Council of the European Union Directive. In the future, Estonia will be required to include very specific information for the consumer so that it is easier for the borrower to orientate. The exact interest rate, the upper limit of the credit amount to be used, the percentage of charge, the duration of the contract, the specific price of the service, both for immediate charges and for hire-purchase, and much more, in the form of a typical example, must be indicated. So, at present, there are minimum requirements for advertising financial loans and this amendment tightens them up, which is, of course, a very good thing, but it is a pity that this has not been done in the past. Now the Justice Department is in a hurry. In order to avoid or mitigate the negative consequences of infringement proceedings, national law needs to be amended as a matter of urgency. It is so urgent that Minister Pevkur asked for these amendments to be dealt with in the context of some pending drafts rather than a separate draft law. The situation looks familiar. I remember how much was debated in the Commission on these issues during the summer. The Centre Party Group also made its amendments, which did not pass, but now there is an urgent correction of the errors, i.e. we are correcting the deliberately committed breach, in the context of the second draft, this time not in the gender equality law, but in the context of the law of order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U260	Thank you very much. Please, colleague Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U261	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, We've turned this law enforcement bill around like a lukewarm soup, one way and the other way. I can't tell you if the current result is so good now. If you draw such a parallel that you feel the good work of the boatmaster because he first assembles a boat that holds water, can we take the same view of lawmaking? We've worked hard, but we didn't get the law safe the first time, and the second time, we didn't get hold of it. Listen, the fact that almost a few hundred amendments have been tabled is a bit of a saying for themselves, and 141 of them are currently on the table. (Interjection by E.E.: What, 141? 14 After all!) There is no way to call it a quality job. I understand they were in a hurry. But do you have to hurry like that? Should You Sacrifice Quality? We could involve specialists a little more carefully, then perhaps with a little lighter effort we could get together with a properly functioning law that also holds water. I think the lack of specialists is the main reason here. If ministries and authorities are manned either by partybroilers or simply by individuals loyal to the power party and other personal qualities are considered to be insignificant, then about the same kind of shit we will continue to discuss here. This is why this law is so poor: constant haste, no specialists involved. If we adopt this law and we have to start teaching people, we have to look in different laws to explain one law, which should be unambiguous and understandable to all, more or less to all readers, then, forgive me, it is far from quality in any case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U262	Mr Kalle Laane.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U263	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I came here to talk about this rush. When I spoke to Mr Lang at the door of the hall, I reminded him of when the law of law, or the basic law of the matter, started to be discussed. My sources said it was 1997, and Rein said it was 2003. If we look at either of these options or look at the implementing law that started to be dealt with in 2007, there can be little talk about haste. Of course, society is evolving, there are new problems that need to be corrected, that is all right. But the paradigm change, which is caused by the Law Enforcement Act and its implementation in Estonian law enforcement law, must one day have a line under it so that the implementers can be made aware of at least the thing that has gotten between the covers. I hope that we will succeed and that Estonia will be even safer in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U264	Thank you very much, Kalle Laane. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. Let us go to the amendments. There are 14 amendments to the draft law, we will review them in order. The first amendment is from the lead committee, fully taken into account. The second and third amendments have been taken fully into account by the commission. The fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh amendments have been taken fully into account by the commission. The eighth, ninth and tenth amendments have been taken fully into account by the commission. Amendments 11, 12, 13 and 14 have been tabled and fully taken into account by the commission. Ladies and gentlemen, We have examined all the amendments. Second reading of Bill 424 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U265	Let's go to the next item. The second reading of the draft State Budget Act 513 initiated by the Government of the Republic continues. For a presentation, please, the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, Sven Sester.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U266	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will give you an overview of the information related to the continuation of the second reading of Draft State Budget Act 513. The new draft State Budget Act was handed over by the Government of the Republic to the Riigikogu on 21 October 2013 and the date of entry into force was set at 1 January 2014. The following reasons led to the draft act being presented as such. Directive 2011/85/EU of the Council of the European Union, which entered into force in December 2011, obliges Member States to determine the application of uniform rules of general government in order to ensure fiscal discipline in the general government sector. The follow-up to the directive, the so-called fiscal agreement, provides for a rule of budgetary balance and an automatic adjustment mechanism for the general government, which is automatically triggered by deviations from the criteria under European Union law, i.e. the medium-term budgetary objective or the adjustment path towards it. According to the Treaty, the budgetary balance rules should preferably be fixed in the national constitution or law on the basis of which the annual budgets are adopted. In order to transpose the Directive into national law, it is necessary to amend the current State Budget Act, as the previous State Budget Act was adopted in 1999, as it was last amended in 2003 and therefore the regulation is outdated and the possibilities for implementing budgeting developments are limited. In this context, a new State Budget Act (the so-called Basic Act) was drawn up in order to regulate the area in a comprehensive and timely manner and to organise the financial management of the state. I'll stop for the purposes of the law for a moment. In particular, the aim is to establish budgetary rules, taking into account the balance requirement of the structural balance of the government, to impose an exceptional credit constraint on the local government unit due to the limits set by the European Union for the government budget position and to develop the regulations of the economic forecast and the financial forecast. The preparation of the national budgetary strategy shall provide for the approval of expenditure ceilings, specify the content requirements of the budgetary strategy and the financing plan, organise strategic management and create preconditions for the introduction of an activity-based budget. The aim is also to supplement and harmonise the rules on the management of cash flows, to consolidate the limits on short-term and long-term sovereign debt and to update the regulations on the cash reserve and the stabilisation reserve. I will provide you with information about the previous procedure in the Riigikogu. The first reading of the draft act took place on 6 November. Following this, 34 amendments were received from the Group of the Social Democratic Party, as well as opinions from the National Audit Office, the Estonian Employers' Confederation, the Constitutional Committee and the European Central Bank and proposals from the Ministry of Finance. On the basis of these, several changes were made to the draft, the most important of which concerned the regulation of strategic development documents (including the inclusion of an exception for constitutional institutions in the preparation of the development plan for the area of government), the submission of the state's budget strategy to the Riigikogu without delay after approval by the Government of the Republic, the independent decision of the constitutional institutions to adopt an activity-based budget, the addition of sources of the stabilisation reserve to the national unconsolidated cash surplus and the determination of the values of the figures underlying the equalisation fund and the support fund to the state budget. The second reading of the bill took place in this Chamber on 15 January 2014. The Committee on Finance decided to interrupt the second reading with a view to further discussing the problems of the draft and drawing up new amendments. The draft was prepared by the Committee on Finance for the continuation of the second reading on 28 and 30 January and also on 10 and 11 February. A total of 29 amendments were received from members of the Riigikogu, political groups and committees, including the Social Democratic Party Group 22, the Riigikogu member Andres Herkel 4 and the Riigikogu members Neeme Suur and Rannar Vassilyev 3. The Committee on Finance received an additional opinion from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, including on the constitutionality of the provisions relating to local government units, a letter from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on problems concerning the budgetary procedure of legal persons governed by public law, the opinion of the Committee on Culture on § 84 of the draft and the opinion of the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu on the draft. On the basis of the amendments, opinions and letters received and the problems discussed in the Commission before the second reading, the Committee on Monetary Affairs prepared 38 amendments for the continuation of the second reading. Explanations of the proposals can be found in the list of amendments. The draft has also made linguistic and technical changes since the second reading. The proposals made by the Social Democratic Party Group largely overlapd with the proposals they had tabled for the second reading of the draft. Looking at all 29 amendments tabled, the Committee on Monetary Affairs has taken into account the two in full and the five in substance or in part. The other amendments were rejected by the Commission for the reasons above: Amendment 5 The balance rule represents a significant constraint on the activities of government and other government institutions. The proposal would lead to a vague construction rather than a specific numerical requirement in the law: where necessary, the activities of other institutions will be limited, not by the specific requirement of the law, but by the objective set by the government in the budget strategy. Amendment 6 The legal entity of the central government has no medium-term budgetary objective. The proposal would require each authority to set a budgetary position target, which would be unnecessarily complicated. Amendment 7. The draft provides that the legal entities of the central government are to be subject to the requirement of a net debt and a financial plan by law or law. According to paragraph 2 (2), social security funds are not legal persons of the central government. The Health Insurance Fund and the Unemployment Insurance Fund are part of the social security funds and are not subject to the requirement to present a net debt and a financial plan. The membership or non-membership of persons in one group or another is not determined by this draft, but according to the regulation referred to in § 2 (1), Statistics Estonia. Pursuant to § 5 (2) and (3), § 9 and § 10 of the draft law, those rules must be laid down in the law governing the activity of the person concerned for the purposes of applying the rules to legal persons of the central government. The activities of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund and the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund are governed by laws on them, to which these rules are not introduced. Amendment 8. The wording of the proposal does not change the process, the decision is taken by the Government of the Republic, the analysis is submitted by the Minister of Finance. Amendment 9. The relaxation of the compensation mechanism will lead to an excessive prolongation of the period of compensation for the deficit. The annual compensation requirement is the same as 0.5% of GDP in the draft, by which the Stability and Growth Pact requires a country to improve its budgetary position once it has not yet reached its medium-term budgetary objective. Amendment 13. Financial decisions have been consolidated into the budgetary strategy of the state and the state budget process, balancing the needs of the development plans and the possibilities of public revenue. Decision-making by individual development plans would not ensure that all expenditure decisions are taken at the same time. At the same time, it is possible to compare cost alternatives. Development plans have a longer perspective than the national budgetary strategy. Funding volumes longer than four years are questionable. The draft provides a forecast of the cost of the development plan for the entire duration of the development plan. In addition, the implementation plan must be presented at the same time for the first four years in accordance with the possibilities of the current State Budget Act. Amendment 14. The development plans of the governing areas are a matter of the self-regulation of the Government of the Republic. Financial expenditure is also currently included in the financial plan of the development plan for the area of government, i.e. in the application of the state budget strategy. Amendment 16. The proposal would be approved by the Riigikogu instead of the Government of the Republic, which does not comply with the principle of separation of powers. Sectoral development plans concern the implementation of policies that are within the competence of the Government of the Republic. The proposal of the Monetary Committee stipulates that the task of the Riigikogu is to draw up and adopt the basic principles of policy as a strategic development document. The main elements of the policy are a development document that defines the vision, the national target and the priority trends of the policy area. Amendment 19. Discussion of reports on the implementation of development plans in the Riigikogu does not exclude the current regulation. The state's activities are covered by the state's annual reports covering the entire state's activities, including those contained in the development plans. Amendment 20. Development plans for governance areas are ministerial instruments and are implemented through action plans. The action plan as a whole is approved by the Government of the Republic. Amendments 21 and 22. The current regulation that it is largely regulated by a single regulation of the Government of the Republic is sufficient. Amendment 26. According to § 115 of the Constitution, the state budget must include all revenue collected by the State, whether or not it is passed on. The Income Tax Act and the Land Tax Act use the expression "receipt to a local government unit', which means that the local government is the final recipient of the funds. This does not preclude these taxes being included in the state budget as transferable taxes. Amendment 47. The restructuring of the stabilisation reserve will take place with the aim of using it to finance crisis situations, as it may not be possible for the country to commit itself quickly and in an appropriate volume in a crisis situation. All significant investments by the State must be reflected in the state budget and their financing will be guaranteed from the state budget, including borrowing if necessary. Amendments 50, 63 and 64. The date has been chosen in such a way that the proposal of the Health Insurance Fund can be taken into account in the summer economic forecast, i.e. the budgetary process. Informally, the results of the summer economic forecast will be submitted to the Health Insurance Fund at the beginning of August, leaving sufficient time for the Health Insurance Fund Council to submit its proposal on the budgetary position. The Finance Committee, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, submitted a number of amendments to the second reading. The most important of these are: A separate Board of Governors will be set up at Eesti Pank in order not to entrust the tasks of the Board of Governors to Eesti Pank. The amendment follows from the opinion of the European Central Bank on the draft. As a type of strategic development document, the basic principles of policy are also set out. It is a development document at the level of the Riigikogu, which is by its very nature the most long-term, national values-bearing, long-term and comprehensive development document, which describes the state's development vision in priority areas and whose adoption is the exclusive right of the Riigikogu. It is stipulated that constitutional institutions are not obliged to draw up strategic development documents. A provision is added that the State Budget Act cannot include other provisions amending or repealing the Act. It shall be ensured that the values of the figures underlying the distribution of the equalisation fund are determined by the national budget. In order to increase the stability of the financing of local government units, the Law on the Financial Management of Local Government establishes a formula for the Equalisation Fund. This principle will enter into force in 2017. It is stipulated that all the costs of the state functions of local governments must be functionally distinguished in the state budget adopted by the Riigikogu. In order to ensure the independence of constitutional institutions, the draft introduces an exception according to which, like ministries, they are bound by 50% of the cost ceiling only if the Riigikogu has not determined otherwise with the state budget. It is stipulated that, in the event of disruptions or restrictions in the payment of the State budget, disbursements to the constitutional institutions must be guaranteed. The possibility for the Minister of Finance to temporarily limit disbursements when the revenue from the state budget is less than planned will be restored. The regulation of the financial control system will be amended, leaving to the head of each body the right to decide on the specific measures to build up the financial control system. Paragraph 84 (7) to (12) is deleted from this draft. These are provisions that increase the composition of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council by one member, appointed by the Minister of Culture, who must be an expert in cultural funding according to the draft. The draft has neither identified nor analysed the substantive effects of the changes in the Council's composition. The bill introduces a number of amendments to the Financial Management Act of the local government unit, which organise the system of financial rules. It is stipulated that the draft state budget submitted to the Riigikogu must comply with the published laws and before submitting the state budget in the Government of the Republic to the Riigikogu. It is stipulated that the proposed amendment to the draft state budget must contain all the exact wording of the changes to the draft state budget and the related changes to the revenue, expenditure, investments or financing operations of the draft state budget should be proposed as one amendment. Changes to the Unemployment Insurance Act regarding the change in unemployment insurance contributions are specified. The rest of the Commission's amendments specify the wording and references, harmonise and create legal clarity, as well as changes in the structure of the draft and technical changes to the rules. I will now brief you on the opinions received by the Commission. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs issued an additional opinion on the regulation of the strategic planning system in the text of the second reading of the draft State Budget Act. He pointed out in his opinion the need to provide for all levels of strategic documents in the draft, which would provide a comprehensive picture of the role of the Riigikogu and the government in strategic planning. All subsequent strategic documents should be based on the documents at the previous level and, in addition, the draft should provide for the approval of the fundamentals of the policy, which should fall within the competence of the Riigikogu. It may be the responsibility of the Government of the Republic to develop them. As I mentioned, we made these changes to the draft. In addition, a letter was received from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the compatibility of the draft provisions with the Constitution in view of taking account of the constitutional guarantees of the local authorities. The letter from the Constitutional Commission concerned legal persons governed by public law in the procedure of the draft state budget. According to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, this draft does not reveal the rights of the Minister to design the budget of the Ministry's administration and to monitor the implementation of the budgets of legal persons governed by public law. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs proposes that, in further processing of the draft, consideration may be given to the possibility of clarifying the powers of the Minister in the negotiations on the need for funding of legal persons governed by public law and in the control of the implementation of the budget, or of amending the procedures for implementing the budget of legal persons in any other way and in such a way as to ensure that the budgetary negotiations provide for a meaningful consideration of their specific financial needs. These amendments were accepted by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The Committee on Culture also sent its opinion, as I mentioned earlier. He proposed to delete subsection 84 (7) to 12 from the draft, which would increase the composition of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council by one member, who would be appointed by the Minister of Culture and who should be an expert in the field of culture according to the draft. That's a change we made. The Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu delivered an opinion on the constitutionality of §es 17 and 18 that we had asked for and their compliance with the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. This information is contained in the explanatory memorandum. I sum up the opinion of the Legal and Analytical Department by saying that § 17 and 18 do not violate the constitutional competence of the Riigikogu and the Government of the Republic, but respect the constitutional framework. Now for more information on the issues discussed by the Commission. I have already touched on the main issues when I spoke about the amendments. In addition, the discussion of the development plans in the fields was discussed in the Riigikogu. According to the State Budget Act, the Government of the Republic will submit the development plan to the Riigikogu for discussion before approval. The discussion of the development plan in the Riigikogu is governed by § 156 of the Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act, which provides for the procedure of how the discussion takes place and the positions of the Riigikogu are presented to the Government of the Republic. If the Riigikogu wishes to fix its views on the development plan in writing in addition to the assessment of the leading committee and the opinion of other political forces, it will be possible for the Riigikogu to adopt a decision and submit its proposal to the government in accordance with § 154 of the Rules of Procedure and Home of the Riigikogu Act. In the Commission, we were also talking about the cost ceilings of the country's budget strategy. The Government of the Republic shall immediately submit its budgetary strategy to the Riigikogu after approval. At present, this is not provided for in the basic law, it is a completely new measure that will be added to the basic law. The subject matter of the report on the use of the budget was also discussed in the Commission. In order to ensure supervision by the Riigikogu, the National Audit Office has recommended that the state budget law lay down precise requirements for the management report submitted by the government and include important requirements concerning the structure of the report in the law. This is where the Ministry of Finance cooperates. According to their explanation, the form of the report on the implementation of the state budget is approved in Annex 7 to the General Rules of Accounts, "The form of the annual accounts' and there is also a guide on the preparation of the report on the implementation of the state budget, which is published on the website of the State Support Services Centre. Finally, the lead committee adopted decisions and proposals. The Committee on Finance proposes that the draft for the second reading be put on the plenary agenda on 12 February, i.e. today (this decision was consensual). The Commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading of the draft by 6 votes to 4 with no abstentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U267	Thank you very much, Mr Sven Sester. Let's get to the questions. Please, Mr Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U268	Thank you, Madam President. Austet waitress! As I have pointed out earlier in the process of two drafts, this bill has been written in some strange slang of finance officials, not in Estonian. As you do not take the Socialist amendments very seriously in the Commission, I would ask you for the third time to explain to me § 5 (2) of the draft, which states that the difference between the revenue and expenditure for the main activity for the financial year must be balanced or in surplus. My understanding is that there can be a balance between revenue and expenditure, but the difference between revenue and expenditure is one absolute value. What does this thing have to be balanced with? Balance is a relative concept. Please explain!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U269	Thank you. I'll start with the first part of the question. You said that we would not take account of the Socialist amendments anyway. You have false information, it's not, it's the other way around. The Social Democrats must be very commended for their participation in the process of processing this bill, and that is what I am doing here at the Riigikogu Speaker's Office. You have been very active in the process of dealing with this draft, you have tabled a number of amendments, many of which have been, in essence, partially or fully taken into account. So your first statement was wrong in nature. But now to the bill. With regard to § 5 (2) of the draft, you stated that you do not understand exactly what it means to be balanced and overweight. I understand that again. How do you explain that two plus two is four? Believe me, there's four. I can tell you that if you take the proceeds and the costs, you're going to get a number if you subtract one from the other. Balance means that this number is not negative. The surplus means that the number is positive. Balance means that the result must be at least zero.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U270	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U271	Thank you. Mr President of the Commission. § 154 of the Constitution states that local authorities are independent and autonomous in their activities. The local government's budget is also drawn up autonomously and the local government has the right to decide how to draw it up, including its own decision to borrow. How do you assess the fact that there is, in fact, a limit on the borrowing of local governments for several years? In my opinion, this is either a perceived violation of the Constitution, or this restriction is even contrary to the Constitution. The future new basic law also provides that the Minister of Finance has the right to impose a limit on borrowing when the situation is difficult. Do you see here a contradiction with the Constitution, a constitutional violation, or neither of them?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U272	Thank you. I can rely on professional discussions. Local governments have approached the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu to find out whether certain points of the basic law constitute a breach of the Constitution. The Constitutional Committee, which is undoubtedly supposed to include the best experts in the Riigikogu, has said that there is no barricade. That is the answer to your question. As regards whether financial autonomy will be reduced or reduced, I recall the time when local government money started to go through the state budget. In essence, the Ministry of Finance, or the central government of the State, took on the role in the budgetary procedure (it was actually in that role in the past) that it was the intermediary of the person who made the payment and the local government that received the payment. Then it was also discussed whether there would be the possibility that the state would, for example, keep money and the financial autonomy would be reduced in the sense that this money could not be used. Those fears were basically lost then. I once again assure you, on the basis of the information known to you, that it is now being stated that there is no barrage and that there is no right to say that the basic law goes against the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U273	Please, Mr Kalev Eagle, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U274	Thank you, Madam President. Austet waitress! I'm asking you to unblock § 5 (2) of the bill! So let's talk "two plus two is four," as you suggested. My understanding is that the budget is balanced when, for example, the revenue is 10 units and the expenditure is 10 units. If the income is ten units and the costs are eight units, then the result is two units. So let me ask you what these two units can be balanced with.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U275	Thank you. If the revenue is 10 units and the expenditure is eight units, the result is two units, so it is a budget in surplus. I don't know what else to say. I tried to explain to you in my own words how I understand the terms 'balance' and'surplus'. I can talk to you one more time. In the case of a balanced budget, I understand that there is a balance between revenue and expenditure. In the case of surpluses, I understand that the revenues exceed costs. If you find that one or the other of these terms does not mean what I said, or even think that the law really should not be regulated in this way, the budget could be in deficit, for example, or a third option could be considered, then you have been able to propose amendments. But I really don't think there's a problem here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U276	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U277	Thank you. Mr President of the Commission. I'm wondering if there's any way we should fix the size of the reserve fund of the Government of the Republic. From the reserve fund, the Government of the Republic can make almost all the costs: investments, financing operations, etc. In essence, a parallel budget is created which the Riigikogu does not control. Shouldn't there be some way to determine what a reserve fund might be?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U278	Thank you. This is the subject of the debate. We have several reserves: government reserve, state reserve, etc. Whether to fix their size, this is a discussion topic. If you ask my opinion, I wouldn't be setting the ceiling. Let us remember the years when we were in a deep crisis and the state reserve helped us. If we had fixed a ceiling and this ceiling had reached us, we would certainly have had bigger problems. It is a matter of political will. The ruling coalition has said that if there is a situation where revenue exceeds expenditure, the additional budget will not be made, but the money will be transferred to the reserve. Of course, an extra budget can be made and over-exploited money can be spent. If you're asking for my personal opinion, I don't think there should be any ceiling.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U279	Please, colleague Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U280	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The State Budget Act introduces a new concept of a structural balance. This balance, especially the calculation of the cyclical component of the economy, is based on estimates. The requirement for structural balance must also be taken into account by the Riigikogu if it makes corrections to the draft budget submitted by the government. How does this regulation apply, for example, in a situation where the Riigikogu assesses that it is a one-off, extraordinary cost that can be covered by one-off income, but the government or the Ministry of Finance has a different assessment? How do we proceed in a situation where the Riigikogu's assessment of structural estimates differs from that of the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U281	Thank you. The subject was, a good questioner, as you know, we had a discussion at several meetings. It was not only discussed by politicians; officials of the Ministry of Finance also participated in these discussions. We had two issues under discussion. Firstly, what you asked about, secondly, what real structural position we should base on. This question was also at issue because the structural positions offered by the State, the Ministry of Finance and which have come from Europe, are different for the last year. We have regulated it, and we have also stated in the basic law that in this case, the public financial forecast will always be used as a basis. Secondly, you asked how the author of the amendment could take into account whether or not it was a structural balance-shifting position. Of the discussions that took place in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I had the impression that the financial literacy of the members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs should be such as to make it possible to understand whether this is a proposal that alters the structural balance. Certainly, if there is a situation that, for some reason, we do not fully understand whether or not this proposal could compromise the balance, we can ask. I don't think that's a shame.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U282	Please, Mr Toobal, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U283	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, First of all, a comment on the answer to my previous question. At least on the issue of the financial autonomy of the local government, I disagreed with the position of the Commission in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. But my second question concerns public entities, in particular the development of the budget for Estonian National Broadcasting, as I, as a member of the Broadcasting Council, am concerned about the well-being of national broadcasting. There has been a great deal of talk here about the broadcasting council and the budget. Please help me with this! If this bill becomes a law, how will negotiations on the budget of Estonian National Broadcasting take place in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U284	Thank you. As you know, and as I have said from this point of speech, one approach that was set out as an additional clause, perhaps an additional member, has now been withdrawn from the draft. One important nuance has been introduced in the basic law in the budgetary process. This concerns the Minister responsible for the field, in your example, the Minister for Culture. If, in the past, he had the opportunity to carry out so-called follow-up on the implementation of the budget, he now has the opportunity to evaluate the budget in advance. He was not directly granted this right before the law, which created an interesting power vacuum or a procedural vacuum. The evaluation criterion will now be introduced, i.e. the Minister for Industry will be able to evaluate the budget. The process should be that the board prepares and protects the budget in the Council (in the present case in the National Broadcasting Council). The Council, in turn, communicates with the Minister for Industry at the level of the consultation and finally defends this budget in the Government of the Republic. This should be the structure according to the understanding that has been confirmed in the basic law. I hope I'm not wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U285	Please, Mr Tarmo Tamm, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U286	Mr President of the Commission. Does the draft guarantee that in the future no revenue will be planned for the state budget that has not received the power of the law, as has happened with this year's budget, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U287	Thank you. This issue was also topical at several meetings of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. In the context of the state budget, the wording of the current basic law does not regulate what could at the moment come into the procedure of the Riigikogu. We fixed the situation, there were several options on the table. We stated that at the time of the transfer, the draft state budget law must comply with the laws that have been adopted for that day and with the draft laws that have been put into procedure for that day. After the granting of the draft State Budget Act procedure, it is no longer possible to issue any drafts amending the revenue and expenditure of the state budget. The Government of the Republic will not be given the opportunity to issue drafts for tax changes after the end of September, but it will not be able to take account of these changes in the state budget already being discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U288	Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U289	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I and my colleague, Mrs Vassilyev, have proposed that the local authorities' support fund be concentrated in a single line in the state budget in order to be able to monitor its size and implement the national budget strategy. That proposal didn't work. As a result, the Fund is now divided between different budget lines and cannot be monitored as a single figure. With what arguments was this proposal rejected? Did the Commission really think that better legibility of the state budget would be harmful in any way?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U290	In my report, I pointed out the reasons for not taking into account one or the other amendment. Your proposal was an interesting nuance, which you may not know because you were not present at the moment your amendments were voted on in committee. That was a very interesting amendment. You had given the law a chance to do it either way or by the means of the law, after all, it had remained in the wrong hand and since you didn't know exactly which way to do it, you put a slash between it. In this sense, it was very interesting to deal with this proposal. We could not take this into account because it is not possible for the legislator to send a signal to society to do it either way or the other way.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U291	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U292	Thank you very much, Madam President-in-Office. Honourable Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I will continue with the question posed by Priit Toobal. The basic law of the state budget requires the Minister to negotiate the budget with the Ministry of Finance, but the Estonian Public Broadcasting Act says that the Council is negotiating the budget. Which is the upper hand, or which should be the starting point?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U293	There is a specific point in the basic law that the Council and the Minister are already negotiating the budget with the Minister in the Government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U294	Please, Mr Neeme Big, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U295	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! You have pointed out the fundamental error of the authors of the amendment that we have left two words separated by a fracture line in the proposal, 'complete/uniform', and have not made a choice between them, but we have thought that the Commission might choose a better word. These are actually two synonyms. Is that the substantive flaw that you have just referred to here, which is why this proposal did not find support?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U296	Thank you. Not only the Committee on Monetary Affairs, but all the other committees can only base themselves on the text of the amendment that has been tabled. We cannot arbitrarily withdraw any words from the amendment. The Committee on Finance can always make its proposals, but we cannot say that we will take one word and approve your amendment. We can still vote only on what you put on the table. The Committee on Finance may, of course, propose further amendments in its own name on the basis of some of your texts. I would like to congratulate you because, as I said earlier, a number of amendments came from the Social Democrats and many of them found substantial or partial support. Thank you also for our christening to Eiki Nestor, who has offered a delightful debate in the Commission! In the course of the draft procedure, the basic law became much more precise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U297	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Sven Sester. Do colleagues want to negotiate? Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U298	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U299	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U300	First of all, thank you to Mr Sester for his good words, but also for the fact that there was a serious debate in the Commission on this draft. The government's original plan was to let it through here like this with a whirlwind, but the Commission realized that this is not the way to do it. Indeed, our discussions have been more substantial, we have not been able to pay so much attention to the wording. That is why there are also places in this draft that Mr Eagle drew attention to. Look, I'm such an old person that I remember that when psychedelic rock music and underground developed at the end of the 1960s, the bands tried to find themselves a very absurd name to get attention. Now that style is back in fashion. The text of this draft could offer such an absurd band name as Balance Difference. It's hard to imagine such a thing, but for a rock band, it's a good name. Now, if you go to the bill, there's a lot of places that aren't that important, but they're very substantive. Let me give you a few examples. For example, when the Stabilisation Reserve was created, its main task was to finance long-term projects that benefit society. It has been added that this money can also be used in the event of an economic crisis. Now the possibility of financing long-term projects is out of here at all, and I think that is a mistake. Whether we take this opportunity or not, that's one thing. But the law should give it a chance. Or another example where the wording of the draft is not best. If, during the financial year, it turns out that the budget forecast does not correspond to reality and the situation is worse, then on the basis of our proposal, the government should decide whether or not something is being done, because the budget is a government document. By its wording here, the Minister of Finance informs the Government and, if necessary, proposes to do something. Some finance ministers may feel that this is not necessary. In fact, it should be up to the government to decide whether to do anything. These are the nuances of this bill, but now I'm telling you the most important thing. Last time there was a second reading, I tried to convince the Riigikogu that the state of long-term development plans is poor and that nothing has been improved with this draft. It is important to amend the draft law so that the development plans of the fields, as well as the development plans and programmes of the ministries, are living documents. At the moment, only one amendment has entered into the draft, which the National Audit Office was successfully able to clarify to the Commission. The main policy orientations have now been added to the development plans, which will be adopted by the Riigikogu. Indeed, the right to initiate policies has remained with the Riigikogu, but in itself their procedure does not differ much from the way these long-term documents are currently discussed. One we discussed today. The Riigikogu can discuss, argue and nod, but nothing can be repaired. That's basically the wrong approach. The content of our proposals is, in short, as follows: If required by law or if so decided by the government, the development plans of the fields are to be approved in the Riigikogu, in such a way that the draft decision is submitted, the Commission discusses it and takes place at the first reading of the draft decision in the large hall, and later the government has the right to change the development plan during the proceedings. The Commission can actually improve the development plan in cooperation with the government and at second reading the Riigikogu approves this document. A financial plan is a mandatory part of all these development plans. Every year, the report is submitted to the Riigikogu and the plans that have been made so far will also be amended if deemed necessary. This is done either by the government itself or by the Riigikogu in the course of its reporting. That's the only way we can get these documents that work. It is reasonable and right to make long-term plans, but not in the form that we act as if they existed, the Riigikogu discusses beautiful development plans, which have spent a lot of time and money, many ideas have been written down, the people who prepared them are certainly satisfied themselves, the Minister is satisfied and his Public Relations Department is also satisfied because they were able to make a press conference or some interesting news. That's it. When the press conferences are over, these development plans will remain on the shelf somewhere, and in a few years' time, no one will remember that they exist at all. I'm a little sorry, too. Deduction of input VAT on passenger cars led to a turnaround in society. This is also an important question, but this draft, which is still the most important document in the composition of this Riigikogu, I believe, which we have discussed at all, has not aroused any interest in the public. This is despite the fact that this law deals with how such draft laws dealing with the deduction of input tax on passenger cars can or cannot be born and can be drawn up in this way at all. I guess he's, I don't know, too complicated. Finally, I would like to join Mr Sõerd. We have tried to raise the issue of structural and nominal balance in the Commission. I am afraid that if this law is adopted as such, it will mainly be debated whether the requirements of structural balance have been met or not, but not over the budget itself. In order to make the law even better, Mr Bureau, our group proposes to suspend the second reading of the draft, of course after voting on the amendments, when this is possible under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U301	Thank you very much. Please, colleague Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U302	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It is my proposal not to interrupt the procedure for this bill and to adopt it as a law, because it is still a pretty important matter. The European Union has implemented considerably stricter budgetary rules and action plans to ensure the credibility and sustainability of the economy as it emerges from the crisis. Together with this, it is also necessary to increase the stability of the euro area and make it stronger. The European Union now has the regulations to ensure coordination of the euro area's national budgets. This is a very important stage in moving towards more sound finances, which will help prevent future crises. Obviously, it is a priority for Member States to implement the currently agreed regulations in national law. I would like to stress that we've gotten pretty busy with this. The main aspect that should be addressed here is that we are transposing into national law the agreed budget balance and the automatic correction mechanism rule, which have already been incorporated into many Member States' laws. The principle that we lay down by law the requirement to draw up a state budget in such a way that the structural balance of the government sector is at least balanced is important to us at national level, but also in the context of the European Union as a whole. Of course, it is very important that, if a Member State deviates significantly from the balance rule (and in our case this principle will continue to apply if we adopt this law), measures to improve the budgetary position must be taken until the structural budget balance is reached. The implementation of the principle of structural balance in practice is new. I asked the chairman of the committee about this. This is a new concept. I think it is beautifully difficult for the Riigikogu to understand and understand the methodology for assessing the structural balance. We understand one-off measures quite well. For example, whether the dividend we take from a state-owned company is normal or larger than usual is understandable to everyone. But how to calculate the impact of the economic cycle... Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U303	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U304	...is pretty complicated, I can tell you. Moreover, estimates may vary quite a bit. I asked the European Commission to explain why, for example, they assessed the budgetary position of this year by 0.7 percentage points in a different way than the Ministry of Finance. Indeed, the Commission assessed the impact of the economic cycle differently, but it also assessed the impact of the one-off measures differently. For example, if the Ministry of Finance estimates that Estonia's GDP is below the potential level this year, the Commission estimates that it is above the potential level. This implies a fundamental difference of assessment. That is why I have also pointed out in my question that if we start applying this principle in practice, especially when proposing improvements, different assessments could be problematic. My understanding is that the concept of nominal balance, alongside structural balance, is introduced into European rules as a whole. For the sake of objectivity, I do not see the possibility that the principle of nominal balance is not taken into account. This is obviously necessary in order to carry out an objective assessment of the budgets of the Member States. But, of course, I propose that we support this bill. We're really in a hurry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U305	Thank you very much, Mr Sõerd. There's no more calls. I will conclude the negotiations and go to the examination of the amendments. As has been said, 67 amendments have been tabled to the draft. Let's go through them. The first is from the lead committee; the second is from the lead committee; the third is from the lead committee, i.e. they are all fully taken into account. The fourth proposal is from the lead committee. The fifth proposal has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the lead committee has rejected this proposal. The sixth proposal is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the lead committee has rejected this proposal. The seventh proposal has been tabled by the Steering Committee, the Social Affairs Committee, the Party, the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the Steering Committee has rejected this proposal. Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U306	I did not understand who put forward this proposal, but I would ask you to vote on it anyway.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U307	I improved that the Social Democratic Party Group, I had a bit of a knot in my tongue. That is Amendment 7. Let's get to the vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the seventh amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has not been taken into account by the commission. Please vote! 20 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour and 36 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The eighth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the commission has rejected this proposal. Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U308	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U309	Please! Colleagues, can we vote? Looks like no one's gonna mind. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the eighth amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has been rejected by the commission. Please vote! (meeting of 19), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 36 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The ninth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U310	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U311	I'd love to. I am voting on the ninth amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The Steering Committee has decided that this proposal should be disregarded. Please vote! (meeting of 19), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 35 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 10 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 11 has been tabled by my colleague Mr Herkel, the commission has taken this proposal into account in substance. The 12th amendment has also been tabled by my colleague, Mr Herkel, and the commission has taken this proposal into account in substance. Amendment 13 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; this amendment has not been taken into account by the commission. The 14th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; this proposal has not been taken into account by the commission. The 15th amendment is from my colleague Mr Herkel; the commission has partially taken this proposal into account. Amendment 16 is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; this proposal has not been taken into account by the commission. Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U312	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U313	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the 16th amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has not been taken into account by the commission. Please vote! (meeting of 20) and 35 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 17 is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the commission has rejected this proposal. Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U314	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U315	Please! Colleagues, I shall put to the vote Amendment 17 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has been rejected by the lead committee. Please vote! (meeting of 19), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 35 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 18 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party and has not been taken into account. Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U316	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U317	Please! Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 18 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party and rejected by the commission. Please vote! (meeting of 19), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 35 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 19 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party and has not been taken into account. Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U318	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U319	Please! All right! I shall put to the vote Amendment 19, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Please vote! (meeting of 18), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 34 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 20 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the lead committee has failed. Amendment 21 is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has been disregarded. Amendment 22 is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has been disregarded. Amendment 23 is from the lead committee, i.e. has been fully taken into account. Amendment 24 has been taken fully into account by the commission. Amendment 25 has been taken fully into account by the lead committee. Amendment 26 has been tabled by colleagues Neeme Suur and Rannar Vassilyev, the lead committee has failed. Amendment 27 has been taken fully into account by the lead committee. Amendment 28 has been taken fully into account by the commission. Amendment 29 has been taken fully into account by the commission. Amendment 30 has been taken fully into account by the commission. Amendment 31 has been fully taken into account; it has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 32 has been tabled by the lead committee, fully taken into account. Amendment 33 has been taken fully into account by the commission. Amendment 34 is from colleagues Neeme Suur and Rannar Vassilyev, which has been disregarded. Amendment 35 has been taken fully into account by the lead committee. Amendment 36 has been taken fully into account by the lead committee. Amendment 37 has been tabled by the lead committee, fully taken into account. Amendment 38 has been taken fully into account by the commission. Amendment 39 has been taken fully into account by the commission. Amendment 40 has been taken fully into account by the commission. Amendment 41 has been taken fully into account by the commission. Amendment 42 has been tabled by colleagues Neeme Suur and Rannar Vassilyev, the lead committee has taken this proposal fully into account. Amendment 43 has been tabled by the lead committee, fully taken into account. Amendment 44 has been taken fully into account by the commission. Amendment 45 has been taken fully into account by the commission. Amendment 46 is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; this proposal has been taken into account in substance. Amendment 47 is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; this proposal has been rejected. Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U320	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U321	Please! Good Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 47 tabled by the Social Democratic Party Group, which has not been taken into account by the commission. Please vote! (meeting of 19), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 34 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 48 has been tabled by the lead committee, fully taken into account. Amendment 49 is from the lead committee. Amendment 50 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; this proposal has been rejected. Amendment 51 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 52 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; this proposal has been partially taken into account by the commission. Amendment 53 has been tabled by my colleague Mr Herkel, the commission has taken this proposal fully into account. Amendment 54 has been taken fully into account by the commission. Amendment 55 has been tabled by the lead committee, fully taken into account. Amendment 56 has been taken fully into account by the commission. Amendment 57 has been taken fully into account by the commission. Amendment 58 has been taken fully into account by the commission. Amendment 59 has been taken fully into account by the commission. Amendment 60 has been taken fully into account by the commission. Amendment 61 has been taken fully into account by the commission. Amendment 62 is from the lead committee, fully taken into account. Amendment 63 is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; this proposal has been rejected. Amendment 64 is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; this proposal has been rejected. Amendment 65 is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; this proposal has been rejected. Amendment 66 has been taken fully into account by the commission. Amendment 67 is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; this proposal has been rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, we have examined all the amendments. The Social Democratic Party Group has sent us a nice request. They propose to suspend the second reading of draft 513. We must vote on this proposal. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft proposal of the Social Democratic Party Group 513 to interrupt the second reading. Please vote! 19 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour and 34 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Second reading of bill 513 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U322	The next item is the second reading of the draft law 482 on the amendment of the railway law initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. I ask Lembit Kaljuvee, member of the Committee on Economic Affairs for a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U323	Madam Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I am now talking about the draft law 482, about what took place between the first reading and the second reading in the Commission. As we recall, the Government of the Republic initiated this draft. a on September 16th. The first reading took place on 22 October. The deadline for submitting amendments was 6 November and no amendments were tabled. A total of 33 proposals for amendments to the draft text were prepared in cooperation with the representatives of the initiators. The text submitted for the second reading has also been edited. November 6, M. a and 30 January s. a) you addressed the Commission with proposals and comments from Raidla Lejins & Norcous and South Western Railway Infrastructure AS. During the preparation of the draft amendments, the Economic Commission Working Group met several times with representatives of the initiators of the draft from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and experts from the Technical Surveillance Authority. The Economic Commission visited AS Eesti Raudtee, Estonia's largest railway infrastructure operator. As a representative of the lead commission, I met with representatives of several major railway undertakings, including the managers and owners of infrastructure companies, transport companies and also freight companies. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the draft twice before sending it to second reading. For the first time on 23 January, 32 amendments were examined, most of which had technical and organisational content. I'm not gonna dissect them one by one. I've had a lot of contact with the railroad, but I have to say I couldn't explain them so easily, because there are legal terms that are difficult for me at certain moments. Looking at how many people are in the hall and how many of them are familiar with railway matters, it seems to me that there is no point in wasting our time. All these proposals are in writing, and their discussion and conclusions are also on paper. This has been pointed out by our advisers here, but the review of this package of paper together does not, in my opinion, add anything to this bill. Specialists from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications were present at the meeting of the Commission when we examined these proposals. In addition, the Commission addressed the proposals contained in the letter of attorney-at-law Jüri Raidla from Raidla Lejins & Norcous's senior partner. This was done both in the working group and in the Commission meeting. The lawyer brokered his client's proposals to amend some of the provisions of the Rail Act, which would enable carriers to have better access to rail transport across the Estonian-Russian border. These proposals also provided for the relaxation of requirements for the admission of locomotives engines from third countries to the territory of Estonia. I said that the amendments that we looked at between the first and second reading were technical and tidy. These proposals, which came from outside the Riigikogu, could in principle be divided into two or even two and a half. First of all, Jüri Raidla's proposal to cross the border, namely the Russian border. Secondly, the proposal to relax the technical requirements of locomotives on Estonian territory. I was talking about two and a half. In particular, last week, South Western Railway proposed the pricing of rail infrastructure. At present, this price is determined by the Technical Surveillance Authority. The South Western Railway proposal was that the Technical Surveillance Authority should not do so. The Commission discussed the proposal both at the working group and at its meeting. We stuck to the positions that the initiator and the Commission themselves have proposed at the border with this draft. We have heard the views of the representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. They too felt that these changes could not go along with this draft. At the same time, however, we all felt that the next time the rail law was being discussed, we would probably come back to these matters of substance. The commission decided to propose the termination of the second reading. The proposal was voted through, and everyone agreed on it. The second proposal was to send the draft to the third reading when the second reading was completed, on 13 February. This decision was also taken by consensus. The third decision was to propose a final vote on the draft. It was also a consensual decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U324	Thank you very much, Mr Kaljuvee. It is a question of my colleague, Ester Tuiksol!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U325	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Commission's waitress. During the debate on this draft, did you also discuss the issue of land eligible for support? If land is purchased for railways and this land is eligible agricultural land, what will it be and will the Ministry of Agriculture give an opinion on it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U326	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U327	Thank you, good questioner! Unfortunately, I must say that we did not discuss this in the Commission. I don't dare comment on it legally from this remote control right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U328	Thank you. Dear waitress, With regard to the development of the Rail Baltic project, a narrower railway protection zone is established: instead of 50 metres, it is 30 metres. What does it come from? Is it because the state should pay less for these countries in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U329	At first reading, there was talk about this issue in this Chamber. But as a reminder, these figures come from the technical requirements of the European railway. This has nothing to do with us wanting to get together somewhere and seeing a good opportunity for the beautiful Rail Baltic.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U330	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Kaljuvee. Do colleagues want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. We will go to the examination of the amendments. 33 amendments have been tabled. Let's start over. The first, second, third, fourth and fifth proposals have been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs; these proposals have been fully taken into account. The sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth and tenth proposals are from the Committee on Economic Affairs and are fully taken into account. The 11th, 12th, 13th and 14th proposals have been taken fully into account by the Committee on Economic Affairs. The 15th, 16th, 17th, 18th, 19th, 20th and 21st proposals are from the Committee on Economic Affairs and have been fully taken into account. The 22nd, 23rd, 24, 25th and 26th proposals have been taken fully into account by the Economic Commission. The 27th, 28th, 29th, 30th and 31st proposals have been taken fully into account by the Economic Commission. The 32nd and 33rd proposals have been taken fully into account by the Economic Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, we have examined all the amendments. Second reading of bill 482 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U331	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Electricity Market Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. For a presentation, please, Minister of Economy and Communications Juhan Parts!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U332	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Government will submit a draft law amending the Electricity Market Act. The reason for initiating this draft is that the European Commission opened a dispute against the Republic of Estonia last April. The Commission has asked the Court to establish whether the Republic of Estonia has fully transposed the provisions resulting from the Electricity Market Directive. The Republic of Estonia does not agree with the positions of the European Commission, but, on the basis of practical considerations and for the sake of clarity, we have drawn up this draft law to clarify the wording of the Electricity Market Act in order to eliminate any disputes and doubts as to whether this directive has been transposed in Estonia or not. In addition, we have included in the draft provisions on the directly applicable regulation of the European Union on the integrity and transparency of the wholesale energy market and on informing the Commission about investment projects in energy infrastructure. Since all these amendments are of a technical or legal nature, i.e. they have no direct practical effect on the functioning of the electricity market, I am not going to read the explanatory memorandum in terms of time savings. It is accessible to all interested parties and I expect members of the Riigikogu to have become familiar with it. As regards the expenditure related to the draft, we have planned for the Competition Authority an additional task of EUR 70000. This concerns the creation of a register for the transmission of data to the European Commission on the basis of infrastructure investment projects. However, it should be noted that the basic data necessary for the establishment of this register has not been established by the European Commission. We think that they will be introduced by the end of this year, it will be possible to assess more precisely the extent of the tasks of the Competition Authority. The draft is planned to enter into force as a law in general order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U333	Thank you very much, Minister. No questions for you. I ask for a presentation by Toomas Tõniste, member of the Economic Commission for the Speaker's Committee on Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U334	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed this draft on 27 January. Juhan Parts, Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, and Viive Šavel, expert in the Department of Energy, and Hindrek Allvee, Head of the Legal Department, were invited to the meeting of the Commission. They provided an overview of the objectives and content of the draft and answered the questions. During the consultation, the separation of the distribution system operator from the producer was raised as one of the themes. We learned that there is no requirement to separate all operators in the distribution system directly from the principles of the functioning of the European internal electricity market. Therefore, whether all distribution system operators should be separated from producers and sellers in ownership is a national issue. The Directive requires a distribution system operator to be legally separate from production and sales if it has more than 100000 customers. There is no requirement for ownership unbundling of the distribution network operator and there is sufficient legal separation. The Commission decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 12 February. Our proposal is to conclude the first reading and set the deadline of 27 February at 17. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U335	Thank you very much, Mr Tõniste. No questions for you either. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 557 amendments at 5 p.m. on 27 February. First reading of Bill 557 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U336	Our last item on the agenda is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Law on Natural Gas, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 556. For the presentation, please again, Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U337	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable audience! The Government will submit a draft amendment to the Natural Gas Act. We initiated this draft for the same reason as the draft law amending the electricity market law that has just been discussed. The European Commission has brought an action against Estonia for the full transposition of the Gas Market Directive to the European Court of Justice. In order to avoid unnecessary litigation, we are presenting a draft law, the wording of which follows very precisely the wording of the directive. In addition, as a result of the directive, we have included in the draft some changes that directly concern the gas market, which are of a technical nature. For example, if until now the system operator had to submit a ten-year development plan to the Competition Authority for coordination, the draft provides that this plan will be submitted for information. The draft also specifies the units to be indicated on the final gas consumer bill. The draft introduces five new concepts: storage system operator, LNG terminal operator, vulnerable consumer, vertically integrated operator and distribution system operator. The draft complements the regulation of the storage system operator and the LNG terminal operator and gives the Competition Authority additional rights to ensure the effective functioning of the gas market. That is all that matters about this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U338	Thank you very much, Minister. There are no questions. I feel like I'm gonna have to take a three-minute break from the manager. We'll proceed at 6.57 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U339	The chairman's recess is over. Arto Asa, member of the Economic Commission for the Speaker's Committee, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U340	Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was discussed by the Committee on Economic Affairs on Thursday 30 January 2014. In addition to the members of the committee, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, and Timo Tatar, Head of the Department of Energy of the Ministry, Rein Vaks, expert, and Ulla Saar, Head of the Legal Department were invited to the debate on the item. The Minister has already given an overview of the content of the draft 556; I am now going to say a few words about what was being said in the Commission. The Minister was asked how far the separation of the core network from the supplier has come. It was said that Eesti Gaas has made significant changes in its structure. Allegedly, all preparations have been made to separate the core network from the supplier. It can therefore be argued that Eesti Gaas has complied with the law correctly, despite all the problems that arose in connection with the adoption of this law at the time. There is another question concerning the small part of the pipeline between Russia and Latvia, which is located on the territory of Estonia. This problem is allegedly being addressed. However, the minister said that he lacked precise information about the current situation with the sale of the shares. This phase must be completed by 1 January 2015 and hopefully everything will work out. Secondly, representatives of the Ministry were asked whether Elering was potentially interested in the gas core network. They said it wasn't. There has been no binding formal decision that the State should invest in it. However, it was recalled that the new shareholder must be approved by both the Competition Authority and the Ministry of the Interior, which should ensure that the new owner, whoever he is, is independent of the current suppliers. In short, that is all about the bill. Most of the amendments made are directly attributable to the Directive. There has been little opportunity to negotiate with market participants or those who have tabled amendments, because the European Commission wants the directive to be transposed very accurately. Finally, I will talk about the Commission's decisions. Firstly, we proposed that the draft be put on the plenary agenda on 12 February 2014, secondly, we have a proposal to conclude the first reading, and thirdly, we propose that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 17 February. All decisions were taken in a consensual manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-12_U341	Thank you very much. There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 556 amendments at 5 p.m. on 19 February. The first reading of Bill 556 is complete and the sitting is closed. Closure of the sitting at 19.01.
