ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Prime Minister and ministers! We're gonna start the briefing. Please, let's do the presence check first! Currently 41 members are present and there are no 60 members of the Riigikogu. The following members of the government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, Minister of Justice Andres Anvelt and Minister of Foreign Affairs Urmas Paet.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U2	Let's get to the questions. The first question has been put to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas about the electricity market by Kadri Simson. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U3	Thank you. Dear Taavi in the garment! From September 10, both Estonian and Finnish connections, EstLink 1 and EstLink 2 fell out of line at the same time. This, in turn, led to an increase in the average electricity exchange price of Nord Pool Spot's Estonian price area from EUR 37,27 to EUR 55,68 per megawatt-hour. True, EstLink 2 is now back on track, but the risk of failure must be eliminated quickly. In what circumstances did both cables fall out of line at the same time, even though it was only during the summer that they were under maintenance?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U4	Thank you. Indeed, it is unfortunate that both sea cables were out of line at the same time. But the positive thing is that EstLink 2's failure was resolved very quickly, within about five days. I looked after this morning around 9:00 a.m., so far the movement of electricity to Estonia by Finland to Estonia in the amount of EstLink 2, i.e. about 650 megawatts, has been restored. In both cases, it was simply a technical failure. In the case of EstLink 2, the same failure has occurred in the past and since the guarantee period was in force, the liquidation of the failure was covered by the guarantee. Elering is now convinced that this could be a systematic mistake. Therefore, every effort will be made to rule out such failures in the future, and this may mean the replacement of several more interlinks as soon as possible. But if you look at the big picture, the fact that we have EstLink 1 and EstLink 2 in the first place has severely reduced electricity prices in Estonia. Now that we had both cables out of order, our electricity price reached Latvia and Lithuania, which, as you rightly pointed out, is one third higher than in Estonia. For this reason alone, we very much need EstLink 1 and EstLink 2 to keep our electricity price a third cheaper than in Latvia and Lithuania.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U5	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson, the first question to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U6	Thank you. Dear Taavi in the garment! Very many energy-intensive manufacturing companies in Estonia buy electricity at stock exchange prices, such as Estonian Cell, the largest consumer in Estonia. The average monthly electricity bill is 1.2 million euros. I believe that there is a pretty big difference between EUR 1.2 million and EUR 1.8 million due to mistakes from Elering. How should companies operating in Estonia react to this situation, and do they have to pay for Elering's mistakes? If so, how do you prevent the risk of the last energy-intensive production companies leaving Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U7	Thank you. Elering's primary responsibility is to ensure security of electricity supply. This was guaranteed throughout the period when sea cables were damaged. As we know, Kiisa's emergency power plant has just been opened, which will be operational as soon as any failure of EstLink 2 occurs. Thus, security of supply was not at risk for a moment. With regard to the electricity bill and the impact of the failures on it, I do not know what to say with certainty about a particular electricity consumer, but I do not know what their agreement is, but I dare say that they have agreed on the price of electricity over a long period of time. It's possible that this one fluctuation doesn't affect their power bill. But once again, I do not know the content of the electricity contract for a particular consumer, so there is no reason to discuss it here for a very long time. Let's say we don't have two sea cables. In this case, we would probably always have the same price as the so-called regulated market price in Latvia and Lithuania. The switch to the market price in the Middle Party in its day was very critical. However, we do have EstLink 1 and EstLink 2 and, as a result, our price is about 97 to 98% of the time equal to that of Finland and about a third cheaper than that of Latvia. This is very important because, in the first half of this year alone, it left 26 million euros more in the hands of the people of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U8	Please, Kadri Simson, the second point to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U9	Dear Taavi in the garment! You sound like this year hasn't been the last year. We did indeed criticise the transition to an open market, but before the environment had been created in the form of these same EstLinks. However, you must admit that these EstLink failures will lead to significant price increases for consumers. Do you think that's normal? If not, who is responsible for such failures?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U10	Thank you. Mistakes are undoubtedly regrettable. If you're asking if it's possible to rule out these failures completely, I don't think so. Can you learn from these failures? Yes, it is. The replacement of a specific detail gives us a clear assurance for the future that, at least, similar failures cannot occur. Does this rule out any future failure of electrical systems? I don't think so. But that's why we've built emergency stations. We have the confidence that equipment will be preserved even if something happens to specific parts of the transmission networks, whether they are sea cables or why not land cables in the direction of Latvia, for example. Security must be guaranteed and guaranteed. Returning to the price of electricity, as I said, about 97 to 98% of the time our electricity price is equal to that of Finland, and for a very large part of the time we have a much cheaper price for electricity than in Latvia and Lithuania. These cables work most of the time, but they work very well. True, any failure, if it leaves them off the grid for just one hour, reminds us of what life would be like without these two cables. All the more so, investing in these cables was a sensible decision from a far-reaching perspective. As you well know, these cables could not have been built without opening the Estonian energy market. But more importantly, in the future, we must continue to invest in transmission networks and we must also establish a third link with Latvia to further increase the confidence that electricity supply is guaranteed, and not only for our own region, but for our entire region.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U11	Thank you very much. Now two issues registered on the spot. Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U12	Thank you. Prime Minister! I think that this decision that Estonian sellers sell all their electricity to the stock exchange and that Estonia has fully opened its electricity market, as well as these two connections to the Nordic countries, has brought us much lower electricity prices. I figured it's week 38 of the year. This week's average market price may be slightly higher due to the loss of these two cables, but the average electricity market price for at least seven weeks has been lower this year than the price of electricity on the captive market before the opening of the market. This is in itself a very important indicator and, of course, a market price above the average of a few days does not affect the monthly electricity bill to such an extent as to cause problems. But what do you intend to say to your Latvian and Lithuanian colleagues that they too would sell all their electricity to the market?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U13	Kalle Palling, we're out of time!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U14	Thank you. Yes, it is true that electricity prices are currently more favourable than they would be in a captive market. All the more so since, at the time, there was a situation where we could use the CO2 quota without money, seemingly free of charge, in the case of a closed market, we would also be obliged to add the price of the quota to the fixed price. In view of this, it can be said with great certainty that the transition to the free market has significantly reduced the price of electricity in Estonia. If we compare the average monthly prices, which also take into account the individual failures that occur, as was the case in August in the short term, the average price of one megawatt-hour in Estonia was 39.1 euros in August, while the average price of 55.31 euros in Latvia and Lithuania. This means that Latvian energy was a third more expensive. If we take another month, for example June, the average price in Estonia was 35.81 euros, 54.9 euros in Latvia and Lithuania. The difference is more than a third. What do I say to my Latvian and Lithuanian colleagues? The best thing I can say is to look at the price of electricity in Estonia. The transition to a free market is also very directly in the interest of Latvia and Lithuania. It is true that in order for Latvia to fully enjoy the cheap energy coming from the Nordic countries, including Estonia, we need to establish a third electric line between Estonia and Latvia, and that is what we are planning. Let's do it; not only is the energy security of the entire region guaranteed, but the prices of Latvia and Lithuania will also become like those of Estonia, i.e. cheaper.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U15	Thank you. Just in case, I will tell Kalle Palling that it is possible to ask a question on the ground here. Please, Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U16	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Last year, a report on the separation of the Baltic electricity systems from Russia was prepared at the request of the Baltic system managers, and the main conclusion was that this is technically feasible. This report was also presented to the government. However, all this was last year and a final separation from the Russian system would be possible in 2025. However, given the changed security situation and the deteriorating economic situation, what should we do now? Is it possible to speed up this process a little bit and shorten the deadline because the situation has changed?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U17	The separation of Estonia and our entire region from the synchronous area of Northwest Russia and the synchronisation with the European frequency band are certainly an important objective for our government. Its specific output, with which we want to proceed very quickly and as soon as possible to obtain external financing, is the third electricity line between Estonia and Latvia. This gives the possibility that Latvia, and thus Lithuania, will be much better connected to larger transmission capacities in the Nordic countries. In addition, it is necessary to establish a transmission line between Lithuania and Poland, as well as between Lithuania and Sweden. Both routes are planned to be built much earlier than in 2025, which you referred to as the deadline. Taking also into account the statements made by colleagues recently, not only in Estonia, but also in Latvia, Lithuania and Poland, including the six-step plan already proposed by the former Polish Prime Minister, Donald Tusk, and looking at the priorities of the European Commission, where energy connections are very high, I dare say that the deadline could be earlier. We are ready to make our investments at a much faster pace, but only our investment will, of course, not be enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U18	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue because we have five other issues today.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U19	The next issue is Estonia's security. Priit Toobal has a question for Foreign Minister Urmas Paet.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U20	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, In view of the current situation, Estonia's security issues, including the Estonian state border, have risen very sharply. The experts really claim that there is a major problem at the Estonian-Russian border, because the border is not correctly marked or not properly insured. I understand that, in the absence of a border agreement, part of the border is one that is not exactly agreed, but a large part of the border has also been agreed. What do you think about the idea of putting physical barriers on the Estonian and Russian borders or increasing manpower there with the employees of the PBGB?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U21	I think that the current border, which in legal terms is the control line between Estonia and Russia, certainly requires additional investment in people, technology and the whole environment there. With the Ministry of the Interior and the Government as a whole, we have been very clear about this. I am pretty sure that the Ministry of the Interior will take very concrete steps in the near future to contribute even more to the surveillance of the control line between us and Russia.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U22	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal, the first question to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U23	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. As we know, the Estonian-Russian border is also the border of the European Union, as well as the NATO border. In recent meetings with the leaders of the European Union and NATO, have you heard the demands of these organisations that Estonia take a more serious approach to defending the Estonian-Russian state border? Once again, this is not only the border between Estonia and Russia, but also the border between the European Union and Russia and NATO and Russia.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U24	No, there are no such comments or demands. As you probably know, one important aspect is that Estonia is a member of the Schengen visa area and our border with those countries that are not in the European Union or in the Schengen visa area is indeed the external border of Schengen. Compliance with the requirements of this limit shall be assessed on a regular basis. But there hasn't been any pointing from the outside.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U25	Thank you. The issue of Urbo Vaarmanni registered on site.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U26	Thank you. Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, Can you tell me, even though it doesn't really go to your area, how much has it been fixed over the past year for the other half of those crossing the border who have been caught? What percentage could there be of those who have not been apprehended? As far as I'm concerned, they found bodies and people in life who were caught afterwards. How well can we still protect our borders?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U27	It is clear that illegal border crossing is a problem for all countries bordered by a different legal and political environment. No European Union border country, whether in the East, North or South, can say that nothing will happen in this sense, i.e. no illegal border crossingrs will come into the country. Unfortunately, this is a major problem at the southern border of the European Union, because, as you know, there are daily reports of illegal immigrants entering the European Union from there. Similarly, although not on this scale, it is also a problem on the eastern border of the European Union. I don't have any statistics available right now, but I'm sure you'll get this from the Police and Border Guard Board, where all these cases are fixed. There are cases like this. This year, too, there have been illegal border crossings, mostly by third-country nationals trying to reach the European Union via Russian territory. Often, these people come from conflict zones, such as Afghanistan, and more and more from Syria. However, there have also been reports of economic refugees, such as Vietnam. So, yeah, there are cases like that. I don't know about the bill right now, but I'm sure you'll get it for the first question from the Police and Border Guard Board. Together, however, the countries of the European Union should, of course, pay more and more attention to Frontex, the EU Border Guard Agency, and strengthen it, because the world around us is complex and anxious, and this will inevitably lead to an increase in the number of refugees.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U28	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal, the second point to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U29	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. My last question concerns the border agreement with Russia, or rather its absence. I think that right now we need a border treaty more than ever. Has Russia's side been discussing the ratification of the border agreements in recent weeks? We've already made the first move. When does Russia plan to take its first move or its first step? If we came to the Eston Suitcase case, would the existence of a border agreement help anything or change the course of negotiations with Russia at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U30	As far as the border agreements are concerned, the last contacts with the Russian side with the so-called specific message come from the summer. Russia then carried out its internal coordination procedures to send drafts to the Russian Parliament for ratification. The Russian Parliament was also on summer leave and, as far as I know, it only started working again yesterday. Therefore, it has not yet been possible for the Russian Government to give anything to Parliament to deal with. So there has been no message from Russia that they are somehow slowing this process down. We have given them a clear message, which we have also spoken about several times here, that the Estonian Parliament has done first reading in the ratification procedure. The second reading and the final vote will come after, at least, the Russian side has opened proceedings in its own Parliament. There's no signal other than the summer information that they're coordinating to send the bill to Parliament, we haven't gotten it. Parliament met yesterday, so hopefully in the near future it will be possible to see the Russian side moving forward with its ratification. As far as the Eston Suitcase is concerned, I do not see that the validity of the Estonian-Russian border treaty could change anything, because neither side is currently debating where we look at the check line and the Russian border, where there is Estonia's side and where there is Russia's side. There's no disagreement or argument here. So I guess, actually, I'm pretty sure that the validity of the border treaty wouldn't have changed anything in this case.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U31	Thank you. The second issue registered on the spot. Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U32	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I also have a question about Estonia's security. Recently, much has been discussed as to whether to allow the sale of 0.2 hectares of land to Russian citizens. In fact, the media have dealt with this subject a little misguidedly. The point is that these 0.2 hectares of land in Estonia are for people with long-term residence permits who have already acquired ownership of the land, i.e. it is their property. The problem is that Aunt Katya, who has 0,2 hectares of land, wants to sell it to the exact same person, Aunt Olga. Please tell me, as Minister, how this worn-out calossus Aunt Katja is threatening the Estonian state near Narva!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U33	I'm absolutely sure that Aunt Katya you were talking about is a very honest and nice person, and she doesn't threaten anyone. But no such restrictions have been made in the laws of Estonia or other countries for nothing. In the debate on whether there is any reason to change anything in the legal system, of course, we need to do an analysis and think a little further than Aunt Katya's own, what things? With calories. The discussion on this subject is currently going to the highest political level in the Estonian country, and though collective wisdom will finally say whether it is appropriate to relax this restriction to some extent or not. Certainly, however, this discussion cannot be limited to the level that Aunt Katya will sell her land to another aunt tomorrow. In theory, however, there may be other interested parties who may not be so peaceful and gentle.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U34	Thank you very much. I will also close the debate on this issue, because we have, as I have already said, a number of registered issues that must all be dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U35	The next issue is government policy. The question is for Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas and the questioner is Siim Kiisler. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U36	Thank you. Honourable Prime Minister! My question is about government policy regarding ferry traffic between Saaremaa and Hiiumaa and the mainland. About a year ago, in September, when you were a member of the government, the Minister of Social Affairs at the time, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications presented a draft according to which ships should be acquired by a national company. The Ministry also provided a cost-benefit analysis and stated that this would result in expected savings of more than EUR 6 million per year. It's a considerable amount of savings. At the time, as Minister for Social Affairs, you did not challenge it or question it. However, in June this year, you decided that you would not allow such savings for the country. What or who convinced you to give it up?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U37	Thank you. First of all, my compliment to you that you were able to formulate your question very professionally. 'Government policy' would be hard to say. Fortunately, I, too, have so much experience that I knew exactly what kind of policy or field you wanted to ask me. So I'm ready to answer you on these issues. To be honest, on 26 September, which, by the way, I remember well, because it was my birthday, when this decision was made in the government, I myself was on a mission to the United Nations General Assembly and did not participate in this debate. However, this does not mean that I was in any way opposed to the decision at that time, certainly not. Just so you know, I didn't attend this particular government meeting. As far as savings calculations are concerned, the alleged savings calculations have not, in essence, been shown to the public in terms of wood and red. If I remember correctly, they were never shown to the previous government. One of the ways in which savings appear to have occurred was that if the ships were to be purchased by the State, the depreciation costs could be spread over a longer period of time and a longer-term obligation on the State. If you, for example, currently have a car lease for five years and I propose that you extend it to 10 years in order to reduce the monthly payment, but the amount you pay in ten years is several times higher, is it really savings or is it just spreading the same costs over a longer period? That is a philosophical question. The fact is that, unfortunately, by the time my government took office on 26 March, no real steps had been taken at the Ministry of Economic Affairs to comply with this government's order.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U38	Thank you. Just in case, I'm asking if Siim Kisler has any specific questions. Please, Siim Kisler, the first point to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U39	Thank you. I still didn't get an answer to my question, which forced me to change my position or who convinced you to change your mind. However, I cannot accept the argument that there were no calculations at all. This cost-benefit analysis, which was submitted to government members last September and which was also available in writing to those who were not present, is quite thorough and contains specific figures. True, there are no wider arguments available as to why you chose the second, supposedly more expensive route in June this year. I will ask your comment that, in the light of the new decision, the purchase of ships to the Port of Tallinn has now failed. The Minister of Economic Affairs has called it a disappointment. How does it look to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U40	Thank you. First of all, once again, if the spending of ten years is distributed over 30 years and you try to see savings for years, the only honest way is to look at the cost of the entire 30-year period, as was the case in this'saving proposal'. And if you look at the cost of this period together, you'll even see that there was no real savings. Let us not even go into details, which are actually important, because in this case, the law does not even allow a contract to be concluded for a period longer than ten years. The proposal itself was therefore at least not in line with the current law. It must be acknowledged that my government was in a very difficult position when I took office, and Urve Palo was in a very difficult position as Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. Although it had been known for years that the agreement in force in autumn 2016 would end, by 26 March, when Juhan Parts handed over the keys to Urve Palo's office, no real steps had been taken to comply with the Government's decision of 26 September. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications did not have any arrangements in place to purchase ships. In fact, Urve Palo had to start working at the Ministry of Economic Affairs from scratch and look for the most favourable solutions from this point on. Why did it happen that Juhan Parts spoke very loudly for years, and that a solution had to be found, but the result was not even half a fly's nest? How did that happen, you'll probably be able to ask Juhan Parts. I say that you are unfair to Urve Palo if you criticise him now on this subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U41	Thank you. Please, Siim Kisler, the second point of clarification!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U42	Thank you. I'm glad to hear that you're defending Urve Palo and his proposals. But in this light, how does it appear that one point of the Government's decision, adopted on the proposal of Urve Palo, was written in a press release in such a way that the Port of Tallinn of AS failed to participate in the public procurement for reasons of competition? Do you still find in this regard that Urve Palo has done the right thing, and now have we moved on? If you found that it was too slow before, has it been faster now or has it been more like going back?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U43	Yes, it has to be said that the real things Urve Palo has been able to do more in this area for less than six months than Juhan Parts for seven years. You really have to say that. I think we remember those negotiations that lasted about a year and a half so that the state could acquire ships. What happened to the negotiations? You failed, Juhan Duck didn't make it. What happened next? Juhan Parts came to the government and asked for a mandate on 26 September to purchase ships to the Port of Tallinn to provide the service. He received this mandate. The government said yes, be good, do it. I was a member of this government, too. Since I was in the previous government and I am also in the current government, I can say that the previous minister really did nothing to solve the problem, but the current minister is trying to overcome the difficult situation with honour. I don't think it's appropriate that you criticize him for that. Look at what has happened now for less than six months! The procurement has been announced. Unfortunately, there is only one offer for the procurement, I would really be much better pleased if there were several offers. Whether this offer qualifies or not, I don't know yet. Depends on whether the transaction is favourable to the State and whether we can move forward with this bidder in the future. If this is not appropriate for any reason, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications may enter into direct negotiations with potential suppliers, including both the Port of Tallinn and the current carrier, in order to find the best possible solution for the state. But the thing that I am really upset about is that on 26 March, when Urve Palo took over the keys to the office, it was actually too late to start the innovations. By then, the last minister should have done something by now, but he didn't do anything. That's a shame.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U44	Thank you. Now, the matter registered on the spot. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U45	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! We learned that yesterday the cabinet agreed on the state budget for next year. This means that a government concept has been put together on what is planned next year in all areas. My question concerns a part of the budget of the Ministry of Culture, namely the creation of a television channel in Russian. Did the government come to an agreement, what was to come? Is there a separate Russian-language television channel, or is it planned to expand the Russian-speaking zone of existing national broadcasting channels? Or is there a third option?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U46	Thank you. Indeed, we agreed in the government on the main issues of the budget. Both the text of the draft budget and the explanatory memorandum are in preparation at the Ministry of Finance and at the meeting of the Government of the Republic on Tuesday we hope to approve the budget once and for all. As regards the creation of a specific television channel, I would say even more broadly, the development of independent Russian-speaking media in the Republic of Estonia, we had this topic during the debate in the government, if I remember correctly, last Thursday. We will continue this debate tomorrow at the meeting of the Cabinet. I see that the government wants to address these issues very seriously. We all understand that it is not a good thing that a considerable part of Estonian society is in the sphere of influence of media that cannot be called free media and whose messages come from one place vertically. I believe that Estonians whose native language is Russian also have the right to free press and independent media coverage. How this can be achieved and how the country can contribute, we are in the middle of a debate in the government. Like I said, we'll continue tomorrow at the cabinet meeting at 4:00.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U47	Thank you very much. Only one question can be asked locally. Mrs Toobal, unfortunately, there is no second question to be asked. I will finish the discussion on this subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U48	The next question is to Mr Anvelt, Minister of Justice, on public health and alcohol consumption. The questioner is Peter Võsa.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U49	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. On Monday, 15 September, the Estonian Medical Association proposed to the Government and the Riigikogu that the law be amended and that alcohol consumption in public places be prohibited again throughout the country. Alcohol-related injuries, sickness and death will destroy our people and cause great costs to the state. In Europe, alcohol is the second largest factor directly causing more than 60 chronic diseases. In 2010, alcohol-related harm in Europe amounted to around €155.8 billion. When you came up with this legislative amendment, was there some kind of analysis? Do you know how much healthcare expenditure in Estonia will increase as a result?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U50	Thank you, good ambassador. First of all, I'm gonna tell you a little bit about history. Law enforcement law and this provision have not come into our legal space either during this or during the previous government coalition. This law, the law on law enforcement, was passed in early spring 2011. Just to refresh my memory, I also recall that the party you are currently representing voted in this Chamber as one man and a woman in favour of both this law and this provision. Unfortunately, I have no information on how much the provisions of this law were discussed at the time in the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee. What I can say is that according to the coordination papers at the time, very many local authorities and ministries did not agree with the application of this provision, for example, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Agriculture. However, the Riigikogu made a decision. Now, as you may have heard about the media, the Ministry of Justice, together with the Minister for Social Protection, has convened all parties, including local authorities and other interest groups. We are negotiating how to make this legislative provision again so that its implementation does not disturb our fellow citizens. At the same time, I would stress that the damage you have mentioned cannot be reduced by mere bans, but requires a much more comprehensive policy against alcohol consumption.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U51	Thank you. Would Peter Võsa like to be more specific? Please, Peter Võsa, question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U52	Thank you. You will probably be aware that 82% of the population in Estonia are in favour of strict restrictions on alcohol, and this went through yesterday's round table. You have criticised local governments, such as Tallinn, for actively fighting against drunkenness. Can it be concluded that the 82% of people in Estonia who are not in favour of drunkenness will also receive your acute criticism?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U53	Thank you. Looking at the activities of Tallinn City Government, it seems to me that putting up certain signs is not to fight drunkenness, but is to be called on to drink, which is definitely not the purpose of the Law Enforcement Act. At this point, I would like to point out that it is my duty, as Minister of Justice, to monitor compliance with the Riigikogu, which is the law that you have all established. The Law on Orders adopted in 2011 and the implementing provisions introduced in the spring of this year gave the local authorities a very clear definition of where, under which circumstances the local authority may use the broader provisions of the law, the prohibitions applied by the Regulation. It seems to me that it doesn't seem to be the case, but it is the case that the Tallinn City Government clearly exceeded the legal limits and took very hypocritical action. I would like to stress once again that the same party that is currently leading Tallinn and who, just a few years ago, voted here in the Riigikogu as one man and a woman in favour of this provision, is now going to reverse its party's policy at that time and, let's say, is using a hypocritical tone to the people of the city. I would like to say once again that I call on the local authorities to comply with the law. If the law is in some kind of conflict with the will of the local government and its residents, I, as Minister of Justice, consider it my duty to alleviate this conflict and to come up with provisions that satisfy all parties.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U54	Thank you very much. Let's get to the issues registered on the spot. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U55	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! Your claim that the City Government of Tallinn allows Kadriorg and Toompea to drink alcohol, well that really makes them drink. But now my question. You see, this rule of law amendment, which allows alcohol to be consumed openly everywhere, is also linked to the fact that excise duty on alcohol is now starting to rise every year. Once, when the ban on alcohol advertising was discussed in the Riigikogu, Minister Ligi said that we cannot allow such a thing because it harasses the Estonian producer and hits the economy of the country. Are you saying that there is something positive about allowing public consumption of alcohol that you have arranged?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U56	Thank you. I would like to emphasise once again, Mr President, that the provision to allow alcohol consumption has not even been adopted by the current Riigikogu, and this proposal did not come up with the present composition of the government, but is a law adopted in 2011 and approved by your group in every way. When we talk about what Tallinn has achieved with these signs, it is already the regulation that has been violated, that the city's power is showing not those places where alcohol consumption is prohibited, but those places where alcohol consumption is permitted. What if it's not a call? The second thing is that I would not call it a positive one, but rather a sad one, that the same law will even more highlight the serious disease that one part of the Estonian population is suffering, that is, alcoholism and its widespread spread in our country. In other words, since unfortunately they came out from behind the shop, we are seeing this problem particularly acutely. This shows once again that alcohol consumption is not reduced by any bans. The ban can affect so much that young people can't see it if they really drink strong or even softer alcohol at a shop somewhere, they don't advertise it. So I think that these provisions need to be reviewed and a new situation created, not one that your group also voted for in 2011.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U57	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U58	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. First of all, if you find that the City of Tallinn has broken the law by imposing its decree, it is reasonable and appropriate to turn to the court because one city does not comply with the laws of the state. Secondly, I certainly do not agree with what you said that no ban will reduce alcohol consumption. It is very clear and possible to prove that alcohol consumption has been significantly reduced by the ban on the sale of alcohol at night. There are a number of studies carried out by the WHO which show that when advertising restrictions are imposed, especially on strong alcohol, alcohol consumption has decreased significantly. So it is certainly not true of your claim that there is no way to reduce alcohol consumption by refusing to do so. My question concerns the Green Paper on alcohol policy, which has been adopted by the Government. Does the current Law Enforcement Act coincide with the ideas on why a Green Paper on alcohol policy has been drawn up?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U59	Thank you. One important point in the Green Paper is that access to alcohol needs to be reduced. There is a serious conflict here with the same law of order, which actually allows alcohol to be consumed in public places, albeit with very high limits, but still. However, I will add to my previous answer that I do not believe that I will fight against alcoholism with prohibitions. If I made a mistake, I'm sorry. What I'm trying to say is that bans don't cure the disease, that's the real point of my answer. As far as the city of Tallinn is concerned and the application of this regulation and why the Minister of Justice does not go to court with it, it is not within the competence of the Minister of Justice. A conflict between the regulation and the law could be mentioned if a citizen or a guest, for example, appealed against a misdemeanour procedure against him. As we have read in the media and so-called media experiments have revealed, the municipal police of Tallinn have also shattered the shoulders because they do not know how to comply with this decree of the city administration. The regulation does not seem entirely legitimate because it bans the consumption of alcohol throughout the administrative territory of Tallinn, and it essentially limits the rights of many of us even in our apartments in Tallinn, not to mention bars and streets. So the legal wording of this regulation alone raises a lot of questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U60	Thank you. Since only two questions were put by the main questioner, I am giving Annely Akkermann the opportunity to ask a question registered on the spot. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U61	Thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. I fully agree with you that the bans, unfortunately, do not fight against alcoholism. Those people who drank at the market gate and at the children's park when it was banned, they drink now and drink after it's banned again. But I don't agree with one thing. You said that those people who in front of the store are drinking strong and thinner alcohol, like they're advertising it to young people. In my opinion, the picture of drinkers in the middle of the day is more like an anti-advertisement. Don't you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U62	Thank you. It's kind of like how I say it's a bad thing to say so in the case of alcohol, a taste question. As you know, television commercials affect people differently. For example, I personally get pissed off by all kinds of SMS-money ads, and I usually change channels. But for a lot of people, these ads are just about to get a SMS loan. I imagine that it may be exactly the same for young people, some of whom really see a critical sign of their potential future in a person who consumes alcohol in public, while others have a very good opportunity to hang out in a fun way. I therefore think that, in any case, if it is possible to remove this irresponsible behaviour from the street picture, because it is actually the irresponsible behaviour of those who do not care about others and for whom we must restrict the rights of the majority of those who behave properly, then we must get it out of there with some measure. In fact, it is not the right policy to think about just getting the drinkers out of sight behind the store. Rather, they should be sent to treatment and sent on such a path that they do not sleep in stairwells or do other things where, after that, often through the Nightshade, they stand out for us.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U63	Thank you very much. However, we will stop dealing with this issue, although it could be discussed for hours.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U64	Let's go to the next subject. The question is about tax policy for Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. Please, Annely Akkermann!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U65	Thank you very much. Prime Minister! In the 1992 electoral programme, the party Isamaa formulated its own political objectives. These were the following: the party will stop the tax increase; it will introduce proportionate income tax, which is one of the lowest in Europe; it will renew the entire tax system, mainly taxing consumption rather than income. The Fatherland and Res Publica Association have so far implemented these principles and will continue to do so in the future. The day before yesterday, the U.S. think tank published the OECD countries' tax competitiveness index, in which Estonia holds first place. It is true that this study did not pay attention to labour taxes or environmental charges. We could be proud and satisfied if we did not know that Estonian workers are going to work in other countries, because our domestic labour market does not allow us to earn enough wages for decent living. Do you think the Estonian tax system is ready or should we look for new solutions?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U66	Thank you. In 1992 there were still quite a few good ideas for the party in Isamaa. Personally, I like many of the goals of the then Fatherland programme very much. Of course, I would also like to see Res Publica, now, sticking to these principles as well. For example, the uniform income tax that we have been in favour of together is, in my opinion, worth keeping. But that was backlogging back then. This specific study, carried out by a fairly prestigious think tank in the United States, which, by the way, has been established with a very long history already before World War II, if I remember correctly, focuses mainly on the tax burden on companies, including the corporate tax system. This is once again one of the things that we have carried out together, and the preservation and development of which is certainly of great value. However, it is not true that labour taxes have not been taken into account at all in the study. Yeah, it's accounted for. It has also been taken into account that Estonia has a proportionate income tax system and a fairly reasonable rate of income tax. In any case, it is a great recognition. I think that both the Reform Party and the Fatherland of its time have reason to be proud of these decisions. As regards whether the tax system is ready, it is certainly not. Always looking for ways to do things even better.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U67	Thank you. Tarmo Tamm will ask you the final question of this Question Time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U68	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! Estonia should have a good environment in which to develop entrepreneurship. I'm asking why they're not developing. Last year milk was transported from Estonia to Latvia and Lithuania for 71 million euros. Consequently, jobs and entrepreneurship were created in Latvia and Lithuania, but not in Estonia. How do you comment on why this situation has arisen? Why do Latvians get jobs and the state receives taxes, but Estonia does not?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U69	Thank you. It is quite difficult to understand this question, which is exactly what you are complaining about. Is it that Estonia produces 1.7 times more milk than we consume ourselves? Do you complain that Estonian companies export milk? It was a little hard to understand. If you look at job creation, you can say that Estonia has nothing to be ashamed of compared to any neighbour. In Estonia, unemployment has decreased very rapidly and it is a pleasure to say that the jobs created are with higher wages. However, our salary increase was very high both last year and in the first half of this year, much higher than any Estonian neighbour. And it doesn't come by itself. It still comes from creating jobs, doing business and creating a favourable environment. But I'll come back to the original question because I didn't get to the end of it. If it was also a question of which direction the tax system should be further developed, I believe that we should move forward with a policy that is also being implemented by the current government, i.e. by lowering taxes on labour. If you ask any Estonian entrepreneur, labour taxes are the most serious problem and it is necessary to seek both a reduction in the income tax rate and a reduction in the social tax burden. That is where we should move forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U70	Thank you very much. I'm finishing today's briefing. Any questions in time have been exhausted. Thank you very much to the ministers. Question Time's over.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U71	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will start the second working week session of the 8th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. No drafts or requests for information are recommended. Let's do a presence check. 80 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, no 21. Honourable Riigikogu, I would like to ask your attention because we will specify the agenda. On today's 15th item, Tarmo Tamm, Vice-President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, will make a presentation at the first reading of the draft Act amending the Local Government Organisation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U72	Yesterday we were in the middle of a debate on the Social Welfare Act, the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and the Amendment of Other Laws Act 693 at first reading. He was not in the process of asking questions to the representative of the initiator, Minister of Social Affairs Helmen Küt. I'm asking for the minister's chair! The order of business is Tarmo Tammel, who can ask his second question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U73	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. First of all, I am sorry that you had to change your schedule today because of my question. But the question...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U74	I'm sorry! Honourable Riigikogu! [[It's ringing the bell, there's noise in the hall.]] Let's go!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U75	... is that, if companies are paid this salary allowance within one year, whether in a year's time, the situation cannot arise that the workers they have hired will be released, because that salary allowance was the motivation that forced them to employ.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U76	Thank you very much, Madam President. Members of the Riigikogu, there is no reason to apologise at all; I am always happy to come to this hall. I guess three years have been sitting here, and thank you so much for getting a chance to come back here today! But I do not believe that there is such fear and danger that the people who worked for the year, who have done their job and who have received wage subsidies from the state, will be dismissed. And wage subsidies are not the only measure, there are very many measures that have to motivate the employer. But above all, I believe that those people who worked for the year have proved that they are worthy workers.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U77	Thank you very much. Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U78	Thank you. Dear Minister, I happened to be watching "Actual Camera" the night before last. You were in a direct studio, and you were asked to understand the situation. It was argued, inter alia, that the target groups to whom the draft is intended are very dissatisfied and require the initiator to withdraw the draft from the procedure. You said that you are still trying to do your best and, after first reading, it is possible to correct the bill and that you are so active in this because things are all very bad right now. The launch position was bad. Would you remind us who was Minister of Social Affairs before you? Who prepared this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U79	Good questioner! Yesterday I answered this question several times as Minister for Social Protection, but I am happy to repeat it today. Yesterday I also stated in this hall that I am not the type of person who says that there was nothing before me and no one comes after me. This work has been done for a very long, really long time. Certainly, after I have left, there will be a new Minister for Social Protection who will say that these errors and those errors must be corrected. With time, things are gonna change. The Labour Capacity Reform Act came to the Riigikogu in a different way; the Social Affairs Committee already gave examples of this yesterday. Many thanks to the Committee on Social Affairs and the social partners for their joint work. But yes, situations are changing dramatically. I am convinced that Parliament is not all that comes from the government or ministries without saying a word, and will adopt it without changing anything. You know how sad it was for me to sit in this room for three years, unfortunately in opposition. Very many good ideas and proposals did not go beyond the Commission. However, it was nice to talk to the Commission, and I would very much like to congratulate Mr Tsahkna, who has listened. In my opinion, Estonia is a parliamentary state, and if something is wrong and wrong, it must be changed. In any case, I will do everything I can to continue this line. More legislative proposals for Parliament, where it can be decided, not so much on the basis of party policy, but on the basis of social policy!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U80	Thank you very much. Please, George Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U81	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Dear Minister for Social Protection, I have a question for you. Please think back to the debate that was in this Chamber yesterday on Bill 693. Today you're here again to answer the questions. In general, there is the notion that tomorrow we will always be a little smarter than yesterday. Do you have something on your mind today that you would like to say in addition to your answers and comments yesterday? Maybe there's a new nuance you'd like to clarify. I'm asking you from this point of view.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U82	Thank you very much. I guess morning is always smarter than night. But new nuances will appear on September 25th. Together with Urmas Kruus, we have invited all the social partners, employers, trade unions, to a common table for this day, so that the issues that remain upstairs after 1 March 2015 are not overlooked. It is not known who will form the next government. I call on all parties to sign the goodwill agreement and to take on social policy commitments today, either in the coalition or in the opposition.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U83	Thank you. Please, Priit Onion!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U84	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister for Social Protection! Reading the opinion of the target groups, it seems to me that, unfortunately, nothing has changed during this debate. I wanted to see how you felt. If you look at the target groups, they will be left with concerns and problems, and they will not support this draft. What gave you the assurance or the understanding that you should come to Parliament with this bill right now? And why do you think that in the meantime something has changed during the proceedings? Why did you say when you answered Helir-Valdor Seeder's question that the situation was different than when you were here? How do you know something's changed in this house in the meantime?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U85	Thank you very much for your question. Firstly, I certainly do not believe that nothing has changed and that the proposals of the social partners have not been taken into account. When the draft working capacity reform arrives in the Chamber, you will see how many amendments there are. Secondly, these two draft laws must go hand in hand and there was actually a mistake, just this time has been very short, that they came here at different times. They should have received the Social Committee of the Riigikogu one day. That is why it is necessary to conclude the first reading today in order to deal with these two draft laws jointly. They must be considered, assuming that they function as a whole. Unfortunately, two laws cannot solve all the social problems of people with special needs in Estonia. However, it is possible to write down on a point-by-point basis with a goodwill agreement, which we want to change in social welfare and in the social field at all. And I believe that this agreement can be made. What's changed in this hall? I'm talking about personal experience. When I presented proposals or questions as a member of the Riigikogu, and sometimes I was able to make very good suggestions in my opinion, they were relatively rarely listened to. True, it must be acknowledged that this red border, which was between the coalition and the opposition, really disappeared in the case of one bill. This was a draft tabled by the opposition, which, unfortunately, concerned the deletion of children's parents' student loans for serious disability. Then the border disappeared, and everyone understood the problem. I would like once again to congratulate the Social Affairs Committee, which was then chaired by Margus Tsahkna, and the Committee on Culture, led by Urmas Klaas, who, even though the position of the Government of the Republic was negative, I do not know whether it was because the bill was presented by the opposition or because the money was simply not found. And the bill came to this hall and was passed as a law. As of 1 January 2014, parents of children with severe disabilities will have the opportunity to take out student loans that the country will delete. So I'm talking about my personal experience. As a member of the Riigikogu, I felt that I could only choose between two buttons. That was almost it. At the moment, I feel that the parliamentary state is working. Parliament makes proposals, and the right to life is not just about the ministries or the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U86	Thank you very much. Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U87	Madam Minister! You have just expressed very optimistic hope that a new Minister for Social Protection will come in your place someday. But maybe there should be a new Social Minister. My question is based on the fact that at present this draft is, as between two ministers, and, as we know, the positions of the two parties and their political groups are quite different with regard to the draft. Perhaps you will comment on whether a situation in which the draft is pending with two different positions in the Minister's proceedings will be of benefit to the future of the draft. Perhaps this discussion is fertile. In short, this situation has not been in Parliament for a long time and I would ask you to comment on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U88	Thanks for the question, Jaak. What do you want me to say to that? I'm gonna say, like at home, we'll probably get things straightened out and settled in the ministry. I do not have the problem at the moment that we cannot cooperate with Urmas Kruus, Minister of Health and Labour, or that we have some sharp disagreements that should be resolved either in the Chamber of the Riigikogu or somewhere else. We have different opinions, yes, it is. But this is also the case sometimes at home, where things are discussed and solutions are sought. Sometimes they disagree, and then they decide how to proceed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U89	There are no further questions for the Minister for Social Protection. Thank you, Helmen Hunter! We'll continue. Jüri Jaanson, Member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Chair, will accompany the presentation. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U90	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister for Social Protection, Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Welfare Act, the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and the Act amending other laws 693 were discussed by the Social Affairs Committee in four sessions. The first meeting, which was on 17 June. a, we heard the Ministry of Social Affairs' detailed overview of the draft law. It was presented by Chief Specialist of the Welfare Department, Bärbel Brave. The draft will continue to implement the work capacity reform by reshaping the organisation of rehabilitation and the allocation of aid resources. The main message of the Ministry of Social Affairs during the presentation of the bill was that the biggest change was in the organisation of rehabilitation. At the moment, a person is being rehabilitated, but those in need may not receive this service. The service is not in need at all, and often people get help too late. There is no holistic approach; instead, there are individual services. Quality is also uneven. A holistic approach would mean that the system for assessing the ability to work, established by the Act, supports the provision of appropriate rehabilitation to a person, whether as a social service to get a job, to continue working or to support everyday life. Occupational rehabilitation will continue through the unemployment fund, and social rehabilitation to support everyday life through the Social Insurance Board. The questions of the members of the Social Committee focused mainly on the question of working ability and disability assessment, the principle of whether the needy should undergo one or two assessments. Two assessments mean that the existence of a disability is assessed at the Social Insurance Board and the capacity to work is determined on the basis of an application by the unemployment fund. From now on, they will try to bring them together, but it is not real at the moment, because the part of assessing the ability to work must follow the assessment of the disability, so this can be harmonised. As regards the system of allocation of aid, we learned that the administration of the system of distribution of aids managed by the current committees of rural governments goes to the Social Insurance Board. At present, the availability of aid instruments across regions is uneven, and this concern should disappear in the future. The issue of aids also focused on the specificities of social and labour needs. Basically, if a person needs some kind of tool for everyday life, then in order to do a job, this tool sometimes needs to be a little more functional. Therefore, in cooperation with the unemployment fund and the Social Insurance Board, the tool is determined according to the needs of the workplace. In short, the first session took note of what was heard during the review and decided to continue the debate on the implementation of the work capacity reform in September. The second session, held on 26 August, on the hot summer day, decided to propose a draft law to be put on the agenda for the 693 plenary session by 11 September. The third meeting was held at the beginning of the new plenary session on 8 September. Once again, the draft law was discussed briefly and decisions were taken. The draft law was first removed from the agenda of the plenary session of 11 September, at the request of the minister and after negotiations with the Riigikogu's management. We decided to propose that it be placed on the plenary agenda by 17 September, that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments be set at 3 October at 15. All these decisions were adopted by consensus in the Committee on Social Affairs. In addition, the draft law 693 was also discussed at the fourth session on 15 September, or Monday. There we reviewed the entire plan for financing the work capacity reform. The draft legislation on labour capacity reform 678 and 693, i.e. the draft law on work capacity support and the draft law amending the Social Welfare Act, the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and other laws. The financing plan was submitted by the Head of the Fiscal Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance. We have an overview of how the funds are distributed and how much money we can get from the European Social Fund, the state budget and the unemployment fund to cover the funding. In addition, on 15 September we discussed the latest developments concerning this draft law. Our questions were answered by the Head of Social Welfare Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs. The content of these reports was noted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U91	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you, Jüri Jaanson! I'm opening negotiations. Mr Tsahkna would like to speak as a representative of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U92	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The draft amending the Social Welfare Act and the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act is one of the most complex drafts. However, it is perhaps the most important draft of this political season, given its budgetary impact. After all, this involves a major reform, which the government has prepared, of course, I mean a reform of the capacity for work. The Social Affairs Committee has worked very hard to discuss the reform of working capacity and the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, Heljo Pikhof, has to be commended. While many members of the Riigikogu simply met voters during the summer, the Social Affairs Committee sat together for days and listened to the opinions and suggestions of people with disabilities, people with special needs, as well as partner organisations on the reform of working capacity. In principle, most of their concerns relate not to the draft law on capacity support for work, but to the amendment of the Social Welfare Act and the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act. So what's the problem? None of the disability organisations or other partner organisations, nor the IRL, has challenged the objective of the labour capacity reform. The aim is to bring people with special needs into the labour market, with greater participation in society. We are absolutely in the same position as the government that the current system of capacity for work, or rather of incapacity for work, is unsustainable. Unfortunately, we have reached a situation where almost all organisations of people with special needs and people with disabilities are very clearly opposed to this reform. They have put forward a number of proposals that have not been taken into account so far. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U93	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U94	Most of the proposals relate to the Social Welfare Act, which we are discussing here today. The bill has come from the government in a bit of a hurry, and just as with the entire labour force reform, the Riigikogu also has to work very hard on this draft. What are the main problems? Above all, the problem is that if we want to implement a labour capacity reform, it requires good social care services. Only then will people with special needs be able to actively enter the labour market and interfere with society, to have a say in it. For years, the problem has persisted that we have a large number of municipalities, their income base is very different and social welfare services in Estonia are at very different levels. The Ministry of Social Affairs has quite a fresh analysis, but a great deal of research has been done over the years. The problem with the amendment of the Social Welfare Act before us today is that the local authorities have not been specifically prescribed services. The establishment of standards for social welfare services has been discussed for many years, but due to the lack of agreement between municipalities and the state, they have not been established. We have the opportunity to introduce these standards here in the Riigikogu, together with the reform of working capacity. Without essential services, the reform of working capacity makes no meaningful sense, i.e. the objective of creating 15 000 jobs for people who are currently away from the labour market, mostly those with special needs, we are not fulfilling. Another major objective concerns employers, or those who create jobs. Compared to the current measures, there is no real progress in motivating them, there are no motives for employers to create jobs. In this same amendment to the Social Welfare Act and to the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act, we should very seriously discuss these motivational measures so that employers start employing more people with special needs. They may also concern other laws, whether or not the Public Procurement Act or some tax law, I mean social tax. For example, companies with a certain percentage of people with special needs at work could receive some additional points or advantage in public procurement, or they would be able to pay less social tax on people with special needs. Currently, to a certain extent, this less social tax payment applies, but it does not motivate the employer. One particular big issue that has been left aside is the caretakers. The minister also said that we have 11308 people who care for their loved ones at home. These are healthy and educated people who should actually work, but because of the lack of social welfare services, they perform their duty to a close person and care for him/her 24/7 for very low carer support. These people are the easiest to get back into the labour market. They need specific services to work, even in part. These are not included in this draft law and those who take care of themselves are completely excluded from the target group of the entire labour capacity reform. This, however, is a very serious issue. However, in view of the debate we have had in the Committee on Social Affairs, the understanding that we have to implement these services, we need to deal more with our own carers and implement the so-called one-door policy, so that a person with disabilities or special needs does not have to follow different assessments, in my opinion, is general. There is no political party policy in this regard. Unfortunately, the government has not come up with any proposals in this regard. I hope the Riigikogu will do the job. IRL supports the proposal to conclude the first reading today. The general position of the Committee on Social Affairs is that we are linking the work capacity reform to this draft and that it is not possible to take them together. Finally, I would like to say that the vast majority of disability organisations have launched a campaign on the Petition.ee page to collect support signatures in favour of the proposals for the employment capacity reform. Our common position could be the recognition that we must not reform simply because of the reform, if almost all of this sector, all those people who are in a difficult situation every day, people with special needs, people with disabilities, are opposed to it if we do not listen to their proposals. Please check the proposals made by these organisations between the first and second readings, read this petition as well, and sign it as well as if you wish. We will put this bill in order, because without a proper law, there is no point in implementing a very costly and substantial work capacity reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U95	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Centre Party Group, please speak to Mrs Tuus-Laul. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U96	Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, there has been a great deal of work on this draft legislation on the reform of working capacity, but unfortunately I have a feeling that it will not work in this form. I do not think that the law can be done, however, in such a way that blanks from the ministry come completely unthinkable and are pushed to the first reading, and after that they will be filled in spaces in repeated public and ordinary sessions as well as in summer. All of this has caused people with disabilities a great deal of panic and enormous fear. I do not so much want to blame the current government, the chairman of the Social Affairs Committee or anyone on the committee, but the previous social ministers, Hanno Pevkur and Taavi Rõiva, who had several years to do this reform. Now we see that this has absolutely not been done. The current government is panicking to adopt some of the draft legislation on labour capacity reform. However, all this work has been incomplete, there are too many gaps where we have not received any answers. In this sense, the enterprise is beyond the power of the government. Time, however, insists. Yes, with the reform coming into force there is now time, it has been postponed. But we are fundamentally amending the law concerning 100,000 people with disabilities touches their lives and the lives and destiny of those close to them. It was also known in the past that European money needed to be used up. The main question is why the Ansip government did not bring out this draft earlier, which prevented it from doing so in the previous coalition. Right now, we're really in front of a broken trough. There are so many questions and outstanding gaps. And the officials of the ministries can't answer. Ministers are mainly listening to the Commission and, in summary, it can be said that at present there is a desire to adopt laws that will still have to be written up in the future. Sülvi Sarapuu, Chairman of the Board of the Estonian Central Association of Visual Disabled People, has described this bill very precisely. He has said that the work capacity reform is like a house that the state has been building for several years, forcing disabled people to move in by order, but he is still planning to build the stairs and then tear them down again, because the stairs were unexpectedly in the way of other jobs. Then the big committee comes to accept the house, but it turns out that the walls that carry the roof are fluctuating in the wind. That's exactly the way it is right now. The Employment Allowance Act is accompanied by several laws and we know that the government is unable to adopt them. Now they go the easy way of resistance, make a social agreement. There is a question about what it is going to be about. Is it because we're delaying the Troubles? The Minister said here yesterday that all the problems will be recorded in this agreement. I think that such a mapping should have been done before this draft was drawn up. If we look at what the future welfare code on our table is going to offer, we will see that the circle of recipients of rehabilitation is being restricted, and it becomes mainly professional. If it has anything to do with getting a job, it's allowed. However, for those who are already on the job, there are also 40,000 inability-to-work pensioners, only a symbolic amount is planned in the budget for the capacity-to-work reform. It's half a percent of the amount of the professional rehabilitation service, so it's a non-existent amount. However, for those who are unable to work and who do not qualify for rehabilitation, the explanatory memorandum states that they will continue to receive help from the medical system in the form of "rehabilitation', as well as services from the municipality. We do not see any new mechanism using which health would buy more services for these people at the moment. There are no standards for social services, which we have talked about a lot and which would harmonise the assistance provided by local authorities. We know that some large municipalities, such as Tallinn, are able to offer many of them, small municipalities are not at all. The types and volume of services provided should be established in order to ensure a more uniform support. Necessary aids - crutches, prostheses, hearing aids and all such things - are for work use only according to the work ability reform plan. One tool at home, another at work. From somewhere in the world, it gets to absurdity, and it doesn't exactly know what the regulation is. Of course, support services are needed to enable a person to go to work. We have talked a lot about them here: personal helper, supporter for people with mental disabilities, sign language translation service. The Minister said yesterday that the translation of sign language will be all over Estonia and evenly. At the same time, we know that even the biggest events do not have a sign - language interpreter at any other time. The forecasts of the Ministry of Finance are highly optimistic: we employ 3,000 people every year, 15,000 every five years and, from 2020, when EU funds fall away, the necessary money comes from taxes on people who have gone to work. Neither the people with disabilities nor the members of the Commission have received an answer as to where these jobs come from. It is said, of course, that the state does not create jobs, but we are referring to the fact that 'half-capacity' jobs are much more expensive for the employer. The Minister has listed the incentives that the state seems to offer, but we have not read them out of the law. Today we met Toomas Tamsar, CEO of the Employers' Confederation, and he said that it was a super expensive reform and he thought it was very raw. You gotta start somewhere, but it's not going to work as it is. He also said that many people have become unemployed during the economic crisis and have started receiving disability pensions. It's bad to punish these really disabled people, let's say, these real cripples by having to go through a huge gauntlet. It's unfair to them. Of course, as has already been said here, the problem of carers is completely unsolved. A number of people are forced to stay at home, and these are people that would be easy to bring back into the labour market. Issues relating to education have not been addressed as the provision of education to these people needs to be adapted. But there is no need for these people to be left uneducated and to do the easiest job of all. These are a few examples, but there are many shortcomings in the system, and the organisations of disabled people have said that if they do not get answers to these questions, they will come to a country-wide picket before rural governments. That would be embarrassing. We can say that, unfortunately, the current government has already noticed that people with disabilities came here to Toompea for the first time in Estonian history with wheelchairs and crutches. I'd like to solve these problems in a better way. People with disabilities are very clearly demanding time-out, a new reform agenda, a very systematic process, and on the right footing. I think we got one bill pretty much better, but there are questions about the rest, and some things are completely unfinished. We should implement all of this very calmly and systematically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U97	Thank you. Please, Heljo Pikhof on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U98	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! First of all, I would like to thank the members of the Social Affairs Committee, who, regardless of their political party, have worked hard and thought along in the summer. Indeed, as Marika said, this first draft package has already got much, much better, although there is still work to be done. I hope that the draft that we are dealing with today will be much better for us in the Committee on Social Affairs. All of this gives hope, however, that the various groups, regardless of whether they belong to the coalition or to the opposition, will all agree. Let's talk a little bit about the positive side of the bill. The draft is part of the package accompanying the labour capacity reform and a large part of it concerns social welfare services. The current rehabilitation service is divided into two parts: occupational rehabilitation and social rehabilitation. The draft provides for an ex-ante assessment of social rehabilitation, so the service becomes targeted and needs-based. The organisation of the allocation of technical assistance funds brings regulation based on rural governments to the Social Insurance Board. This is primarily aimed at supporting the achievement of the objectives of the employment capacity reform and ensuring the availability of technical equipment equally for all Estonian residents, regardless of which county they live in. The need for an instrument will be identified in the unemployment fund for a person with partial working capacity and, if he or she has such a need, he or she will also be able to obtain it. At present, people are in an unequal situation, and people in different counties may have different opportunities to receive aids. In the regulation of both rehabilitation and the provision of technical assistance, it will be different from the current one that a person can choose from where he or she buys the aid. In other words, there are no more service contracts, the person goes to the company and the money moves with him. The draft has been drawn up on the basis of the principle that there should be as little duplication as possible so that the person who turns to the Social Insurance Board can immediately receive the service provided to him or her. The current system has upset people with disabilities for years. A man is going to have an expensive rehabilitation plan, which costs 200 euros and more, but often nothing but to put it in a desk drawer. It is also annoyed that if a suitable service cannot be obtained or the queues are long, the person is directed to receive a service he does not need. In the case of a new system, the applicant will receive both together, i.e. the plan and the directing service will be available immediately. If there's a line, you'll have to wait a little bit. Unfortunately, there are queues now, especially when we are talking about social rehabilitation. According to the draft, the provision of rehabilitation services will take place on a programme-based basis, i.e. the evaluation will already identify the human indication. Here is an example. Suppose a person has brain damage or something like that. In this case, the service provider has already developed a suitable programme in the past and this allows the pre-estimation period to direct the person already in need to receive the aid specifically provided for in that programme. There's no need to draw up a rehabilitation plan anymore. This plan will only be drawn up in very complex cases. And the team is no longer five, as before, but three. The ex-ante evaluation will be carried out by the Social Insurance Board and will employ specialists who will do this work. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U99	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U100	Employability rehabilitation will be a labour market service and will be provided on the basis of an individual action plan, not on the basis of a rehabilitation plan. It is very important that the volume of services foreseen per year is growing. If we take the volume of employment rehabilitation services, it will grow very much, to EUR 1 500 per person per year. Regarding social rehabilitation, a ministry official in the Social Affairs Committee said that this amount would probably be EUR 1200 per person per year. It all shows that people are getting more services. Therefore, their needs should also be covered. There are certainly special cases when the amount of money must be much higher so that a person can get the help he needs. Happy for what? We are pleased that it is not possible to air public money, i.e. to draw up meaningless REHA plans that have frustrated people with disabilities for years. The Social Democrats support the processing of the draft in the Riigikogu as our coalition partners and opposition partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U101	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 693. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft. a 3 October at 15 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U102	We're going to the next item. This is the first reading of the draft Act supplementing the Law of the Chancellor of Justice, initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, 663. Mr Peep Aru, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, would you like to present the speech chair?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U103	Dear Vice-Chairman and ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Constitutional Affairs announced that a draft was initiated by the Constitutional Committee of the 663 Chancellor of Justice on the amendment of the law. The specific motivation was to address the Chancellor of Justice to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and several other committees of the Riigikogu in order to clarify his rights and also his obligations in this area. The Constitutional Commission discussed the draft law and its explanatory memorandum drawn up by the Chancellor of Justice's Office several times, and we also made certain changes together with the Chancellor of Justice. Today, the bill has reached its first reading. What is the purpose of the bill? The bill complements the law of the Chancellor of Justice and provides for the explicit task of the Chancellor of Justice to monitor compliance with fundamental rights and freedoms of persons in the organisation of the collection, processing, use and supervision of personal data and related information by the authorities of the executing State. The aim of the draft is to establish more clearly the competence of the Chancellor of Justice to verify the discreet processing of personal data, thereby stressing the importance of the supervision of the Chancellor of Justice, as an independent authority analysing the constitutionality of legislation and monitoring compliance with fundamental rights, in this area of intensive interference with fundamental rights and for society as a whole in a sensitive state's field of activity. It is also intended to emphasise that the supervision of the Chancellor of Justice in this area is regular and proactive; it is not based solely on the resolution of individual complaints. This legislative amendment is also intended to give a clear signal to society and the authorities involved, by means of separate production in this area, that the Chancellor of Justice has the authority to supervise the discreet processing of data. It must be said that effective control of the surveillance and security sectors is a prerequisite for democracy and the rule of law to function. This is undisputedly one of the procedural guarantees relating to the legality of surveillance activities. In doing so, monitoring of surveillance activities in the rule of law cannot be done by just one institution; this work is divided between several supervisory authorities and types of supervision, so that a monitoring system has been set up. In the monitoring of surveillance activities, a distinction can be made between judicial, administrative, parliamentary, expert and independent control, as well as checks based on the complaint system. In this case, we are dealing with the rights and obligations conferred on the independent authority in this control system. Some time ago, in May 2009, a conference of parliamentary committees was held in Tallinn for monitoring the intelligence and security services of the European Union, Switzerland and Norway. Point 3 of the declaration adopted there underlines that all countries that participated in the conference should pay attention to the introduction of independent external controls. We have reached this threshold here in Estonia. Everything in the explanatory memorandum is written in more detail. I believe that all members of the Riigikogu have been familiar with this. On the draft we initiated, the position of the Government of the Republic also arrived, the general tone of which is such that the Government decided to support the draft at its meeting on 12 June. We were also given the views of the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence, where there were some suggestions on how the draft law could be improved. The Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu discussed sending the draft to first reading on 8 September. This meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was also attended by Chancellor of Justice Indrek Teder, Senior Adviser to the Chancellor of Justice Mait Laaring, Adviser to the Public Law Department of the Ministry of Justice, Sander Põllumäe, Adviser to the Internal Security Policy Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs Jaarek Konsa, Adviser to the Political Planning Department of the Ministry of Defence Maris Riisenberg, Deputy Director General of the Defence Police Department Martin Arpo and Head of Legal Department of the Information Department Mail Mark. So everyone affected by this draft law, either in the form of institutions or in the form of higher institutions, was represented at this meeting. To describe the toneality of this meeting, I shall first refer to Rait Marust, who said that the law of the Chancellor of Justice could be supplemented and clarified in terms of the powers of supervision of the Chancellor of Justice. Consideration should be given to the possibility of entrusting the Chancellor of Justice with the task of developing the internal rules of procedure of the Chancellery of the Chancellor of Justice for the exercise of the powers of supervision in question. If the Chancellor of Justice checks how the authorities comply with the rules and procedures, he must also be able to follow certain procedures and rules. It is also necessary for the various authorities to have a functioning internal control system. The visits of the Chancellor of Justice to the various institutions should be comparable and should take place according to procedures, method and on a regular basis. Certainly, the regulation of the draft should be clarified in such a way as not to give the impression that the Chancellor of Justice would be able to replace or control the actions of the courts. The court will rule on individual cases, assess the merits of specific actions and comply with the law. The Chancellor of Justice will analyse the functioning of the system as a whole, whether there are legitimate regulations, procedures and supervision. Once these questions are in place, the Chancellor of Justice should not intervene in the content of individual cases. The regulation should also reflect circumstances preventing access to state secrets and classified external information in order to protect the specific work of the authorities. For example, § 19 (2) of the Act on the status of a member of the Riigikogu clearly states four exceptions when access to state secrets and classified foreign information may be restricted to a member of the Riigikogu. They relate in particular to the need to protect the source of security information and not to jeopardise the methods and ongoing operations of the security authority, as well as the persons involved and the secrecy of cooperation. A representative of the Defence Police pointed out a third-party rule, which probably also needs to be fixed in some way in the regulation. If this is guaranteed by law, then the other party will have greater confidence and courage to cooperate. All the participants at this meeting expressed the view that small changes after the first reading, the preparation for the second reading could be approved by means of clarifications and that the law of the Chancellor of Justice could indeed be amended. I'm not going to read these details separately, but everyone's story was more or less the same, each a little bit of their own. The Commission adopted the following procedural decisions: First of all, to send the draft to the plenary session of the Riigikogu yesterday, but yesterday became today. We also propose that the first reading be completed and that the deadline for amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 1 October 2014. All the decisions were taken by consensus, including the fact that I'm on the remote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U104	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U105	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I will read an explanatory note with the phrase 'hidden collection and further processing of personal data, carried out primarily by surveillance and security authorities in Estonia' in black and white. If we take this bill, I don't know if it turns out a little later that the Chancellery of the Chancellor of Justice has been added to this line where it has been said that only the surveillance and security authorities work in this sphere. Don't you think there's a chance for others to do the job today? Why are we putting this task on the Chancellor of Justice and his office?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U106	Indeed, both surveillance authorities and security authorities are involved in discreet surveillance activities. So the security authority is in two roles here. But to the Chancellor of Justice, we don't make an obligation to observe someone in secret. We give the Chancellor of Justice a clear independent authority control function. It's completely different. Like I said, control of things like this is systemic. I have also read here that supervision is first distinguished from internal controls, as well as parliamentary, expert and independent officials and checks based on a system of complaints. The Chancellor of Justice will fill the gap in Estonia so far, starting to carry out an independent official review. This should give everyone in Estonian society confidence that everything that security and surveillance institutions do is legal and that people's fundamental rights are violated as little as possible and only by law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U107	Thank you very much. Please, Jaanus Tamkivi!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U108	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, I wonder whether the Commission was also talking about whether, if this bill becomes a law, the Chancellor of Justice's team would also need additional strength.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U109	There is no need for additional staff to the Chancellor of Justice's team. The budget is sufficient to fulfil this function and, if there are personal problems, it is possible to solve them with the existing composition.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U110	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U111	Thank you. I'm still complaining about the part of the sentence I touched on on the first question. In my opinion, control means we're working on this information. The biggest concern, however, is that the circle of people who receive information about you and me and other people is expanding.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U112	How's that? By controlling those who do so, there is no doubt that certain information will be received, but the purpose is not to receive that information. The aim is to check whether the hidden surveillance activities carried out have been carried out legally and as little as possible by violating the fundamental rights of people. And certainly these people also have a duty not to talk.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U113	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 663. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 663 amendments. a on 1 October at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U114	Honourable Riigikogu! The next item is the first reading of Bill 702 of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the Riigikogu's decision 'Construction of the Special Committee on State Budget Control' submitted by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The rapporteur is Meelis Mälberg. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U115	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Group of the Estonian Reform Party initiated this draft decision due to the fact that two members of our group were elected to the europarlamento and their alternates have joined the group. The renewed membership of the political group also implies that we review our internal responsibilities and renew the representation in the special committee on state budget control. We propose to appoint Mr Andre Sepp as alternate member of the Special Committee on State Budget Control, instead of Mr Aivar Sõerd. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U116	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. The rapporteur for the Constitutional Commission is Peep Aru. Please! You're just in time, ambassador!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U117	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, The debate on such a good draft in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was very short and concrete. There were no questions, we went straight to the decision-making process. That is what we did by consensus. From yesterday's agenda here in the Riigikogu, this bill was transferred to today, regardless of the Commission's will. We decided to propose that the first reading be completed and that the deadline for amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 18 September. We also have a suggestion that, if the first reading is completed today, the second reading will be held on 25 September, when the final vote will also be taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U118	Any questions for the Commission's waitress? There are no questions. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The Governing Commission's proposal is to close the first reading of draft 702, and there are no other proposals. The deadline for amendments to Bill 702 is 18 September at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U119	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Riigikogu Election Act and other laws initiated by the Isamaa and Res Publica factions. Ken-Marti Vaheri to waitress, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U120	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Draft 666 initiated by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, which is a draft law amending the Riigikogu Election Act and other laws, has been initiated with the aim of preventing and also preventing the hidden use of public funds for election advertising. The most serious problem has emerged at the level of local governments, especially in Tallinn, where this problem has unfortunately been topical in the run-up to quite a number of elections. Regrettably, this also happened a few months ago before the election of the European Parliament. Our clear desire is to propose some measures to change this practice in Estonia. The Riigikogu election campaign has essentially begun; we have less than six months until the next elections. This bill wants to change this practice, as well as the attitudes of using the printed media and audiovisual media financed by the municipality to reap the obvious political benefits. Public funds are used corruptly for personal gain. In autumn 2013, several Riigikogu bodies discussed this practice, including the Special Committee against Corruption. Decisions have been taken and assessments have been made on specific cases. As is known, law enforcement authorities are also active in this matter, but a little under the second rate and using the possibilities available in the Penal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure. However, the problem is not limited to the election of local authorities; it extends to other elections. The draft proposes changes to the Local Government Council Election Act, improvements to the Riigikogu Election Act and additions to the European Parliament Election Act. Specifically, the content of the draft is very brief. We want to put a stop to the misuse of taxpayers' money and to the unfair influence of election results. We wish to prohibit the use of local government resources for electoral intervention. According to the draft law, the municipality is prohibited from publishing relevant publications and other media services during an active electoral campaign known to be 40 days, advertising in any form. This prohibition would include advertising published in media publications, including online advertising, publications issued or on-demand by the municipality, including newspapers, audiovisual media and other media services, as laid down by law. With the same objective, another draft has been submitted to the proceedings of the Riigikogu, which has become the subject of significant changes during the proceedings. Hopefully, this will continue in the autumn. We have chosen a slightly different method of regulation than in draft 497. Discussions, as well as in real life, have revealed very clear practices that use borderline, even hard to prove techniques. So it is not easy to regulate all of this, to lay down precisely in law, but we have proposed a solution that could change this practice in real life. In short, the problem is that, although political outdoor advertising is banned by law during active electoral agitation, and this ban has had a real impact on the behaviour of political parties, it has not, in essence, prevented several municipalities from using unacceptable techniques. The ban we have proposed is extensive, there are a number of restrictions. In particular, there is a very clear time limit. In order to ensure proportionality, a time limit of 40 days is proposed, which would apply during active electoral intervention in exactly the same way as in political outdoor advertising. There is also a very clear provision concerning the transmission of notifications resulting from the emergency notification regulation, as well as those for which the obligation to publish arises from the law. There are quite a few kinds of them. I know that there was a brief debate on this provision in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The fact that the prohibition proposed in the draft text is too extensive has been suggested. I think that this is far from the aim of this draft, so that the ban is extensive, rather it could be limited. Of course, it is possible to include specific provisions in the draft, bearing in mind the possibilities for which there can be no doubt that any announcements or promotional campaigns will be used for the purpose of political intervention, but it is clear that they are necessary for the normal operation of a legal person established by an organisation, institution or local authority. Paragraphs 1 (2), 2 (2) and 3 (2) also provide for compositions of misdemeanours. Therefore, these provisions are guaranteed by sanctions, as they also apply to breaches of restrictions on political outdoor advertising. I hope that we will move forward on this draft, in the same way as we do with draft 497. I think it is reasonable to look at these drafts in some form as a whole. As a rapporteur for the draft, I consider it very important that during the autumn the Riigikogu makes a decision that could change certain attitudes and political culture even before the start of an active campaign to elect the Riigikogu. I very much hope that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will make its decisions on this particular issue fairly quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U121	Questions for the waitress. Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U122	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! For each of the three selections, in the relevant section, paragraph 1 reads as follows: "A local government is prohibited from publishing and distributing any form of advertising, publications and media services during an active electoral intervention. " How do the initiators view the expression 'is forbidden to publish media services in any form' on the websites of the municipalities on the Internet? Is there a risk that, with such strong wording, websites will have to be closed 40 days before the elections?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U123	Thank you for your question. The websites of the municipalities are information media, through which regular information on the activities of local authorities is provided, and the purpose of this draft is not to paralyse the normal activities of the local government. The aim of the draft is to change current practice, which unfortunately has been implemented by some municipalities. The prohibitions in the current laws have been circumvented and public funds have been used for private purposes. I would remind you that the same provision has been in the Anti-Corruption Act since 1 April 2013: § 5 talks in depth about the corrupt use of a public instrument. An analogous provision is also contained in the Penal Code, which § 201 refers to the introduction. Despite this and the sanctions foreseen, the practice has not been changed and, unfortunately, it has had a significant impact on the results of the elections. Certain individuals and certain political forces have, in essence, been able to create advantages for themselves. In my opinion, this is not reasonable and the Riigikogu should not tolerate it. Your suspicion that this future law will not in any way harm the normal life of a local government is justified, but my answer to this question is a definite no. Of course, if legal analysts recommend improving the wording of the draft in the course of the procedure, so that it is more appropriate for someone and excludes interpretation in many ways, then we can do so. That is why procedural steps are foreseen in Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U124	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! I don't think it's random that this bill's number is 666. After all, we know what the number is, it's a diabolical number, or that bill carries that idea. First of all, I find the bill to be unconstitutional. I am referring to § 154 of the Constitution, which talks about the autonomy of the local government. As far as the scope of the draft is concerned, § 1 (3) of the bill states: "This section also applies to a company with a local authority and to a foundation or non-profit organisation established by a local authority. " This means that the bill concerns hospitals, museums, theatres, and transport companies. For example, transport companies must not advertise in the future 40 days before the elections. You can't let me know when the bus leaves one stop or another and what time it gets to the other stop. But what I ask is this: why does the draft not include state companies, state foundations, ministries, state-established NGOs, etc.?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U126	Thank you for your question. I think that the number of this bill is, perhaps, of some kind of greater significance, after all, it seeks to reduce certain demonic behaviour, especially in the largest local government in Estonia. I mean, this little fucking store in every pocket, pressing in every single hole left to justify what it's doing. We are trying to implement one measure, although it is far from the perfect measure to reduce this practice and attitude. As far as your question is concerned, that is precisely why I also mentioned in my speech the wording of the new paragraph in § 1 (1) of the bill. Paragraph 52 (2) of that new § provides that this restriction does not apply to the publication of notices the disclosure of which is required by law. And, as I pointed out in reply to the previous question, this future law must under no circumstances paralyse the normal activities of local authorities, which are understandable to everyone and what the taxpayer expects. This paralysis has far from been our goal, even though some malicious interpreter wants to twist it so. The question of national companies is, in my opinion, justified. I believe that this practice must also be the same for public undertakings and public undertakings. I believe that such a change could be made to the draft. The issue is that the problem that we are primarily trying to solve has been the subject of campaigns that have been funded directly from the local government budget. The legal entities set up by the local government are listed in the draft in order to avoid going around the corner if anyone wants to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U127	Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U128	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good waitress! There's a lot of controversy about this bill. How would we view such an innovative idea if we made it possible for us to publish all the lists of candidates on national newspapers and election day at the polling station and no more propaganda? Then those who have been faithful throughout their lives will be elected, well-known and respected in society. Maybe we could get the most honest result. How do you view it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U129	Thank you, Aivar, for this legitimate, in some form, provocative question, which probably came from the previous question. As legislator, the Riigikogu is the body that assesses proportionality in what extent and to what extent electoral agitation is permitted. As we know, political outdoor advertising during active electoral agitation, or 40 days before the elections, has been banned in Estonia for years. As a result, nothing has really happened. There are European countries where political outdoor advertising is regulated in a different way, where it is permitted, and there are countries where it is very precisely determined within what limits can be advertised during active electoral intervention. It is entirely up to us, the legislators, to determine to what extent information is reasonable. I think your extreme proposal has been made through the prism of humor. It is important that people have the opportunity to present their ideas, their ideology, their worldview. The question is, what is the line from which people go too far, sticking the election propaganda in every window and door? We remember that the motivation behind the ban on political outdoor advertising was, above all, that it began to ravage public space on a very large scale. The legislator decided to ban it, and the turnout is far from the result, but after that, amazingly, it remained the same or even increased. In my opinion, the agitation at the elections has become more effective; more direct channels have been used to communicate with people than posters somewhere on the wall of the house. It's all entirely up to the legislator to choose. Our choice with regard to this draft, and also with regard to draft 497, is above all that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has a duty to think about how we can establish this practice in the country as if everyone has the same rules. There must be no rules that allow a situation where some enjoy privileges and thus achieve an unambiguous competitive advantage. This is an obvious corrupt use of public funds.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U130	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U131	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, I'm asking about the same competitive advantage. As far as we know, we've got all the country elders' seats politicised. They also use public funds very much to highlight their party. Should the activities of the county elders be halted 40 days before the elections and their public appearances prohibited?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U132	If you consider that persons belong to a political party and have been appointed somewhere, it is totally your choice. If you call the country elders' seats politicised, then it is your choice of principle. In my opinion, the fact that one person or another belongs to a party is far from deplorable. It couldn't be. After all, we have been saying that people could be members of political parties, that they could express their view of the weather more clearly. For this, democracy has been built here in Estonia for over 20 years. But I think that is not the centre of today's debate, whether people are in a party or not, why they belong to one party, etc. If you refer to forced partying, which has been a serious problem in several parts of Estonia and in several municipalities over the last decade, that someone has been forced to enter the party, then this is a completely different issue. This is a criminal offence and in this case law enforcement authorities can already carry out their own procedures. At this point, I recall that the provision of forced partying was written into the Penal Code with the desire to prevent a phenomenon such as pressure on someone, threatening to lose a position or another privilege. About that if you don't take one step or another, if you don't join the party, unfortunately, you can't continue on the head of the municipal day care centre, the headmaster of the school or any other position. It was more carried by this purpose, not by a desire to be punished. Rather, we had in mind the need to change political culture, certain attitudes and also certain phenomena. The point of this draft is, I repeat, to try to offer everyone the same opportunities during the election of local governments, the election of the European Parliament and the election of the Riigikogu. We remember that although the Special Committee on Corruption, as well as the Committee on Financing of Political Parties, has dealt with and evaluated the violations prior to the election of the 2013 local government council, this practice continued before the elections to the European Parliament. A massive advertising campaign was carried out in one municipality, which was broadcast on all Estonian audiovisual channels 5. May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, May, This took place at the top of the electoral campaign in the interests of a single municipality, and the first number on one list also appeared. Unfortunately, we see that this practice continues. Whatever steps have been taken by the various bodies of Parliament or non-profit organisations that, as we know, have proposed an agreement between political parties before all the elections, that there are specific rules here, that there are principles here, that we do not violate them, that they are still being violated. In my opinion, the legislator should take resolute steps to put an end to this.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U133	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U134	Thank you. Dear waitress, The bill suggests that the local government unit is forbidden to do this and the second thing during active electoral agitation. We know that local authorities come and go. Perhaps this draft could specify that the ban is, for example, 40 days or two or three weeks before the election day. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U135	I think that 40 days is a perfectly proportionate time limit. I think it is important that there is a very specific restriction in the law. As I said, this is far from a first-time internship. In the case of political outdoor advertising, the same time limit is used, i.e. the time of active election agitation. For example, at the time of the election of the European Parliament, this ban was valid from 16 April to 25 May, i.e. in essence for 40 days. I think this is now the preferred deadline.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U136	There are no more questions. Thank you. The rapporteur for the Constitutional Commission is Rein Lang. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U137	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! My task is to give you an overview of what took place during the 666 debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The debate took place on 8 September and I will try to convey briefly the views there. On behalf of the initiators, Urmas Reinsalu introduced this draft, who spoke more or less the same story as Ken-Marti Vaher today. But he also said that the initiator is not stuck in the very solution that has been put on paper. We didn't hear that claim here today. Urmas Reinsalu's main concern was that the Riigikogu has a similar draft, which the people's mouth feels as a draft of Valdo Randpere and which bears the number 497, but this bill does not go far enough and, secondly, it has not been dealt with quickly enough. On this point, the chairman of the committee, Rait Maruste, asked whether he had understood correctly that it was not the most important draft for the initiators themselves, but that the idea contained therein should be passed on. In addition, the representative of the initiator replied that the initiator would certainly support the fact that the draft would go to the Riigikogu in full within a seven-week cycle. Anyone present realized this by not taking back the draft. The government representative Paloma Krõõt Tupay then received the floor, who stated that the Government of the Republic supports the aim of the draft act to prevent the hidden use of public funds by local governments, but since the purpose of this draft act coincides with the draft law amending the party law and the advertising law pending by the Riigikogu 497, the Government of the Republic considers it appropriate to deal with one draft rather than two drafts. Could complement the existing draft rather than make a new one. In summary, a representative of the Government announced that the Government of the Republic decided at its meeting not to support the separate proceedings in this form of draft 666. After that, Väino Linde asked whether the Government of the Republic discussed the content of the draft. The government representative replied that the content of the draft had not been discussed. The speaker asked whether it could be understood from the wording of the draft that the IRL Group wished to prohibit the advertising of its performances and the publication of the timetable on the bus team within three months on the Tallinn City Theatre, on which the initiator's representative said that this was definitely not the purpose of the draft. On which I then asked whether the initiator would admit that the draft was of poor quality, and it was answered that the draft was not of poor quality. Andres Herkel said that he felt that the draft initiated by Valdo Randpere was also of poor quality, but it has moved on. Mr Aaviksoo said that the debate so far has shown that it is not advisable to go to the substantive issues, and proposed that the debate be abandoned, that the debate be closed on this point. The speaker here fully supported this proposal by Mr Aaviksoo. So the coalition and the opposition found a common language on this issue. Indrek Saare's view was that the issue of misuse of administrative resources certainly deserves a substantive debate, but it is very difficult to have a substantive debate on the subject of a draft which does not have content. And since the draft is a declaration that wants to ban everything without proposing genuine solutions, the Social Democratic Party Group does not support its further process. That was the time to make specific procedural decisions. But before that, an interesting discussion broke out between Jaak Aaviksoo and Rait Maruste. Jaak Aaviksoo said that he felt that it would not be possible to positively delineate what is unacceptable and what is not. In lawmaking, particularly on complex issues, he felt that a legal framework should be established on the basis of which judges could move forward on a case-by-case basis. The chairman of the committee, Rait Maruste, supported this philosophical approach in every way, and I say for my part that I, too, very much support this approach. This led to procedural decisions. Three things were decided: firstly, to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 16 September (which unfortunately did not work out, today it is 17 September), secondly, to appoint Rein Lang (which was a consensual decision) as rapporteur, and thirdly, to propose that the draft be rejected at first reading. There were 8 members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in favour of this proposal, 2 against and 1 abstention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U138	Any questions for the rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs? No, it's not. I'm opening negotiations. Kalev Eagle, please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U139	Austet Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Democrats understand and share the concerns of the initiators about the hidden use of public funds for election advertising. Regrettably, however, in the draft under discussion, the methods for resolving this problem have gone beyond any limits. If the overreacted and over-stretched solution or action is used as an expression that she threw the child out with the washing water, then in addition to water and the child, the bowl has been thrown out. The contents of the report of the originator's representative were much less gentle than what was actually written in the draft. The active period of electoral agitation is 40 days before the elections. In the period from 1 September 2013 to 1 March 2015, we have three elections, so a year and a half in this draft we have 120 days of total information lockdown. Nanas can survive unless they're congratulated on the anniversary in the parish paper at the time. The parents of newly born parish citizens swallow when their joy is shared with the community only two months later. But if, during this period, there are unpublished overviews of what has been said and what has been decided in the parish council, we will violate the principle of transparent governance. In the opinion of the Socialists, there is no point in starting to improve this bill, but there is only a title left of it, but we already have drafts with such a title, and perhaps even more than one. The Social Democrats do not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U140	There are no more requests to speak, I will conclude the negotiations. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has proposed to reject draft 666 at first reading. We need to vote on this proposal. Honourable Riigikogu, please pay attention! The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has proposed to reject draft 666 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There are 65 members of the Riigikogu in favour of this proposal, 17 against, no abstentions. Draft 666 has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U141	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Eesti Pank Act initiated by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. Starter-side waitress Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U142	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, The Fatherland and Res Publica Association have initiated a draft law amending the Eesti Pank Act with the aim of improving the availability of cash as a still necessary means of payment, while harmonising its availability in Estonian towns and rural areas. To this end, it is proposed that Eesti Pank's tasks include ensuring the availability of cash and giving Eesti Pank the right to impose rules on credit institutions in this regard. Paragraph 1 (1) of the draft law provides for the rewording of paragraph 2 (5) of the Eesti Pank Act "The purpose and tasks of Eesti Pank" in such a way that, apart from organising the circulation of money, involving euro banknotes in the issuance of euro banknotes and issuing of euro coins, the task of Eesti Pank will be to ensure the availability of cash. The draft does not mean that Eesti Pank should itself directly ensure the availability of cash in the whole country, it would not make sense for the central bank's functions and the organisation of our banking market. In essence, the draft requests that Eesti Pank, as a competent institution, lay down rules for commercial banks that ensure adequate access to cash throughout the territory of Estonia. There is nothing fundamentally different from the current regulation in granting Eesti Pank the right to establish such rules. The state has granted credit institutions the exclusive right to receive money for deposit purposes, and the activities of these institutions are therefore more regulated than other activities by the Credit Institutions Act and other legislation, including the rules laid down by Eesti Pank.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U143	Honourable waitress, one moment! Good members of the Riigikogu, including the MPs Kokk, Gräzin and Akkermann, are currently not suitable for legislative work in the Chamber. Please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U144	Thank you. When drawing up the draft, we also considered, as an alternative, supplementing the Credit Institutions Act, which was the subject of a serious debate in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Later we learned that the Government of the Republic would support the amendment of the Credit Institutions Act rather than the amendment of the Eesti Pank Act. The initiators considered supplementing the Credit Institutions Act in such a way as to include rules on access to cash for banks, but giving Eesti Pank the right to impose rules seemed more appropriate to us. Firstly, because Eesti Pank, as a regulator, is able to introduce rules and adopt them more flexibly than when implementing the law. Eesti Pank can also better motivate credit institutions to adopt a single ATM network, which will probably reduce the need for further regulation in the future. Secondly, the Estonian banking market is quite concentrated and it would probably not be wise to lay down rules on access to cash without taking into account the size and market share of the banks. This could also lead to the volume and detail of regulation, which would probably not make the most sense at the level of the law. The need for regulation proposed in the draft has actually grown out of life itself. Card payments and other electronic means of payment are not yet possible in many places in Estonia to cope with fairs, markets, shops and catering establishments in smaller counties and cities. For example, a few days ago, I visited a café in Viljandi, downtown Viljandi, where the card could not be paid. In many places there are no ATMs that guarantee access to cash. The situation is unreasonable, because at the same time we can see that the walls of shops located in larger cities have two or three ATMs a few metres apart. Thus, ATMs from different banks duplicate each other in many parts of the world, while in many areas cash is not available in full. This situation can satisfy individual, possibly larger banks whose ATM network is larger and more developed nationwide, but it certainly does not satisfy the inhabitants of certain regions, which often have to use cash. The position of the Government of the Republic is not to support the draft, so let me present it briefly. In fact, the position drawn up by the Ministry of Finance is that Eesti Pank cannot impose such rules by regulation, they should be laid down in law. I mentioned this earlier that the introduction of such rules by law would prevent a flexible approach to credit institutions. Their size and their network are very different, and the legislator is certainly not the body to negotiate with credit institutions in order to create a single ATM network. This is an opportunity for Eesti Pank to do so and to motivate the creation of a single network of ATMs similar to that of the Finnish state. Ultimately, it would be cheaper for banks as well as for society as a whole. The Ministry of Finance also takes the view that the draft explanatory memorandum has not been drawn up in accordance with § 46 and 47 of the norm of the drafts to be dealt with in the Riigikogu. The explanatory memorandum does not explain whether the impact on the economy and regional development expected to be due to the implementation of the law is significant or not. Imagine, the Government of the Republic rejects the draft because it considers that if, for example, an ATM is installed in Lihula and Manor Village, its impact on the Estonian economy and regional policy is not understandable! This is not understandable and therefore the draft is not supported! The explanatory memorandum does not show, in the view of the Government, what are the activities of the State and the local government involved in the implementation of the Act. I can assure you that neither the state nor the local government would be a significant additional activity. We are talking about the responsibility of credit institutions to ensure that cash is available and that no additional tasks or financial obligations are imposed on the state or local government. And I believe that both the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic understand this very well. It is foreseen that there will be no calculation of whether a single ATM network will be economically viable. Such calculations are very difficult for the members of the Riigikogu and the political group, and the Ministry of Finance is hardly capable of such adjustments. Such an estimate could be made by the banks themselves, but without calculation it is understandable that this would be a sensible step in regional policy. It seems to me that it is a constitutional right that in the Republic of Estonia it is possible to carry out its operations in cash anywhere. It's a perfectly legal way, there's nothing illegal about it. To raise the question of whether such a network should be and whether it is economically viable or not is, in my opinion, nonsense. This position of the Government of the Republic is completely incomprehensible. As a representative of the initiator of the draft act, I very much hope that the members of the Riigikogu will also acknowledge the existence of a problem in the large hall. In the Committee on Monetary Affairs, both coalition and opposition members acknowledged that there was a problem in itself. It seemed, however, that changes could be made to the Credit Institutions Act rather than to the Eesti Pank Act. As an initiator, we are prepared to deal with the draft very flexibly. If changes are to be made, we are fully open to this. If it is found that a better alternative is to amend the law on credit institutions, we are, of course, ready to do so. All we have to do is ask why it hasn't been done in the past few years. I, being a member of the government, raised this issue before the Minister of Finance years ago. We had a pretty close correspondence between the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Finance. Anyone who wishes can get acquainted with it, it started in 2012. So the problem has been up for years, but unfortunately, no initiative has come from the Ministry of Finance so far. That's why we're in this big hall today with the draft law amending the Eesti Pank Act. I very much hope that the members of the Riigikogu will support this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U145	Questions for the waitress. Please, Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U146	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! According to the rules in force in the euro area, the Eesti Pank Act is amended in such a way that if additional obligations are imposed on Eesti Pank, it must be coordinated with the European Central Bank. So that I now know how to decide today whether to be in favour or against, I ask you to briefly tell us what the European Central Bank thinks of this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U147	It is very difficult for me to predict what the European Central Bank thinks. He will probably approve of this once we have decided here in our country that the ATM network could be national and Eesti Pank could have the competence to direct it. I do not see any obstacle as to why the European Central Bank should oppose this. In Finland, a single network works. Nor do I see that this legislative amendment goes against European Union law or other legislation. As far as the need for a position or coordination is concerned, I believe that this will not prevent us from completing the first reading now and then coordinating the matter with the central bank. Let me remind you that we have adopted laws in this Chamber, i.e. the draft has passed three readings without receiving the necessary State aid authorisation from the European Commission. We have assumed that the Ministry of Finance will receive State aid authorisation after the adoption of the Act. So I don't see that it's a problem or that we're creating some precedent here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U148	Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U149	Thank you. Good waitress! Many cash skeptics say that the consumption of cash is decreasing year by year. Please tell me how much cash consumption has actually increased since 2008. Do you have the data?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U150	I don't have the data with me right now, I owe an exact number, but the general trend is that the number of transactions has decreased, but the amount to be handled has increased. That's the trend. So if it is now confirmed that we have largely switched to electronic settlement and cash is a historical obsolescence, then it does not correspond to reality. Cash withdrawals from ATMs have increased, but the number of transactions has decreased.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U151	Cameron Maruse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U152	Thank you! Good waitress! In your report you argued, and it is also in the written text that only the law can impose sanctions. That statement is not quite accurate. Sanctions are very different in nature: there can be administrative sanctions, there can be disciplinary sanctions and there can be criminal sanctions. Do you think it is necessary to specify the types of sanctions that Eesti Pank could impose? To just say'sanctions' would be inaccurate.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U153	The problem also arose in the Committee on Monetary Affairs that the proposed draft does not provide for sanctions has not referred to sanctions that could be imposed if the draft law became a law and one or the other credit institution did not comply with Eesti Pank's rules. As I said, we are open to dealing with the draft, and if there are good proposals, and there is a conviction that the law should be amended and set out more precisely who should apply sanctions, then these proposals can be made during the procedure of the draft, and certainly the initiator would agree with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U154	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U155	Thank you. Honourable waitress! We have had such practice in Estonia that there has not been a need to intervene in the pricing of commercial banks. Estonia has also not required the mandatory provision of specific services. You want to change that practice. Yesterday, Priit Perens, head of Swedbank Estonia, gave an interview to the Estonian Päevaleht. He said that the state could do this if it wanted to, it could be required by law, but the state must understand what the result is and who will pay for it. You shouldn't hide it from society. Everything has a price, and in the end, the customer pays for it in some way. Do you agree that in the end, the customer will pay for this change? If you don't agree, tell me who's paying for it!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U156	It must be acknowledged that we really want to change the practice so far, that in many places the availability of cash has decreased. This is certainly not a positive practice and we would like to change it. So you're right about that. As far as the question of who pays for it is concerned, it is not quite that it is always the customer who pays for it when the state establishes something and the state forces it. It is not quite correct that the state has given credit institutions practically monopoly rights to go around with depositors' money. You can't use this option at random, it's very regulated. I would also say that the right to travel with customers' money is a great privilege. I do not agree that the state is now unilaterally imposing a requirement on the banks. The state has given them very great powers and opportunities to use depositors' money, while also making money on it. I dare say that by looking at the profits of the commercial banks operating in Estonia in hundreds of millions of euros last year, the costs of the ATM network seem to me to be so negligible that this money certainly does not have to be taken out of the client's pocket. It can be taken freely from profit.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U157	Jaanus Tamkivi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U158	Thank you, Chairman. Dear waitress, We like to compare ourselves with other countries and nations in every situation and on every issue. Do the initiators have information on this practice in other countries, both in Europe and in the wider world? Is there any other central bank that has been given such a task?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U159	I don't know how to give you an overview of the tasks of the European national central banks right now. This is very different in different countries. We have examined how access to cash is guaranteed in our immediate neighbours. The situation in Finland is much better than in Estonia. It has achieved that banks are in a common network; in Estonia it has not been able to create it. I'm sure you agree that it's not quite reasonable if we go to an ATM installed in the wall of a store in Tallinn or Tartu or other major cities and see three bank automatics at a distance of three meters. At the same time, there are small towns in Estonia where there are no ATMs. This is not reasonable either from the perspective of the residents or economically reasonable from the point of view of the banks. In Estonia, this system needs to be cleaned up regardless of the situation in Switzerland or Norway. I cannot answer your question exhaustively, but it is certainly possible to organise things better in Estonia itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U160	Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U161	Thank you. Good waitress! You just said that our northern neighbours have it all arranged differently. This can be understood by the fact that there are no ATMs for different banks in different regions of Finland. What do you call this common ATM network in Finland?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U162	This single network is in cross-border use, and it's called Otto. I believe that the members of the Riigikogu, who have read the bill and have taken an interest in it, also know that. This network could set an example for us.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U163	Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U164	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! Mart Laar, the current Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, is known to have a pretty good connection with the IRL. Has the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Honourable Bank examined the draft and, if so, does he have any position on it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U165	I am convinced that the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank will also monitor what is happening in the Estonian Parliament. Personally, I have not spoken to the Chairman of the Supervisory Board about this draft, but I know that the representatives of Eesti Pank are aware of the processing of this draft, and the President of Eesti Pank has been asked questions about the draft in this Chamber. If you study the verbatim report, you will see and I can confirm that Eesti Pank is aware of the processing of this draft. But since Eesti Pank is trying to maintain a neutral line and not to interfere in lawmaking and day politics, of course, it has not expressed its official opinion anywhere. At least I haven't read about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U166	Now the questions. Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U167	Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Finance of the Riigikogu discussed draft 684 in preparation for the first reading at its meeting on 8 September. Thomas Honourable Head of the Financial Markets Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance and Tea Danilov Head of the Internal Market Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications also participated in the meeting. The initiator introduced the draft. The Ministry of Finance explained its position, pointing first of all to the fact that this legal standard should be in the Credit Institutions Act rather than in the Eesti Pank Act. Secondly, it is not clear whether such obligations need to be imposed on banks by law. A representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications presented the work of a working group set up to find solutions to the issue of banking services. The Commission will address the issue of access to essential banking services more widely, also paying attention to the availability of cash. Mr Danilov also added that the working group set up at the Ministry of Economic Affairs was not only about access to cash, but was trying to map out the whole "minimum set of services." There are other services that need to be made more accessible, including opening a current account, concluding a debit card contract, concluding online banking contracts, making payments related to a telephone bank. There are a lot of problems besides cash. Tea Danilov said that regional areas of activity have been identified. There are about 60 such centres, most of them urban and rural municipalities. This working group has examined whether these points are covered by the services. It turned out that all centres were covered by SEB's postal services, with the exception of Viru-Jaagupi, since there is no post office. Operations can be carried out through ca 250 post offices all over Estonia. The cities and rural municipalities are also covered by Swedbank, which has a bank bus. This was explained by a representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. The problem is that in the case of SEB Postal Bank, if cross-use works, customers of other banks will be charged a fee of EUR 1 and 2,5% of the amount. This is the biggest problem that should be solved. One possible way out would be for Swedbank to also offer postal banking services. Estonian Post is said to be interested in this cooperation with Swedbank. After that, we had a longer debate in the Commission. There were opinions that there was a problem, and it was discussed how Eesti Pank could better motivate the use of a single ATM network. The originator explained that there are different ways to motivate: restrictions, through a pricing policy for certain services, can also establish rules on access to cash. This might motivate banks to set up a single ATM network. It was also asked that there is a statement in the explanatory memorandum that this is useful for the banks themselves, whether the banks can't count money. This claim was not understood. There was also a question of whether it was not a desire to re-distribute the market between banks. There was an interest in whether the content of the bill had also been negotiated with Eesti Pank, as it concerns the field of activity of Eesti Pank. The initiator explained that they had not been negotiated with them specifically before this draft was submitted, but the ideas had been discussed repeatedly with the people of Eesti Pank. Members of the Commission also asked whether this draft had an impact on the state budget. The answer was, it doesn't seem to be. If there is an impact, it is rather positive, and it is precisely the regional policy aspect. The Ministry of Finance also admitted that no impact analysis has been carried out, no budgetary or other impact assessment has been carried out. The Ministry of Finance was of the opinion that this bill would probably not cost the state budget. The costs relate to the banks themselves and should be assessed separately. The representative of the Ministry of Finance also stated that the aim is, of course, not that cash should not be settled at all, but studies show that the use of cash is costly, that electronic payment methods have become cheaper and that the Internet bank does not expect the physical presence of the service provider. There was a question about the possibilities for Eesti Pank to sanction credit institutions if the requirements that Eesti Pank would lay down were not met. That question sounded in this Chamber when the initiator of the bill appeared. The answer was that Eesti Pank has the possibility to establish the associated procedures. A representative of the Ministry of Finance said that putting such a public obligation on banks is legally questionable if this is done by a regulation of Eesti Pank. Such things must be enshrined in the law. And the sanctioning institution is the Financial Supervision Authority whose rights are enshrined in the Financial Supervision Authority Act and the Credit Institutions Act. Eesti Pank is currently able to impose sanctions so it gave such an example if banks do not submit statistics to Eesti Pank. There was also a question of why Eesti Pank is more competent to resolve such a regional policy issue than the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, who, moreover, is currently dealing with this problem. On this point, the initiator replied that one does not rule out the other, and when different ministries are involved, it is very good. Members of the Commission wondered whether this issue had been discussed before in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, but it did not come back to the members of the committee. Generally speaking, the fact that the issue is being dealt with is, of course, worthy of recognition. And the active activities of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications in this area are also worthy of recognition. In summary, however, the law on credit institutions is still the right place for this regulation to be. The outcome of the discussion by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications should also be awaited. The initiator of the draft act said that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications had not involved them in this debate. On this point, the representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications replied that all proposals would be heard and everyone who wanted to be involved. However, if the IRL finds that they are not involved, it is not right. A representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs said that Madis Kübar, an IRL member, was involved in this working group as a representative of the Cities Association. The committee chairman concluded that if regulation is needed, it should rather be in the Credit Institutions Act. He also reiterated that it is not just about cash that we should look at banking services and their availability more widely. Not only the availability of cash, but also the availability of other services could be the subject of discussion and whether Eesti Pank is the institution that has to solve this problem at all. The Working Group of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is working on this and will come up with a proposal to amend legislation if necessary. The Commission decided three things: firstly, to appoint a rapporteur here (this was a consensual decision), secondly, to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda on 16 September (it did not succeed, but it did not happen today) and thirdly, to propose that the draft be rejected. There were 6 members of the Commission in favour, 3 against, with 0 abstentions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U168	No further questions. Thank you! Now I would like to ask for Aivar Sõerdi, rapporteur for the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U169	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Commission waitress! You mentioned a lot of good reasons why this bill cannot be passed as a law. But did anyone in your committee come up with a discussion that the availability of cash in certain areas would deteriorate year after year? And did anyone in the Commission puke on these claims that transfer fees have been getting smaller and smaller? Compared to the time of the kroon, at that time the fee was three kroons, now 0.32 to 0.36 euros. This 0.36 really is a smaller number, but essentially it's still a significantly higher sum.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U170	As I said, the Commission found that there are many things to be dealt with in our country. The availability of cash is also important, as is the availability of electricity as well as the availability of high-quality water. However, the Commission discussed the matter a little more broadly, we had such a view that other services should also be analysed. It is not just a question of access to cash, there are many other operations that people need. And the closer these services are to the customer, the better the opening of a current account or the conclusion of a debit card contract. As far as turfing is concerned, I am of the opinion, and I do not think the Committee on Monetary Affairs is against this either, that competition in the banking market is working in Estonia. Can't say it's not there. It is possible for a person to become a customer of a bank with more favourable conditions, including transmission fees. Banks have different packages that they offer to customers and which they develop all the time. There is absolutely real competition between banks.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U171	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U172	Thank you. Honourable waitress! If there are no ATMs in the city of Mõisaküla, I will listen with interest to your proposal on the decision to be taken by the client when choosing between banks. In your statement, the choice is very broad. But my question, however, is of a different nature. We know that in the government, the Ministry of Finance, not the Ministry of Economic Affairs, is involved in the financing of roads, but the Ministry of the Economy, not the Ministry of Finance. A working group has been set up with the Ministry of Economic Affairs. We in the Committee on Monetary Affairs learned that there was no deadline for the work of this working group, at least then there was no deadline. Do you know when this task force will cease to exist? The Committee on Monetary Affairs maintained the idea that, if the group's proposals are known, this issue could be further addressed. Secondly, did I understand correctly in the Committee on Monetary Affairs that the idea of a postal bank means that cash can only be received during working days and working hours? All nights, weekends and public holidays would be left out. That wouldn't be the solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U173	There were more than two questions. I'm gonna start answering again. We can discuss whether cash should be available 24/7 like electricity. Maybe it has to. As for the activities of the Working Group of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, I don't know when it's due. I can build on one news that the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications has said that concrete proposals will be proposed by the end of September. The news was when that group was formed. That's all I know right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U174	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U175	Thank you, manager. Rapporteur for the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Isn't it like it's late because the bank's doing the opposite? The head of Swedbank, Perens, advises people to move to where there are jobs. In essence, he recommends that all people move to Tallinn. Do you share this view?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U176	This recommendation has been ripped out of context. In general, this interview was very good in yesterday's Estonian Day Paper, I suggest you read it. But as for the question of whether this issue should have been discussed long ago, see, the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs was Sven Sester, a member of the IRL. For three years he headed the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Let anyone claim otherwise, but I do not remember that the Committee on Monetary Affairs has once discussed this big and important issue during the three years that Sven Sester led the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U177	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U178	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, You said it was a big and important question. I did not get the impression from the debate in the Committee on Monetary Affairs that this is, in your opinion, a big and important issue. Have you changed your mind in the meantime?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U179	I'm not in the habit of changing my point of view. I think all the things that the Committee on Monetary Affairs is discussing are important. Tell me something that is of little importance and on which the Committee on Monetary Affairs is still wasting time! To a greater or lesser extent, but all the questions are important. After all, they concern our economy, including finance and the circulation of money. What makes you think that this issue does not matter to me? In your report, you indicated that you have been dealing with this issue since 2012 and even earlier. But the Committee on Monetary Affairs, at least at the time Sven Sester was running it, didn't think it necessary to discuss it for some reason.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U180	No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Inara Luis, please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U181	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to congratulate the members of the IRL for raising such a serious issue. Cash circulation and access to cash are indeed a major and vital problem in rural areas. Just as in urban areas, this service must be guaranteed on land. We fully agree with that. Unfortunately, in recent years, our regional policy has gone down the road that small schools and post offices have been shut down and the organisation of public transport has become very inadequate. And another problem has sneaked up on land, and that is the poor availability of cash and the lack of other banking services. So I am pleased that the IRL has raised this issue seriously. Finally, it has been awakened and discovered that the country is in a bad situation. The Social Democrats have also dealt with this issue very seriously. As early as June, we made an appeal to the Governor of Eesti Pank and we wanted to find out how the availability of cash in Estonia was ensured. It is very pleased to note that the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Urve Palo, has very strongly started talks to solve the problems and ensure adequate access to cash on land. As Mr Sõerd has already said, a working group has been set up at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. It cooperates with a number of organisations and also seeks to conclude agreements with banks to solve the problems that have arisen. As the previous speakers said, the problem in rural areas is not only the availability of cash, but the quality of all banking services has become very poor. This problem has not arisen overnight, but years ago. If you ask people what they want in addition to accessing cash, which services should be provided by the nearest bank office, you will be told that you want to open a bank account, conclude debit card agreements, make bank transfers. We know that many older people can't make transfers in ATMs because they just don't know how. It also wants to conclude e-invoice contracts and pay in cash. In the country, cash is also being paid into the bank in coins and this should be possible. Of course, a person wishes to receive all information about his or her bank account. No machine gives him such an overview as direct communication with a branch employee. After all, we also need to agree on how close the bank's minimum services office must be to people. Swedbank, who has shut down a lot of branches, says the bank points remain. But believe me, the bank offices that have remained in rural areas are far from guaranteeing the necessary quality. Can I have more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U182	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U183	Luckily, or unfortunately, I've been in contact with a bank office like this. Believe me, it was a very unpleasant emotion. I wanted to make a bit more cash transfer, but I didn't have a limit to do it online. In general, I make all the transfers online. There was an employee left at the bank station who could not answer my questions and called the office several times, where there were phone failures. My time ran, there was a line, people were upset. We got things over with, but in the end, there was still one problem left unsolved. Any bank that converts its offices into bank offices or changes its services should certainly take a more respectful view of its customers and give them all the information they can. Perhaps this is the most important message that we need to ensure regional policy that the quality of banking services does not deteriorate. It is not conceivable that, for example, Lasnamäe only has bank offices open and people must travel to Mustamäe branch to get information about their account. In rural areas, the internet is far from available at home, and many older people do not know how to do business online, even by increasing the limit. For example, some people who are very quick to do all kinds of banking transactions cannot increase the limit themselves. This is particularly difficult for the elderly because they are not very good at using computers. There was also the idea in this hall that the cross-use of ATMs should definitely be introduced. Yeah, that's one way. Finland Otto is very effective, but Finland's statistics show that there were 2,500 ATMs before, then there are now 1700. Finally, it is very good that such a working group has been set up with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. It aims to find a comprehensive solution to the minimum package that will satisfy the people of rural areas. Cross-use options and the related legal framework will also be explored. As one colleague said here, all these proposals are intended to be ready by the end of September, at the latest by the beginning of October. There is still so much cash availability that, of course, the entire service will change in time and maybe the ATM is not needed in every rural municipality centre. Looking at the example of Finland and Germany, for example, one of the most recent alternatives is that a person makes a purchase from a shop for 20 euros, pays with a card and has the right to receive cash from that shop for 200 euros, which goes off his account. Regulation must be highly flexible. We wish the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications a lot of strength! Let's hope they finish their work in time. The Social Democrats do not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U184	Mikhail Stalnukhin, representative of the Centre Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U185	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I thought I would make a very short speech, and initially I had a text of about ten words. But it would be a little embarrassing to talk so briefly after the Commission's co-rapporteur for a quarter of an hour completely recounted everything to us. Besides, I remembered a story I'd like to share with you. We're talking about Otto von Bismarck, ever since he was quite young, and Prussian Landtag, or Parliament. They had hot arguments all the time and sometimes even got so awesome that one man invited another to a duel. What happened to Bismarck was that he wanted to challenge one of his political opponents to a duel. It's duel day. Bismarck's here. The way it was, whoever's called out picks a gun. And what did Bismarck see at the duel spot? He saw two sausages. His opponent handed him two sausages and said that one is pure, normal sausage, eat as much as you want, but the other has coopers inside. The opposite was a doctor who said to Bismarck: "One of us eats one sausage and the other eats another, one survives, and the other surely dies. " Bismarck reacted immediately, asked for forgiveness, withdrew his words, and left the scene of the duel because he understood one thing. A politician may be anyone, he may be the last bastard or an angel, but he can't afford one: he can't be ridiculous. And if you've done it because you've eaten cholera sausage or if you've eaten it with your opponent, that's what you're gonna do in history. Whatever else you've done, it's all in history. Can't be ridiculous. I think that right now, although it seems to me that only I see this humour, it is a serious and funny bill. The problem is that in small places in Estonia it is necessary to restore the possibility of obtaining cash. We're talking about an ATM network right now. Please tell me if the schools are all right in these very places! How many schools have been shut down in these places in the last seven years when the initiators of the bill were successfully in government? In these very places, every place, there's a cop, sorry, there's a cop? Is it possible to get his help at any time? How many places did the Rescue Board's employees disappear from in the last seven years? How many places are there where the last stores are closed? Once a week or twice. Kind of like it's changing the perspective. As a wise man has said, the length of a minute depends on which side of the toilet you stand. It's exactly the same here. And expect that soon the IRL Group will come up with draft laws that bring back rescue officers, police officers, shops, schools, medical care, we're not going to support this circus, that's funny. We understand the problem. It is a disgrace that, for example, in Manor Village, it is not possible to withdraw cash from the ATM. That is why we will not vote against this draft, but we will not support this circus either. The Estonian Centre Party Group will not support the draft in such a way that it will not take a position at the moment when voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U186	Aivar Sõerd, representative of the Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U187	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft 684 aims to add an additional obligation to the tasks of Eesti Pank: ensuring the availability of cash. The obligation to ensure the availability of cash in the wording of the draft can be interpreted as an obligation of a central bank rather than a credit institution. The explanatory memorandum says that it has not been meant that Eesti Pank itself ensures the availability of national cash. However, if credit institutions are to be guaranteed access to cash, this obligation must be laid down in the law of credit institutions. However, the draft does not state what sanctions are to be imposed if credit institutions do not ensure the availability of cash. The regulation of Eesti Pank cannot impose sanctions; they must be in law. Moreover, this draft is among those whose adoption as a law must be coordinated in advance with the European Central Bank. The originator said that there is no public document or letter in which Eesti Pank would express its views on this draft. I looked into it on my own and found their position. This is the reply of the Governor of Eesti Pank to the local government leaders of Läänemaa, which is publicly available. It says that Eesti Pank's role in the organisation of cash circulation is to provide sufficient cash supply to Estonian residents and companies. 'To achieve this, we must be able to meet the cash orders of commercial banks and also cooperate with the cash transport companies. Commercial banks are in turn responsible for covering the cash demand of their customers. " In the reply of the Governor of Eesti Pank, it is also stated that the state of Estonia did not consider it necessary to intervene in the pricing of commercial banking services, nor did it require them to provide specific services. Eesti Pank does not have this competence either. In this letter, the Governor of Eesti Pank also states the Bank's position on a single network of ATMs. The initiator of the draft act writes in the explanatory memorandum that Eesti Pank should better motivate credit institutions to adopt a single ATM network. Eesti Pank's view is that if the aim is to improve the availability of cash services in sparsely populated areas, a single ATM network serving all banks is not the best solution to achieve this. Eesti Pank does not support this solution. They say that, in the case of a single ATM network, commercial banks lose the opportunity to distinguish from other banks with a high-quality service. In addition, each bank's liability for a single network is also dissipated, thus reducing the possibility for customers and the general public to influence the decisions of the banks. I understand that Eesti Pank does not essentially support this draft. In any case, if such a bill were to be put into effect, the first thing would have been to discuss the proposal with Eesti Pank. In summary, this draft certainly does not help to achieve the objective that the initiators have set out. That is why the Reform Party Group cannot support this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U188	There is no more wish to make an appearance. I will conclude the negotiations. The 684 draft has been assessed by the Commission in such a way that it is considered appropriate to reject it at first reading. It needs to be voted on. I shall put to the vote the draft proposal by the commission of reference to reject it at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. Quiet, please! There are 48 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the Commission's proposal, 18 against, no abstentions. Draft 684 has been rejected at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U189	The third reading of the Act on the Organisation of Health Services and the Amendment of the Traffic Act 667 initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The Commission has proposed to put the draft to a final vote of 667. I am voting on draft law 667 amending the Law on the organisation of health services initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Law on the amendment of the Law on Traffic. Please take a stand and vote. There were 66 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, no respondents or abstentions. The Act amending the Health Services Organisation Act and the Traffic Act has been adopted. Dear members of the Riigikogu, please maintain silence during the vote!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U190	The next item is the third reading of draft law amending the Health Insurance Act and the Health and Safety at Work Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The Commission has proposed to put the draft to a final vote on 679. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Health Insurance Act and the Health and Safety at Work Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 679. Please take a stand and vote. There were 63 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the Act, no respondents or abstentions. The Act amending the Health Insurance Act and the Health and Safety at Work Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U191	The next item is the second reading of the draft of the Riigikogu decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the execution of the Estonian State's international obligations in the post-conflict peace-building mission in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria'. The rapporteur for the National Defence Committee is Tõnu Juul. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U192	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft under discussion was presented by the Government of the Republic. a on 9 June 2005. The first reading of the draft was completed on 18 June. The deadline for tabling amendments was 4 July at 4 p.m. No amendments were tabled at that time. The second reading is therefore identical to the first reading text. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to second reading at its meeting on 8 September and approved it by consensus. The proceedings of the draft are also related to the 9 September departure session of the National Defence Commission to the Defence Forces' headquarters, where the Commission received an overview from Defence Forces representatives of the situation of the international missions of the Estonian Defence Forces, including the UNTSO mission. As regards the content of the draft, I note that it amends the Riigikogu decision of 11 December 2013 by increasing the number of Estonian Defence Forces members participating in the mission from three to six, while the term of use of the Defence Forces mission remains the same and the mission participates in the mission. a until 31 December. The adoption of the draft decision will allow the Estonian Defence Forces to fill the position of Chief of the UNTSO observatory from October of this year. The military observation mission under discussion is based on UN Security Council Resolution No 50 of 1948 and Estonian Defence Forces have been participating in this mission since 1997. This is the longest history of the United Nations mission. This is a purely UN so-called 'blue helmet observation mission'. On 8 September 2014, on the basis of § 109 of the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act, the National Defence Committee decided, by consensus, to propose to the Riigikogu to stop the second reading of the draft decision, to put the draft to a final vote and to adopt it as a decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U193	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote of 690. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the Riigikogu's decision 'Extension of the deadline for the use of the Defence Forces in the execution of the Estonian state's international obligations in the post-conflict peace-building mission in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria', as presented by the Government of the Republic', draft 690. Please take a stand and vote. There were 56 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft as a decision, and there were no respondents or abstentions. Draft 690 has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U194	The next item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Food Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please, Commission waitress Kalvi Tough!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U195	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, The Rural Commission discussed draft law amending the Food Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 642 before being sent to second reading in two sessions: Monday, 8 September and Monday, 15 September. It must be said that the deadline for submitting amendments, which was 28 May, was the members of the Riigikogu, the political groups and other committees, did not propose amendments. However, the Committee on Rural Affairs, in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture, prepared and tabled eight amendments. Let it be said that two of them are substantive and six are of a technical and descriptive nature. I would like to introduce these two proposals, which are neither technical nor specific to the draft. Amendment 1 replaces the word 'Minister of Agriculture' with 'Minister responsible for the field' in the draft. This amendment concerns an amendment to the Law of the Government of the Republic. Since the draft we are discussing today had been tabled before the Government of the Republic Act was amended, such an amendment had to be made. Amendment 8 introduces a new section entitled "The validity of specific requirements for the labelling of foodstuffs and other forms of communication' in the draft law. Since this draft law is due to two directly applicable regulations of the European Union, one of which will only be in force in 2016 and will apply to specific foods, as long as this regulation, which is directly applicable in the European Union, has not entered into force, it is necessary to establish a procedure in law for labelling and other forms of communication of food intended for particular nutritional uses. The Commission also took procedural decisions. It was decided to appoint Mr Kalvi Tõvi, Chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs as rapporteur for the draft proposal (Ester Tuiksoo, Member of the Committee on Rural Affairs, presented this draft at first reading). It was decided to propose the inclusion of draft 642 on the plenary agenda on 17 September, to propose the termination of the second reading, and when the second reading of the draft is closed, we have a proposal to refer this draft to the third reading. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U196	Any questions for the waitress? Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U197	Thank you. Honourable waitress! My question is on the first amendment, which states that the word 'Minister of Agriculture' will be replaced by 'Minister in charge of the field'. Would you be so kind as to explain the meaning of this amendment a little bit more widely and further? Is it now going to be the case in our legislative practice that the ministers of the sector, the Minister for Agriculture, the Minister for Foreign Affairs or the Minister for the Interior, are going to disappear and we are going to call everyone the minister responsible for the field with affection? How does this affect the general legal clarity and understanding of the law and whether, in addition to the law, a citizen must also read the minor acts of a portion in order to even know who the minister responsible for the field is? Wouldn't you dissect this topic more widely?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U198	Thank you. At the meeting of the Commission, we did not wide-spread this topic, although we admitted that the Committee on Rural Affairs is probably the first committee to make this change, as a result of the Government of the Republic's law. In order to make the governance regime more flexible, the title of the Minister has now been replaced by the words 'Minister in charge of the sector'. That's the law of the Government of the Republic, that's the way it is. The content of this amendment does not change much, although it makes the text more precise and brings it into line with the law of the Government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U199	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U200	Thank you. I understand that this was not discussed by the Commission. Your committee, of course, did not have the power to change the government's law in its own time. But I'll ask you differently. Don't you think this practice is just stupid and very bad?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U201	Thank you. The only way I can respond is that our committee followed the law adopted in its work, or the law of the Government of the Republic. We didn't think it was wise to dissect whether it was stupid or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U202	No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. The calls have been made, you don't want to negotiate. Eight amendments have been tabled for the second reading, all of which have been taken into account by the Committee on Rural Affairs. Let us review this table: the first, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth amendments. The amendments have been examined and the second reading of the draft has been completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U203	The next item is the second reading of the draft law amending the University Act and the Veterinary Organisation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur for the Rural Commission is Kalev Lillo. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U204	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the University Act and the Veterinary Organisation Act was at first reading on 21 May. The deadline for submitting amendments was 4 June and no amendments were tabled by Riigikogu members, political groups or other committees. The Commission discussed the draft on 9 September. We have examined three amendments prepared in cooperation between the Ministry of Agriculture and the Committee on Rural Affairs. The first two are linguistic: the word 'financing' was replaced by 'additional financing required to cover operational costs'. The third amendment is a technical proposal. It turned out that the section included in the text of the Veterinary Organisation Act had no title, which was now included. It was also decided to put draft 627 on the agenda by 17 September. We also have a proposal to conclude the second reading of the draft and, when the second reading is completed, to send the draft to the third reading. All these decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U205	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. Three amendments have been tabled for the second reading of draft 627, all of which are from the Committee on Rural Affairs and fully taken into account. Let us review this table: the first, second and third amendments. The second reading of Bill 627 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U206	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Family Law initiated by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union. Liisa-Ly Pakosta, member of the Riigikogu, will make a presentation on behalf of the initiators of the bill. The manager takes a break for three... The manager will refrain from taking a break. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U207	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! First of all, I want to argue with you about women's doctors. They also very much support the draft that we have tabled on the registration of a partnership. They're very much in favour of it. So please don't make it look like they're very unanimous in their support for your bill. They simply consider that the rights of children born out of free living should be protected, and the form of registered partnership is very suitable for them. But I have several questions for you. First of all, you expect a partnership agreement to exist. Can you tell me how many partnership agreements have been concluded in Estonia in recent times? I found a notary who had seen a partnership agreement. It was a little clue. Secondly, you want it to be a pre-requisite for a life together...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U208	One question at a time!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U209	This has been investigated by the Ministry of Justice and found it to be the least popular in the eyes of Estonians. So, basically, your party's popularity could be completely undermined by this if it were to be widely promoted. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U210	Good questioner, your time!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U211	Thank you. Let's get this letter from the ladies' team. The board of the Society has unanimously said that yes, they support the cohabitation law, which gives extra rights to couples living in a free partnership. They illustrate this with a high proportion of extramarital births in 2013 of 53% of all births. So it is true that the board of the Women's Doctors' Association has unanimously supported the granting of extra rights to children born in unregistered or free cohabitation. I would take this letter with all my attention. I sent a request to the board of women's doctors as soon as this letter came, wishing to clarify exactly what they meant. They may indeed have information that none of us have in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. It seems that none of the current members of the Riigikogu have previously practiced as a feminine doctor. If I'm wrong, I'm sorry. They haven't answered that letter yet. As regards the partnership agreement and the notaries' position, the opinion and oral additions sent in writing by the Chamber of Notaries should be taken seriously in itself, which I have thought about quite a bit and which they presented during the public debate at the very end of August. I would like to stress once again that for many years I have been dealing with children's rights and I hope that in the coming days we will also send concrete proposals to the members of the Riigikogu on a family law that could improve the situation of children. I have already submitted some of them to the Committee on Legal Affairs some times before. But imagine the situation from the notary point of view. Two young people are coming to the notary. Again, this is absolutely not related to the gender issue. Notar tells these two people that they can register a partnership or get married. In one case, they will have to support their mate even after it has been disabled or seriously ill, in the other case the State will assume that responsibility. Now imagine how one partner feels when another looks at him in a long way and says that maybe we should still choose the option that the state must assume this responsibility. In fact, the main concern that notaries have shared is that it is not a joke when people are put before such a choice. The social contract is certainly not the nicest way to regulate our family relations, I agree with you on that. They have been concluded, the House of Notaries mentioned this figure in the debate at the end of August, but I do not remember it any more. There must have been more than one. Although these types of property contracts are as old as the legal space itself, when we look again at the Swedish law on cohabitation, it also gives couples living together freely general legal regulations, but it allows them, of course, to conclude the most varied contracts and agreements, such as the summer house or shares, either after the break-up or after the death of their partner. It seems to me more and more that the Swedish approach, where the state guarantees protection for the weakest party without requiring registration, but of course allows people to enter into contracts regulating all kinds of other property relationships on the basis of free will, while ensuring that a child and a parent or carer who raises a child are guaranteed a better situation than a person who does not raise a child, is a reasonable way in which Estonia should also move. Was the answer more or less exhaustive?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U212	Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U213	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I have problems understanding § 793 (2) of the draft. Would you unthink it or translate it into Estonian?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U214	This principle also exists in the current family law. It seems to me that maintenance obligations should be considered in the Riigikogu at all. If I may, I would like to appeal to the Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Neeme Suur, to propose that a separate seminar be held on maintenance obligations. If we look at the sharpest angles that currently tend to be highlighted in family law discussions, they relate specifically to maintenance obligations. I believe that I am not the only member of the Riigikogu who has heard from people, especially older people, that they think this principle is unfair, that children have to pay the bills of their parents' nursing home if the parent is really sick enough to be able to cope with themselves at home, but that is what a neighbor's wife who does not have children pays all these costs to the local government. When we talk about the maintenance of minors or children up to 21 years of age or the maintenance of a non-working partner, a spouse, these are very high obligations that people have. In this evening's paper, too, allow me to refer to this journalism publication, too, there is a long article on how problematic it is, in terms of maintenance obligations, to actually have a family relationship network in terms of maintenance money. Family law says three things. For one thing, a man must support a woman two months before giving birth and two months after giving birth, regardless of whether she needs it or not. If I remember correctly, I think it was in § 111. Second, a husband must support a woman until the child is three years old if she is unable to earn her own living. Thirdly, if one of the spouses shows a health problem and the couple breaks up after that, I already talked about this notary concern, for example, the man gets seriously ill and the woman cannot care for him, maybe there are other reasons, maybe there aren't, but the couple will split up, then regardless of the fact that they have broken up, the woman has to support him, he has a maintenance obligation. This obligation does not pass on to the State, but also, in the case of divorced spouses, the spouse with whom the partner in need lived before. That's a very old principle. Once again, if we go back in the history of justice, this principle of mutual maintenance applies throughout the history of family law. Here it is given in generalized form. However, we are thinking about families with a child with very severe disabilities who need care 24 hours a day. Very often, these families fall apart, or one parent stays in the care of the child, is busy 24 hours a day, while the other parent leaves the family. According to the current family law, the parent who has left the family is obliged to support the other parent only until the child is three years old. In fact, we understand that since we have more and more children with very serious disabilities who need care around the clock, this maintenance obligation needs to be extended at least until the child is of an adult age. The principle would simply be that if you have a family, you will support your family members in good times and in bad times.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U215	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U216	Thank you, Mr President. I had a procedural question in the meantime, because in your presentation, a good waitress, you mentioned tens of times the draft law on partnership, not the bill in front of us. What bill are we dealing with here? But your answer to Valdo was the strongest defense in support of the law of cohabitation. Thanks for that. There was only one thing that remained unclear. All the principles you put forward about the Swedish model are very noble. Why, then, is it necessary for a partner to become a factual spouse by means of a partnership agreement? A two-person permanent partnership contract cannot be a singing association agreement; everyone understands that this is the partnership agreement that they enter into. Why put it on probation? We could really have a Swedish model, as you said in your presentation. However, the draft currently speaks a different language. It could be that when people are factually together, that is the responsibility.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U217	Thank you. I have repeatedly stressed that this bill can certainly be improved. All family law drafts should be discussed by a number of people in order to achieve the best possible result. I am absolutely sure that neither one person, group nor group will be able to create such a family-law regulation that will remain unchanged during the procedure. All these issues need very broad consideration. Mr Eagle asked a question about a section of the draft, and the Government of the Republic has also pointed out that this point should be better formulated. This can certainly be done between the first and second readings. When we talk about the Swedish Cohabitation Act, maybe this part of my report was a little incomprehensible. I'll go over that again just in case. In Sweden, registered partnerships were in force until 2009, after which the Swedish state ceased registration of registered partnerships. In the Kingdom of Sweden, Sambolagen, or the Law on Cohabitation, provides legal protection for couples who have not registered anything in any register, i.e. this law does not require any registration at a notary's office, either in the tax office or anywhere. Only three conditions need to be guaranteed, and the Swedish State will be perfectly able to monitor them. They are, first of all, a permanent partnership, second of all, a relationship where, in normal cases, a sexual relationship is assumed, that is, it does not go down when a grandmother and granddaughter or sister and brother live together or just two girlfriends, thirdly, a common household. The common household in the Republic of Estonia can be easily checked according to the population register and even without it. I made an example of my personal life that the withdrawal of child care benefits was not based on any records, but simply on the fact that there is someone else in my household who deals with children without being their biological parent. This was enough for the Republic of Estonia to take away one family allowance. It's been quite a few days since the bill was presented. As far as this partnership agreement is concerned, it has been proposed by the group in this wording. However, I underline that this draft can certainly be improved between the first reading and the second reading. I totally believe it can be improved.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U218	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U219	Thank you. I could say that the IRL supports multi-manship or multi-wifeism. The first paragraph of the draft law states that it is assumed that the actual spouses have entered into a partnership agreement for the duration of a permanent partnership. Imagine now that a man is officially married, then goes to another woman and suddenly her legal husband discovers that a man has a partnership agreement with another woman. It is written here that a partnership agreement is expected to be concluded. Maybe the same woman is going to live with another man who's not married, and one day it turns out he's signed a contract with someone else. So double marriage. How do you defend this idea? It should certainly read: 'It is assumed that the factual spouses who are not officially married... ' Otherwise, the really funny law will come out.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U220	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! I wonder if your partymates have really read this bill. Your group has repeatedly said that you are opposed to the Cohabitation Act mainly because it extends to the same sexes. However, when I read your draft and the analysis of the case law of the Association Agreement of the Supreme Court, which has been published, plus the Law of Obligations Act, I must say that the partnership agreement is fundamentally gender-neutral. It may be concluded by two or more persons wishing to act jointly, regardless of their political affiliation, singing skills, sex or any other preference. Since you do not define factual spouses in the draft and assume that the partnership is based on a partnership agreement, you are actually opening up this possibility to everyone. Why such a liberal approach, if you are so conservative in other drafts? This, of course, is very welcome. Personally, you've been supporting the law of cohabitation in your answers from the beginning. Why don't you explain it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U221	Thank you. I cannot make recommendations to the Supreme Court, although I am a member of the Riigikogu and maybe I could do so. But when we look at the relationship between oral and written agreements, generally, the slightly more mature democracies value oral agreements in the same way as written agreements. Do you remember the time when we had the possibility that the contract of employment might have been signed orally? Then there was a huge debate in the Riigikogu about how this can be done. But then it turned out that in most countries, in most so-called old democracies, it works perfectly well, and it also works quite well in Estonia today. There are a number of other very important and fundamental agreements that can be concluded orally. I am undoubtedly no expert on succession. Certainly, notaries can provide very colorful examples of different interpretations of wills. However, in all other areas of life, when a person is still alive, oral contracts still function in Estonian society in general. In addition to the employment contract, for example, I think that an oral loan contract can also be fully valid. The oral consent of the parent to authorise the minor to take up his or her employment shall be deemed to be a valid consent, although it may also be provided with digital signature and in writing. I mean, we could move towards e-Estonia and trusting one another.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U222	Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U223	Thank you, Mr President. Austet waitress! The provisions of the partnership agreement shall apply to the spouses in fact. Is it regulated anywhere, how many members may be in such a partnership, and of what sex must or may be?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U224	No, it's not. I say once again that this debate, which has taken place in the Committee on Legal Affairs of the Riigikogu, but also since the bill was submitted in Estonian society in general, suggests that we can consider abandoning the principle of a partnership agreement and relying solely on a factual partnership. That is what I personally consider to be perfectly reasonable. I'm sure the lawyers have some discussion points here. But if it works in other countries, why shouldn't it work in Estonia? In the sense of family law, there is a general restriction on the subject, or only two adults have been considered. If we are looking at the Swedish Law on Cohabitation, it has been pointed out in exactly the same way that it must be a couple. The couple are known to belong to at least two people and at the same time up to two people. It is also stressed that these two people can be expected to have sexual relations. I feel more and more that this is the right solution for us. Now I will complement the answers to my good colleagues Valdo Randpere and Imre Sooääre. The difference is, you don't have to go to the notary to register anything, you don't have to choose the type of property relationship at the notary, and you don't have to lay down all the details in case of divorce. Guy de Maupassant has a novel whose title, unfortunately, doesn't ring a bell right now. The contents of the novel are how a man and woman split up and discover after the break-up that both of them have actually been silently writing notes about what each bought and writing behind a book with a pencil, whether it was purchased by him or by the other. As people, we all understand that if we come from all this political correctness rhetoric on earth, that if we build up family law to the fact that people have to notarize the details of their divorce when they get together, that's what tunes people into breaking up. This is not really the Estonian society that we want to build or what we want to see in society. If I may add that it is nice that I have an arena here right now, I say that it is time to think about whether a marriage is registered with complete separation of property and the child is born in such a way that his parents do not belong to one married couple, whether it is keeping such a marriage institution that we generally consider right in family law, or whether it could be peacefully unregistered partnerships, which is what we allow, among other things. If we make this registration hugely difficult, we will not protect the weaker side. We don't protect people who want to register a life together, but whose partner doesn't want it. Women have not spoken very much about this, nor is it too popular to talk about it in Estonian society, but there are women. I dare even say that the wife of some nonmarital members of the Riigikogu has also admitted that she would be happy to get married, but the man has not been interested so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U225	Let's hope that changes. Heljo Pikhof.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U226	Thank you. Honourable waitress! If an official married woman lives in fact with another man and decides on a good day that she will return to her legal spouse, will that partner The so-called parallel life has been lived. At the moment, this is clearly what comes out of the bill. Please explain!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U227	It does not come out of this bill, but it comes out of the current family law and its legal separation. The property you have acquired during your separation is to be divided according to your legal separation, not according to the fact that you are registered to be married to someone third who was first in the beginning. Perhaps the family law that is already in force will give you a rule on how to share property in this case. What's the IRL bill? In fact, if you have a child born with a new partner during your separation, you must also take care of that part of the family. There's nothing new here either. If we look at all the custody issues in the current family law, it comes from the post-WWII logic when men were few, women were many, and children were desperately needed. That is when the regulation was formally introduced, allowing a person to have an extramarital child who is not subject to custody, but has a maintenance obligation. It's nicely regulated in the family law. This regulation on custody should, of course, go on, because perhaps it is a little outdated. But that's my personal opinion again.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U228	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U229	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I recaptured the positions contained in the bill and met six. One of them is about something related to children, and it is more specifically about the obligation to support a factual spouse. Your introductory presentation had the greatest emphasis on protecting children, but it seems that there is little talk about children in this bill. However, the question is that in the current family law, the protection of the child is primarily based on parenthood, which is the result of a relationship between the child and his or her parent. When it comes to the relationship between spouses or partners, it is about family support, but the rights and obligations are primarily due to parentage. Do you think that should change?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U230	Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs Neeme! Unfortunately, I have no family law ahead of me here, but I think it is §§ 15, 16 and 17 of the current law, which clearly states that family members must support each other and, above all, support children who grow in the family. In addition, there is indeed a parentage obligation in this law, which means that the people of Estonia are obliged to support each other two generations forward and two generations backward. Again, I don't have a valid family law ahead of me, but I think it was § 96 and 97. I describe the most common situation when people develop a conflict and the child is left without legal protection. A man and a woman, okay, let's just leave the swamps aside, or adult A and adult B live together for a long time, but they haven't registered their cohabitation anywhere. They have four children, and now adults A and B decide to break up. The house where adult A and B and their children C, D, E and F lived is, for example, in the name of adult A. If they have not bought this house together, then this adult B will literally move under the tree with the children. The current legislation does not even guarantee the right to housing for such a family living together in fact. Family law, yes, provides for a living for children. In a certain interpretation, the court has the right to extend this obligation to provide maintenance in such a way as to ensure that children retain any housing, but in practice we also see that, in the case of fathers working in Finland, or anyone with a high income and decent property, the maintenance allowance is calculated only to cover the daily costs of children, the actual housing arrangements are not taken into account. We're actually assuming that one adult is more committed to raising children, the other maybe paying off a mortgage, but together they've been living. After all, the feedback that has come from society has supported the view that we have a very large number of couples living in a common-law relationship. It has been repeatedly stressed from this remote unit that we are going the wrong way if we assume that these people should now go somewhere to register. We better protect their rights in the way the Swedish state does so, so that the weaker party has the right to protection simply on the basis of the fact that people have been living together permanently. It is relatively short-sighted to argue against this, especially given the practice of other countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U231	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U232	I'm sorry! But I understand, Liisa, that you still got your bill. Let's get to the questions. They relate not to copyright law, but to family law. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U233	My little delay was due to difficulties with the printer, but we did it. I dedicate the time given to me to introducing the general background in family law matters, as prescribed by the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu. General family law has always had one purpose: to protect humanity, its kind, to protect the weaker side, whether children or other people in the family need help, and to protect them all from injustice. When we think about the discussions on family law that are currently being held in Estonian society, we must start by stating a relatively sad fact. As a historian, I have to admit that in the last 20 years, I do not remember the lack of freedom of expression that is currently in the public space of Estonia in matters of family law. When the Chairwoman of the Estonian Association of Women's Lawyers was invited on morning television, he wanted to start talking about the concerns of the Cohabitation Act, but the host specifically told him: 'This is not what we are talking about. " It reminds one of the paradigms of Soviet times when there were some topics that only certain people and only certain things could speak about, using only certain words and expressions. All other expressions were either eliminated or stamped as unfit. I hope that the debate on the draft proposed by IRL in the next few minutes in the Riigikogu will help to widen this issue a little bit, and we can talk about the substance for which we have gathered here in the Riigikogu. I'll continue as a historian. Speaking of family law in Estonia, it has to be said that for the longest time we had Lübeck law. The exact number of years cannot be pointed out, because we do not know exactly when it came into force, but for at least 600 years, that time would last. The family law part of Lübeck's law has only one objective: protection of the weakest party, i.e. protection of the child. If you will allow me, I will read you a few points from here so that you will understand how dramaticly different the situation is, compared to what our plot has seen for more than 600 years, we have come into existence in modern times. According to Article 4 of the Lübeck Law, for example, if a husband and wife unite themselves in marriage and each of them has children before they are legal, neither a man nor a woman can add their possessions to the other without the consent of the children, so that it is legal. In essence, in today's sense, it means that if a marriage or cohabitation partner dies and a biological parent wishes to register a new relationship, he or she should obtain the consent of his or her children in order to combine his or her property with the property of a new partner. Otherwise, children may lose their inheritance. Or § 5: If a man dies with a wife and a man has to share a treasure with his children, he must first take his weapons and clothing, which is left over, all of it must be shared equally with the children. When we think about the present-day family law, there is a priority heir to the husband and what remains of him goes to the division of children. It has often been said that in the dark Middle Ages, moral standards were somewhat different. But let's see, for example, § 25, with which I will end the history of the tour. It says that whoever was born of a concubine will receive no inheritance, but his inheritance will be the closest relative to him. In essence, this meant that even nonmarital children would in any case inherit their share, only that part likely became the mother of the child or another close relative. But under any circumstances, the whole point and content of family law was to ensure that, in any adult decision, the child would receive his or her inheritance and the next generation would grow up safely. When we look at the current family law room, we see that we have moved in the opposite direction. However, if we are looking at the debate currently taking place in Estonian society, it turns out that unfortunately, this trend is going even further inverse. We're coming up with a real life together. This is a modern concept, which was so recognised by Lübeck law that, in any form of partnership, the heirs must primarily be children and no new form of partnership must be opened in the material sense without their consent. The Swedish Cohabitation Act, which has often set an example for us, has actually followed the same principle, which we have long known from written sources. The Swedish Cohabitation Act is intended to protect the weaker party and regulates the distribution of property in a situation where two partners living together have not registered their cohabitation. The Swedish Cohabitation Act applies to couples who meet three conditions: they have to live together permanently, they have to live together permanently in a relationship that normally involves sexual life, and they have to have a common household. Yes, there is no role in whether these partners are of the opposite sex or of the same sex. The Swedish state has done well to ascertain whether these people actually live together or not. The main objective of protecting the weaker side of cohabitation has been well achieved by this cohabitation law. It has not been heard that Swedish society has had a greater discussion on the need for bottlenecks or amendments to this law. I will tell those who want to know more specifically that children are not affected by this cohabitation law. He only deals with the sharing of common housing and related property in the event of a break-up, assuming that the parent who stays in parenthood will in any case be entitled to live in that residence. By the way, there is no such principle in Estonian family law. This is where we come to the draft submitted by the Fatherland and Res Publica Association, which proposes to introduce substantially similar regulation into Estonian family law. We take as a basis that a large number of people live in Estonia without registering their cohabitation (otherwise, I belong to them). Our draft offers confidence to the weaker side of the partnership so that in the event of a breakup, a person would not find himself in very unexpected difficulties and property relationships would be fairly and well organised. It should also be stressed that the proposals for amendments to the draft Law on Partnerships proposed by the Ministry of Justice fully support the principle offered by the Fatherland and Res Publica Union. In fact, they have made it clear that a family is a unit that has to maintain one another, which is actually a pretty heavy obligation when a family member needs permanent maintenance or care. The family definition here is similar to that of the Fatherland and Res Publica Association that they are living together. Why, then, is the draft proposed by the IRL better and more important than the amendments that came from the Ministry of Justice? I come back to the beginning of my speech for a moment and stress that the public debate in Estonian society has been disproportionate to hate speeches or interpretations of the old will, which do not have any real connection with the family law issues we are discussing here today, and which do not even have any connection to, for example, the part of the family law of Lübeck law. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. In the same way, the decisions and laws of the Riigikogu that we offer here to the people of Estonia should deal only with the protection of the weaker party in matters of partnership. We are absolutely certain that the draft of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Association offers a better and more legally clear and secure solution than that of the obligation to register a partnership and only then can protection be granted, according to world practice, but also on the basis of the practice of neighbouring countries and taking into account the real situation in Estonia. There is another important aspect here that I dare to highlight when it comes to child protection. I have been following these debates very closely, which have been on the law of partnership. I am concerned about the fact that there is also a very important desire to differentiate between the rights of children or the rights of those raising children, depending on whether or not these persons have made this registration act. Believe me, such a principle is contrary to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and it is also contrary to what the reality of Estonian society is or what Estonian society really expects or needs. A letter from the Estonian Women's Doctors' Association to the Riigikogu, which was received a few days ago and which was very unambiguously supporting the better protection of children born in unregistered partnerships, was remarkable in this sense that women's doctors are always in contact with mothers and fathers who have to resolve serious social or ethical issues, among other things. The fact that the highly educated doctors who are so closely involved in family law issues have understood all this public discussion that it is precisely the unregistered partnerships that we want to protect here in the Riigikogu Chamber and give them better legal security status, that this draft of the Fatherland and Res Publica Association was also prepared to do so, is the most eloquent example that this is the road that we really need to take. We are fully willing to work together to ensure that the weakest party, children or those raising children, can enjoy better legal protection. We believe that there will be problems if such a decision is not taken. I'll show you a little bit. While at the end of August there was a public debate on the Cohabitation Act in the Riigikogu Conference Hall, representatives of the same-sex circles provided examples where the biological parent of the child had disappeared unknown in a foreign country and was not contacted, but the person actually raising the child should take important decisions in the interests of the child's well-being. They emphasized that this person should necessarily have a registered relationship with the child, otherwise there might be a situation where decisions on the child may be made by persons who do not wish him or her the best. True, the fact that the grandparents of the child were brought, for example, was certainly not the most successful, since grandparents have a maintenance obligation for grandchildren when the parents are absent or when the parents are unable to provide maintenance. But if we're going towards an Estonia where you can't help a child without registration, it would be very abnormal. Even now, it is not the case that you need any registration. I do not consider it right and ethical to give personal examples, but I am going to make a small exception here because there are probably further examples, but there is not much talk about them in public. When my fourth child was born, there was such a clause in the Parental Benefits Act that if one of the parents receives parental benefit, the child care benefit is taken away, which is quite logical in itself. At the time of the birth of my fourth child, neither of the parents of the child received parental benefit, yet the Social Insurance Institution withdrew the child's care benefit. I turned to the Ministry of Social Affairs for an explanation and received a white answer that one person has moved into my family, his sex, by the way, was not absolutely important, who lives with my children and he is supposed to support my children. So what if it isn't her biological children and what if no registrations have been made in any of the registers? To be honest, that explanation made sense. Think for a moment if we move from such a system of living to a situation where people can only be protected if they have passed the bureaucratic gauntlet, which, by the way, as we see from the current practice, is perhaps not the most acceptable for the people of Estonia, then we are not really defending either the weaker party or the rights of children. Once again, in neighbouring countries, elsewhere in Europe and also in Estonia's own history, these ways of protecting the weakest party without registration or without the need to do so have been well tested. Let us, then, be more tolerant to people who do not want to register their cohabitation, but who actually deserve the same social protection as we generally foresee for the weaker party. If there are any suggestions on how to improve this draft and it can certainly be improved, this is the case with all family law regulations, because they have contact with a lot of other laws and regulations, then this can be done between the first and second readings. I therefore urge you to stop reading the first reading today so that you can move forward calmly and constructively for the benefit of people whose need for protection was unanimously emphasised, among other things, by the Management Board of the Estonian Women's Doctors' Association at its meeting. If you have any questions, I would ask someone from my group to bring me this draft so that I can answer the questions better. But I'd be happy to answer them.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U234	Liisa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U235	Thanks! I got it. Thank you so much for listening. I apologize for this long historic tour, but it actually has a lot more meaning today than we may have imagined. Oh, it's a copyright bill! Thank you, George! [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U236	What's an informal marriage like? But basically, I understand that question. Once again, let us take the example of Sweden, which, according to several polls, is considered to be the most tolerant country in the world or which is at least the top three. In this context, when I look at the Estonian Family Law, on which this draft, which has been submitted by the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, is based, I see that there is a great deal of registration in our legal space concerning the family in general. In fact, together with the draft law amending the Family Law, 657 could review the need for an oral agreement and a written agreement. The bill assumes that the contract may also be oral, it does not have to be registered anywhere. The important thing is that two people live together in fact. By the way, Estonian family law provides for the possibility that you are married, but you live with someone else, and if you want to get divorced, it will be taken into account if you have in fact lived with another person. The legal part of separation in Estonian family law is beautiful and regulates both maintenance obligations and all other matters arising from legal separation. Estonia also regulates the current family law case when a child whose father is not the spouse of that woman is born from marriage, etc. For the points in force so far, it has not been exclaimed that "whoa," it promotes multi-manage or multi-wifeing. Both the rules of legal separation of the current family law and the recognition of the paternity of a child born of marriage, if the father is not the wife's wife, were discussed here in the Chamber of the Riigikogu in 2009. Nobody thought, then, that these points were meant to encourage multimanship or multiwifeism. In this sense, I do not agree with the definition that you have proposed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U237	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U238	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You said this whole bill was primarily meant to protect the weakest party, the child. When I pick up the bill, I see basically three issues here. First, it is assumed that a partnership agreement has been concluded for the organisation of a joint household; second, it talks about the entry in the land register; third, it refers to the maintenance of the factual spouse who cares for the child and also to the case where the factual spouse cannot take care of his or her own maintenance. Now, if we take this third issue out, I won't even find the word 'child' in the rest of the paragraphs. So how does this bill still protect a child?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U239	Thank you. The fundamental difference is in the middle section. After all, the situation is that honeycomb families are not only the fastest growing family type in Estonia, but also the fastest growing family type in the world. These issues, which we have been discussing in public in Estonia, or even in public in recent times, when we have talked about children, are largely centred around what is a legal relationship and a legal framework if the child does not live with both biological parents but in a family where one or both of them are not their biological parents. Let's take the simplest example. Adult A, adult B and child C. Adult A is the biological parent of child C and adult B is not the biological parent of that child. If Bill 657 were to enter into force as a law and the family law was to be supplemented, then even after the break-up, adult A with child C would be entitled to claim maintenance from adult B, who is not the biological parent of the child, but was fully involved in raising the child. This is a significant difference because the child will then have an additional guarantee. When I look at the amendments proposed by the Ministry of Justice to the draft law on cohabitation, I see that the Ministry of Justice actually provides similar regulation, but assumes that adult A and B have previously registered the partnership between each other in a notarial manner. If that were the case, we'd have two types of kids. If draft 650 were adopted in the form supplemented by the Ministry of Justice, there would be some children who would receive additional maintenance from their parent's interim partner and other children who would not receive it. The difference would depend on whether the biological parent of the child has visited a notary or not. A situation where the legal or economic situation of a child depends on whether or not the adults living with it have carried out a registration procedure is considered to be completely abnormal. I'd put one thing on my heart. The Human Rights Centre published a press release a few days ago, where Marianne Meiorg said that, after the conclusion of the partnership agreement, the child will have the right to communicate with the child as a factual adult. I would say in clear Estonian that you should sleep sober! Oh, really! When a child is raised by an adult who is a member of that family, I'm sorry, he communicates with that child when he raises him. I can't imagine, of course, my fantasy is limited to how you can raise a child without having any contact with him, or how this right to communicate with a child is suppressed. Let's not get into some kind of mystery, shall we?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U240	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U241	Thank you. I have another question. First of all, I wouldn't ask you to do something as colorful as you asked the Human Rights Centre to do, but I still have to fix one mistake. You quoted the Swedish sambolagen and talked about it and our cohabitation law. I've been doing a little bit to get you on that trail myself.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U242	Tack så mycket!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U243	But you've missed one thing. Sambolagen was in force in Sweden since 1987. In 2003, it was converted, a new law came in, and then there was the possibility of registration, which was specifically intended for the same sexes. But that's it. I have a question for you. The Supreme Court has said that if some form of transaction is notarial proof, then the partnership agreement must also be notarised. In your draft, you go completely against it and say that regardless of the form in which the partnership agreement has been concluded. Why did you...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U244	Good questioner, time!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U245	Ladies and gentlemen, Family and family safety are issues that we need to deal with constantly. The draft is welcome for its purpose, and the debate on the protection of the rights of people living as a family must certainly be continued. Thank you also for introducing Liisa-Lyd Lübeck law. I could not help but note that the rights of children in succession were highlighted there, but there was no indication of women's rights. The wife, as her husband and later mother, was likely to receive maintenance from her children, who were heirs. But right now, we should ask whether we are still ready to have a wide-ranging regulation of the legal relationships arising from a factual marriage. Like all previous speakers, I am a parallel example of the draft law on cohabitation. There is a very large difference between the draft law on partnership and this draft law. The registration of a partnership within the meaning of the draft law requires a declaration of will by two persons and only concerns those who have submitted such a declaration of intent, and the rest only offers a theoretical opportunity. On the other hand, the draft in question considers that all people who have lived with someone on a permanent basis are genuinely married. First of all, the fact that the draft does not require anyone's consent to formalise the relationship in any way must be mentioned. Whoever doesn't want to do it, they get the status of a factual spouse automatically, so it falls on their heads. It is still the case that the state is very strongly interfering with people's private autonomy, that is, people's privacy. The term "permanent partnership" in the draft is not defined either by the date of commencement, maturity or permanence of the partnership itself. However, it is very difficult to take account of the start and end dates of a life together. This could perhaps be done through in-depth legal proceedings. According to the draft, all persons in a permanent partnership shall be regarded as factual spouses and they shall be presumed to have entered into a partnership agreement. According to the Law of Obligations Act, however, a company may not dispose of the property belonging to the partnership or require the division of the partnership property. Do all those who have lived with someone for a shorter or longer period of time perceive that, according to this legislative amendment, for example, one person would be considered to be part of the car partnership property acquired and could no longer be sold independently by the person who acquired the car? Then there should be an argument as to whether the transfer of such a right would require one week, two weeks, a month, two months or three months. If, at the time of the cohabitation, one factual spouse has acquired real estate, the second factual spouse has the right to demand that he or she be entered as a co-owner in the land register. This is not a matter of allowing a prison visit under the Prisons Act, if the concept of a factual spouse is really used. It's different. If the Penal Code takes into account the right of a factual spouse to visit the prisoner in prison, the application of this Act would automatically affect a very large number of people and their relationship with each other. I would like to talk for a moment about the amendment of § 79 of the Family Act and the maintenance obligation. A similar defence mechanism currently exists in § 111 of the Family Act. The obligation arising from it does not depend on whether or not the child's father and mother have recorded their relationship in any way, but on the automatic nature of the obligation and the biological origin of it. However, as regards the acquisition of real estate, unfortunately, the draft does not fulfil its purpose; automatic protection does not actually apply to factual spouses, since partnership agreements relating to real estate should be notarised anyway. Three options have been analysed: registration-based, contractual and pre-requisite. This draft will choose the most radical, i.e. pre-requisite, registration path. In fact, in the face of the problem of people living in unregistered partnerships, the Social Democratic Party also considers it necessary to continue the debate in order to increase the internal security of the family. However, we cannot support this draft, it would obviously be too early and too radical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U246	Thank you. I ask for a speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, Liisa-Ly Pakosta!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U247	I did not intend to come to this remote control, but the difference between the paradigms that the representative of the Social Democratic Party Group, Neeme Suur, was talking about was cause for concern enough to come and speak. Now let's renegotiate the simple things. Which Estonia do we want? Do we want the kind of Estonia where the weaker half, the children who grow in the family, will only be protected if "the adults living with the child have been dating and registered in five different ways" or are we actually protecting the weaker half in the real social situation where the Republic of Estonia is today, in 2014, probably also for the next 20 years and where we have been for the last 20 years? If we base ourselves on the interpretation of the Social Democratic Party Group, Swedish society should have collapsed a long time ago, because that is where the cohabitation law is based on a factual partnership without any registration. It turns out that this means a complete disaster, the worst example of which the Social Democratic Party pointed out that maybe somebody will lose their car. Imagine how horrible I was living with someone, and maybe I'll lose my car when I'm done living together. Really terrible! What about the kids? What happens to the weaker half of it, it's not like it's in the big picture at all. I am simply reminding you that Swedish society, according to surveys, happens to have the happiest parents in Europe, and that there are much bigger crops there than in Estonia. Perhaps by recognising and protecting children and their right to have a home, such a factual partnership has produced very good results. You asked about Lübeck's right, maybe even a little ironic. Researchers in the Middle Ages or this period have quite thoroughly pointed out that the regulation of men's and women's rights at that time was different from that currently in force, just as there were differences between the internal division of labour and many other things, but this did not mean that the situation of women was significantly worse than it is today. By the way, according to the law of Lübeck, the citizen of the city could not in any way have a situation, as any woman who was a citizen of the Republic of Estonia might have had an anno Domini 2014 so that she would be left in the sky or in the hands of four winds, but the legal space at that time guaranteed her economic protection. Of course, we should not take over the regulation of relations between women and men from Lübeck's right today, but what concerns children and their custody, we would have reason to read about it, to think about it and to use it now. I'll say it again. We are voting here today on whether we really want to protect the weaker side and children, in any family these children will grow, or whether we are going to go out of our way to protect the weaker side as if it were too much interference, which really pissed me off at people's privacy. Really, please, we will proceed with this draft, we will find a better wording, but let us not make the protection of children's rights conditional on someone thinking that a non-notarial life together may suddenly deprive him of his car when raising children. That's what really pissed me off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U248	Thank you for that question. First of all, let's stick to the facts. The Fatherland and Res Publica Association have made it very clear at different moments in their written statements on the registration of partnerships that we consider better protection of children's rights to be essential. This expression has been in all the appeals we have made in writing on family law matters, and I hope that it has also been in oral appeals. This bill also protects children, regardless of whether or not adults living with them have gone to register with a notary. That's the most important thing. Children's rights must not depend on how often their parents have visited a notary. We have discussed the Company Agreement here several times. The Ministry of Justice has removed from its website a long analysis of the alternatives to the registration of life together, prepared by Andra Holm. With a little Google, it's gonna find out. But also from this analysis, which has now been taken off the website of the Ministry of Justice, it turns out that the option of registering an unregistered partnership at the time was less or more linked to the idea of a partnership agreement. At the time, it was popular. We have largely followed this analysis when drafting this draft, but I repeat that the mid-term discussions have been grateful in the sense that progress can be made in improving this draft. However, given the interests of children alone, this first reading should not necessarily be stopped, because in that case we would make children's rights dependent on their parents'close presence at the notary, and that is not right.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U249	A procedural question, Imre Sooäär.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U250	Please specify if you really thought you shouldn't stop! You said so.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U251	I'm sorry! We should stop. Thank you for that clarification. The first reading of draft law 657 should necessarily be followed by a second reading, where the text of the draft text would have been corrected in the debate, and, of course, before 1 March, by a third reading, where a revised text could be adopted with common consent and force.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U252	Thank you very much to all those who contributed. Let's keep going. Please, Tiina Lock-Tramberg!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U253	Thank you. I'm listening and listening to you, and it seems to me that there's actually a bunch of stuff in this story that they're trying to avoid like hot potatoes. It has to do with the word'same gender'. When we talk about the protection of children, their safety and anything else, we cannot overcome or alter the fact that very many children live in families of the same sex, with same-sex couples. Speaking of relationships, you kept saying that it was based on supposed sexuality. I'm sorry, but if two men or two women live together, they're sexual, too, and they may have children. You never spoke of their children's right. In other words, we still come to the same problem of the cohabitation law that comes from children and their rights raised and raised by same-sex couples.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U254	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U255	Thank you for that question. Unfortunately, I don't have the results of the census here, but I think 42 children lived with same-sex couples, according to the last census. Each of these children lived with a pair of two women, one of these adults being the biological parent of the child. This principle stems from the meaning of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the meaning of the current Child Protection Act and also from the idea of the draft new Child Protection Act under discussion that the well-being of children should not really depend on which adults they are living together with. It's an absolute foundation. Every family with even one child is a happy family. I started my presentation with a briefing on Lübeck law. There, all family law had focused on only one thing: protecting the rights of the child. I will give further examples of Lübeck law. Upon reaching the age of age, the child was also entitled to take away his or her inheritance share from his or her parents and walk away with it. Nothing was supposed to stop it. As a reminder, the girl then became an adult at the age of 12 and a young man at the age of 18. This principle has been through the history of mankind that the rights of the child must be protected as a matter of priority, regardless of whether they live with biological or non-biological parents, whether they live with their grandmother or their siblings, and whether their parents are in another country. This must be the basis of all legislation. The draft law amending the Family Act 657 provides that you must support your family and the parent of a child raised in your family, or the person raising that child after the break-up, whether you have visited a notary or not. The principle is quite clear: in any case, the child needs protection. One of the most common family types in Estonia is grandmother and grandson, but this has nothing to do with the subject matter of both drafts.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U256	Barbi Pilvre, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U257	Thank you. Good waitress! It is certainly a vital area and important problems. What, though, is a permanent partnership in the context of this bill? Where does it start? Does this mean a month's life together or a half-year's life together? Where do property liabilities start and how to start playing with real estate, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U258	The Swedish Cohabitation Act also defines simply and laconically that cohabitation must be long-term and permanent enough. In the Swedish court, this time of living together has been interpreted differently, each case being individual. However, I think that a couple of weeks of living together is not a permanent partnership, but a year and longer life together could already be permanent. This depends on a great many circumstances, including what these people do together. There may also be a family life that, although living together for ten years according to the population register, has been working in another country for ten years. This is again a matter of interpretation. It makes no sense to give a clear temporal definition that it must not have lasted less than... or that it must have necessarily lasted as long as... With regard to the maintenance obligation of the former spouse in fact, it is stated that the partnership should have lasted for at least 10 years. Whether this period could be ten years or shorter or longer, it is a question of debate. But, as I said before, such a life partner's maintenance principle already exists in the current family law. The current family law also does not define the length of a marriage. In fact, according to the current family law, there may be a situation in which two people get married, but on the next day, one of the spouses is going to make a car accident and become disabled, three weeks from now they will be separated, because the other spouse is going through more than that or the marriage is not what he imagined it would be, but he still has, even though living together maybe one day, a maintenance obligation for the rest of his life. It's all about a lot of things. I believe that this will come up here today, but the improvements proposed by the Ministry of Justice on the law of cohabitation actually define the maintenance between family members. It's true that some of them must have been to the notary, that's the difference. The Ministry of Justice has not seen any problems in determining maintenance obligations within the family circle. A few years ago, I put on my web of time family interpretations of Estonian law. In every law, the Riigikogu has defined the family quite differently. So we have never agreed on a definition of a family in this Chamber either. If I can tell you a secret, I think that's impossible. We cannot say that grandmother and grandson are not family, we cannot say that two young people who live together without registration are not family. During this discussion, which has been around the Cohabitation Act, I have been tried several times to say that my family with five children is not really a family because I and my partner have not registered a partnership in a notarial manner. I've disagreed. But let's try to make a law so that we don't have situations where you're going to say you have five children, but you're not a family because you haven't been to a notary.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U259	Rein Lang, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U260	Thank you. Good Liisa! I can't stop asking. When you wrote this draft with the help of the Swedish-Estonian dictionary at the IRL late in the evening, was it also a question of coming back to the principle that applied in Estonia for 50 years that the fatherhood of a child can be established by means of a witness statement?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U261	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The position of the commission is that draft 657 should be rejected at first reading. Let's start preparing the vote. Dear colleagues, I would like to put to the vote the draft proposal of the lead committee 657 to be rejected at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There were 47 members of the Riigikogu with 10 abstentions. Draft 657 has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the procedure. The 11th item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U262	Back then, when this pretty old law provision was in force, there wasn't such a wonderful thing as a DNA test. Now it's possible to do this little thing with a hair. Whether the DNA test has made mankind happier or not, I can't tell you, and that certainly wasn't the point of your question either. However, in a situation where paternity or, if necessary, maternity can be so easily detected, there is no reason, I think, to review the existing identification procedures. If you go on with these questions, even without a dictionary, I like the very principle of Swedish law, for example, that if your father discovers that he has paid a living allowance to a child who is not really his child, then he has the right to request that the state pay him back that allowance. There is no such possibility in Estonia, however, it is possible to bring proceedings against the child's biological mother. I am not quite sure that the child would be better protected in Estonia than in Sweden. Personally, it seems to me that the Swedish model is better. However, if we were to discuss this in this Chamber, there would be a huge debate that could be encouraged by all of this. This is not the subject of today's debate. The subject of today's debate is that a person does not need to have a certificate of notary presence in order to protect the minimum rights arising from a permanent partnership, especially with regard to children. Once again, just in case, when we look at today's family model, it is no different from the family model 200 or 600 years ago. The only difference is that in the old days, honeycomb families were born quite often, not because someone left the family, but because one of the biological parents died. Although Lübeck's law also regulated those cases when one biological parent left the family.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U263	Tiina Lock-Tramberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U264	Thank you. I want no/yes response. I fully welcome the attempt to avoid that cohabitation must be based on a contract concluded with a notary and that children's rights should be protected only if this agreement exists. But does this bill also protect the rights of these children and do you recognise that a relationship can also be between same-sex people who together raise children, be they 42, 420 or 4200? No, you don't?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U265	The Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance have never thought that children would only grow in families with their two biological parents who are married to each other. The Estonian family model palette is as different as it is. I fully agree with the conclusion of the Director of the Estonian Institute of Demography, poetry Sakkeus, that a normal state should be governed by the protection of children's rights in its legal order, regardless of the association of adults living with children or whether these adults have registered or not. This latter was also highlighted in the unanimous decision of the board of the Estonian Women's Doctors' Association. I have not noticed that no party would have opposed the list of family models used for the census by Statistics Estonia. If I remember correctly, there were over 30 family types, I don't know the exact number by heart. Maybe there were 40 of these family types. It was possible for a person to choose which of them he belonged to.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U266	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Please ask Marko Pomerantsi, Vice-Chairman of the Legal Committee of the Riigikogu to speak at the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U267	Liisa has done very well as a representative of the initiator. He did not participate in the discussions on this draft in the Committee on Legal Affairs, but in the preparation of the draft in the IRL Group. So I think he's done very well. For starters, before I go to the Commission's report, I will still bring you back to the context where all these procedures and discussions have started. We come to the meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs on Tuesday. In the meantime, the initiators of the Cohabitation Act were also a little unclear to whom, how large the law was intended and what it should regulate. But I found today an excellent source such as the article by Google Postimees, published on 21 October 2012, where Michal, the Minister at the time, says that the purpose of the proposed regulation is to protect children and the weaker side of the partnership and to give additional certainty to the partner who has stayed home with the child and is committed to caring for the family. After all, according to him, questions of property arise only when a fight or unexpected events occur, such as a sudden deterioration in the health of one of the partners. Michal said that this is a common Mate and Kat problem, which we will solve with this, not the Matilde and Kats problem. What we have come to today is a matter of our own, and that is why it is gratifying that there is an IRL that came up with this bill. This is where the definition of long-term relationship was asked. I read, I have to admit, about the story of one Chronicle, that after a five-month long-term relationship, a young singer went to refresh her relationship by some warm water. Five months could therefore be an example. But I'm here as a Commission waitress, sorry! Let's get down to business. The Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee discussed 657 issues twice. A longer substantive debate took place on 17 June. In addition to the members of the committee present, Susann Mikli, Adviser to the Department of Private Law at the Ministry of Justice, also participated in the debate. I was then in the role of the representative of the initiator and explained the main objectives of the draft, namely the legal regulation of non-marriage partnerships, in order to give people who are not married but who are permanently living together, factual spouses, a reasonable opportunity to defend their rights in relation to property acquired in the course of a partnership and, in justified cases, to obtain maintenance after the expiry of the partnership. The draft act helps to clarify the property regimes of the spouses of fact and also provides for maintenance obligations relating to the partnership. I stressed at the time that we would not introduce new terms and pointed out that our draft was not intended to legalise the legal registration of same-sex partnerships. If anyone comes up with a question that we will then regulate, I say that these are changes to the family law, and that is why we will focus first and foremost on those people who, according to various data, are 200,000 or 170000, or whatever, and who may be in such trouble as Mr Michal described at the time. These are regular Kats and Mats. As a representative of the initiator, I wondered why the Government of the Republic did not come forward to us personally by Minister of Justice Andres Anvelt, even though he did so in the case of the Cohabitation Act. What's the difference? But I can be quite clear that the initiator achieved that the Minister of Justice took part in the second debate on 8 September. In June, Susann Mikli, adviser to the private law department of the Ministry of Justice, presented the Government of the Republic's opinion to the Commission, who stated that the Government of the Republic did not support the draft law on the amendment of the Family Law initiated by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica. He said that the Ministry of Justice considered the subject matter to be relevant and correct, but the main issue is the question of what is supposed to be a factual partnership. Nor does the draft take into account persons who knowingly do not want their cohabitation to have legal consequences. Without expressing their own will, interference with their private autonomy is justified only on the basis of legitimate objectives and reasonable and clear criteria. If there are no such criteria, this could lead to a large increase in the number of legal disputes. The problem is also that the issue of same-sex persons is not regulated. As I said, this bill wasn't meant to be. Mr Gräzin expressed the opinion that these criteria could be formulated, but his party associates did not think that they would do so. At the meeting on 8 September, Andres Anvelt, Minister of Justice, announced that the subject was very complex and that the current government was not prepared to deal with this draft. They have, however, committed themselves to contributing to the improvement of the Cohabitation Act, which is because there are a hundred amendments to the implementing provisions, not to mention the substance of the draft. According to the Minister, this would be a major paradigm shift and it would be particularly difficult to establish the beginning of a factual partnership. Could a one-night stand be enough to create a life together? Mr Gräzin thought that if anything changed the paradigm, it would be the law of cohabitation. Mr Morozov asked how the draft would affect the number of marriages, and Mr Laane asked how the draft would help single parents. The answer to Morozov's question was that we assume that it will not reduce the number of marriages. After all, the initiators of the Cohabitation Act have also stressed that the most secure way of living, when it comes to legal clarity, obligations and rights, remains a marriage. I recommend everyone! The answer to Kalle Laanet's question of how the draft helps single parents was that these specific additional provisions do not change anything for single parents. Mr Randpere thought that the Estonian people were not ready for such a leap, the right time would be 20 years from now. The initiator's representative was also asked questions in this Chamber. Indeed, all the questions concerning what the criteria could be for a factual partnership were also at stake. In addition, we had this debate, which was also being held here, as regards the issue of the partnership agreement, whether or not there must be a notarial agreement. These questions were raised and therefore the initiator's representative asked whether it would not be right to discuss family law issues in the same way as was done in the cohabitation law seminars. Mr Randpere thought it should be dealt with by the IRL. Therefore, not as a representative of the Commission, but as a representative of the IRL, I say that we are going to take the festival of dangerous ideas. The Commission also took procedural decisions. First it was decided to make the first reading in the hall today. In addition, the Commission decided that the decision also had votes against, but not enough that the draft had to be rejected. Finally, I quote a small paragraph from the news of 21 April of national broadcasting, where Minister Anvelt thought that, as a democrat, he would be happy to see the law go further, and the partnership needs to be regulated, but that factual cohabitation can be identified by a number of signs, such as a common household and address, common children, etc. Come on, get it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U268	Thank you. You have questions. Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U269	Thank you to the President of the sitting and to the Commission rapporteur. Although parallels are drawn here between the Cohabitation Act and the Family Act, they are still different: one would solve these problems, the other would not solve them. Did you discuss in the Commission that there has been a similar approach in a number of European countries? In England, the focus has been on various points of dispute, usually involving children's care, inheritance, or property acquired during their life together. Did the Commission provide examples of how this problem has been resolved in other countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U270	Thanks! Let me give you a brief answer. If you take this analysis, which no longer hangs in the place where it hangs, and which needs to be Googled elsewhere, then in fact, there are countries in Europe today, even though we did not discuss the cases of so-called individual countries, where the reality of cohabitation is indeed accepted without any regulation. This also applies, for example, to the movement of persons, etc. But we did not delve more specifically into the examples of many countries, because we have Valdo Randpere among us, who has introduced the ideals of Swedish life to us on different drafts. We now had the same Swedish example that Liisa had already presented here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U271	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U272	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague! Does the bill also deal with a situation in which a husband and wife live together, have a marriage registered and are raising children together?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U273	The family law really regulates this situation. We simply added some aspects to the family law that would like to be included. IRL supports the fact that people-to-people relationships that need to be regulated are first and foremost regulated in the family law, which talks about marriage, man and woman and all the resulting issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U274	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? They do. I'm opening negotiations. I would like to ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group Neeme Suur!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U275	Mr President, three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U276	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U277	Let's move on to item 12. The first reading of the draft law amending the Copyright Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister of Justice Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U278	Mr President of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! It is my task today to present to you the draft law amending the Copyright Act, i.e. to talk about the transposition of the so-called orphan works directive. In advance, I say that orphan works are works whose author has not been identified. The broader objective of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council and of this draft law is to improve the preservation and accessibility of the cultural heritage of the Member States. The narrower objective is to determine the legal status of an orphan work, the authorised uses and conditions and the consequences of such use. In accordance with the principles of copyright and related rights regulation, the right object cannot be exercised without the consent of the rightholder. In the case of orphan works, however, no one can be asked for permission. Thus, under current law, the use of a large number of works and related rights (e.g. phonograms) through digitisation and making available to the public is not possible. The aim of the directive to be transposed is to resolve this problem so that these "locked works" can be used to a certain extent. Regulation does not apply to all types of works, but mainly works published in writing, such as books, magazines, newspapers, as well as audiovisual works in archives or collections, such as cinema films, video films, etc. The rules also apply to phonograms. The provisions apply to works and phonograms which are protected in a Member State of the European Union on or after 29 October 2014. This means that Estonia also covers, for example, the entire period before 1991. Photographs have been excluded from the scope of the Directive, but further revision of the Directive will allow clarification of its text. To this end, the provisions of the same Directive provide for the Commission to monitor the application of the Directive on an ongoing basis and to report by 29 October 2015 at the latest and annually thereafter on the possibility of including objects of different rights in the scope of the Directive. Individual photographs have been mentioned separately. In order for a work or phonogram to be designated and used as an orphan work, the memory institution in whose collection the work or phonogram belongs must carry out a careful search and document it. Memory institutions are public libraries, educational and scientific institutions, museums, archives, film or audio heritage institutions and national broadcasting. Appropriate sources to be determined by the Member State must be used for a diligent search, including at least the sources listed in the Annex to the Directive. The list is mandatory to follow. This list may be supplemented by a specific country's need. Where rightholders are not found in a diligent search, the memory institution shall forward this information to the competent authority of the Member State, which in turn shall immediately send the information to the Office for Harmonization in the Internal Market, which shall have a database of orphan works in the European Union. The Ministry of Justice has been designated as the competent authority in Estonia. A work or phonogram which is considered an orphan work in one Member State shall be regarded as an orphan work in all Member States. Since this is a case of mandatory free use applicable across countries, such an approach is practical and precludes the same subject-matter from being granted different status in different Member States. Memory institutions may use an act recognised as orphan works in the manner and under the conditions specified in the Directive and the draft. Firstly, orphan works can be made available to the public for cultural and educational purposes, which, among other things, essentially means creating the possibility of online use. Secondly, orphan works may be copied for digitisation, making available to the public, indexing, cataloguing, preservation or restoration purposes. Thirdly, their use may take place only for the purpose of carrying out tasks of public interest and provided that the names of all rightholders identified are indicated for each use. Through the regulation, our citizens will be able to access the cultural heritage of the European Union as a whole through the orphan works database. There will also be the possibility to use orphan works based on the "free use" cases already included in the Copyright Act. This means that orphan works cannot be used for commercial purposes, for example, but free use has been granted. The difference is that it is permitted to quote and use as illustrative material, for example, but collections of poems considered as orphan works are not allowed to be compiled and marketed. If a work is called an orphan, it may not always be that way. It is possible to change the status of an orphan work if the rightholder appears. The rightholder is also entitled to compensation for the time when the work or phonogram was used as an orphan work. In order to pay this fee, the draft provides for a system of setting up a committee consisting of experts in the field to determine the level of remuneration for a specific rightholder by decree of the Minister of Justice. The Commission must determine the amount of remuneration to be paid, taking into account both the damage suffered by the rightholder and the objectives of using the orphan work so far. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U279	Thank you, Minister. There's a question for you. Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U280	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! While discussing copyright, one issue has been raised for years. Author protection organisations and representatives of phonogram producers have addressed both the Government of the Republic and the ministries in order to update the list of media contained in the regulation. This list has become obsolete, there are VHS tapes and other media that should be replaced by digital, modern media. Now we're opening a copyright law. Is it possible to reach a social agreement on this issue too, so that we can bury the hatchet and really modernise its list of media so that authors, performers and phonogram producers can receive a fair reward?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U281	Thank you. Currently, the Ministry of Justice has a very wide-ranging process of codifying all Estonian copyright. Of course, you can also look at the extent to which or how this working group has dealt with this particular issue. I'm sure he's been working on it, but how much, here I owe you an answer right now. But this information can be passed on to you so that it is possible, as they say, to return on time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U282	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Please report to Tiina Lokk-Tramberg, Member of the Cultural Commission of the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U283	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for a very thorough and good overview. On 8 September, the Committee on Culture held a procedure for a draft law amending the Copyright Act. The amendments under discussion concern orphan works. The members of the committee were Mailis Reps, Tiina Lokk-Tramberg, Mart Meri, Jaak Allik, Andrus Saare, Paul-Eerik Rummo, Eldar Efendiev, Liisa-Ly Pakosta and Lauri Luik, in addition to the Minister of Justice Andres Anvelt and the advisor to the Ministry's private law department Kärt Nemvalts. Let me briefly refer to the problems we have discussed. The first problem was related to the definition of an orphan work. Indeed, at least one orphan works rightholder is not known, and a careful search must be carried out and documented to find him. This raised the question whether the implementation of this draft would lead to an increase in the membership of memory institutions. I'll give you an example to make it clear. If a work, such as a film, has 200 authors and two of them are unknown, then all authors still need to be properly fixed and carefully searched for these two unknown or lost authors. If everything is described and documented and all authors found or fixed that they are not found, the memory institution will transmit the data from the orphan work to the Ministry of Justice, which will send the data to the pan-European orphan database. Once the information about the orphan work has been published there, the memory institution may make the work legally available on the Internet. In the past, the problem was that all the materials that were considered orphan works were hidden from the public in the archives where they collected dust on the shelves behind closed doors. However, the problem now is that the only way to use orphan works is to make it available, which means only online transmission. Television and cinema cannot show them or use them in any other way. The solution to the orphan works directive is therefore only partial. It is true, as we have identified in the Commission's debate, however, that it is possible, for scientific and educational purposes, to quote, refer to, use as illustrative material or for personal purposes from these works. The problem is also that orphan works can be recognised as publications, films or phonograms, but this does not apply, for example, to photographs that are sad. However, since this is a transposition of the directive, at least initially there was not much room for interpretation for the Member State, and I do not think there will be any room for interpretation. The Commission decided to send draft 697 to the Chamber for first reading by 17 September and to set a deadline of five working days for the submission of amendments, i.e. 24 September. It was decided to appoint Tiina Lokk-Tramberg as rapporteur for the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U284	Any questions? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of draft 697 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 24 September. The first reading is closed and the 12th item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U285	Let's move on to item 13. The first reading of the draft Act amending the Act on Identity Documents and the State Fees Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, begins. Hanno Pevkuri, Minister of the Interior of the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu, please present!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U286	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I am very pleased that this bill has finally reached the big hall. It's a pleasure to introduce you. This bill, as you have already heard, is a draft law amending the Identity Documents Act and the State Fees Act. If you think about what the purpose of this draft is, we want to promote the internationalisation and development of the Estonian economy, education and science. The purpose of the draft is to involve foreigners living abroad as much as possible, without making their contribution conditional on moving to the territory of Estonia or staying in Estonia. Given the wide availability of modern communication facilities, the fact in which a person is permanently or mainly resident does not impose any significant restrictions on his activity. We therefore propose to you that the e-residency institution and regulation be laid down for the e-resident to issue a digital identity card, i.e. digital ID, including the conditions for suspending the validity of the document, repealing it and monitoring it. The bill clearly distinguishes the document issued to the e-resident from the digital identity card of the Estonian citizen or resident. It is also important to create a target rule at the level of the law that describes the expectations that digital ID of the e-resident as a new institute will have to be created. If the practically all public and private affairs of Estonian residents, including the signing of documents, are digital, then foreigners living permanently abroad do not. However, e-resident's digital ID allows an alien to participate in Estonian public and private affairs, regardless of where he is physically present, thereby making economic, scientific and educational activities with international participation more flexible and effective. The need for a paper-based, costly and time-consuming parallel process in dealing with non-resident foreigners also falls. The draft law lays down the conditions for the e-resident to issue, refuse, suspend and revoke digital IDs analogous to those laid down in the Aliens Act. In order to ensure that the digital ID of the e-resident is used in good faith and that legitimate acts are carried out and to provide the issuer with the basis for its assessment, two alternative assumptions for issuing the digital ID of the e-resident are included in the Act. In order to issue the document, the person must have a link with the Estonian state or a legitimate interest in using the e-services of the Estonian state. The draft provides that the facts underlying the issue, refusal and use of digital ID by an electronic resident are not disclosed. Given that data are collected and analysed at the time of the issuance of the digital ID of an e-resident, the disclosure of which to foreign persons may endanger public policy and national security, and that this is a new institute with no previous experience and practice in its implementation, it is justified to provide for a full restriction on access to documents. Undoubtedly, the fact that decisions taken in proceedings are given a minimum of reasons and that the information relating to them is not disclosed does not mean that it is a discretionary decision of the administrative body. The legality of an administrative act can be verified in the course of the appeal procedure and the administrative procedure. The draft also provides for a burden of proof different from the general administrative procedure, according to which the person or e-resident requesting the digital ID of the e-resident is obliged to prove or base the circumstances underlying the digital ID of the e-resident. Given that the person is interested in receiving the digital ID of the e-resident and has the best knowledge of his/her relationship with Estonia, why he/she has an interest in using Estonian e-services or providing digital signatures, the burden of proof is primarily imposed on the applicant himself/herself. One of the basic principles for issuing digital IDs is based on the assumption that documents are issued to the applicant for good faith use and for legitimate acts. It is therefore appropriate to give the Police and Border Guard Board, the Defence Police Board and the Tax and Customs Board the right and obligation to exercise supervision when there is a suspicion that the digital ID of the e-resident has been used or may be used to commit an offence. If measures are not taken to prevent and prevent the misuse of e-resident's digital ID, Estonia may become much more attractive to criminals, which is why these provisions are included in the draft. The identification and verification of the identity of the e-resident shall be carried out by analogy with the provisions of the Aliens Act. The issue of an identity document shall be subject to the identification of the applicant for the document. In addition to traditional identification by means of travel documents of the country of nationality, the Police and Border Guard Board collects and processes biometric data of the person and checks the identity on the basis of other data known to the administration, including data processed in databases. The draft provides that the public or private service provider has the power to restrict or refuse the provision of a service. The service provider may also impose additional requirements for access to the service, including the provision of data and documents or personal appearance at the place where the service provider is established. The public service provider may impose such restrictions in order to ensure the end-use of the digital ID of the e-resident, including the prevention of infringements and the operation or safe use of the service. This was the presentation of the content of the draft. Finally, I will sum it all up by putting it in simple words: we will make Estonia bigger and give foreigners who are interested in editing in Estonia the opportunity to do so and thus to develop the economic, scientific and educational landscape of Estonia. We certainly support the proposal of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to conclude the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U287	Thank you. You have questions too. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U288	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. My ID card and the card of the person who holds a residence permit but holds a Russian passport are different. What does this have to do with anything? The other part of the question is whether this person can apply for an e-resident's digital identity card.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U289	Thank you. If a person has a long-term residence permit, he or she can apply for an ID card. If he or she has an ID card, he or she can use all the services available to the ID card holder. That's why you don't have to start applying for digital ID.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U290	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U291	Thank you. Good waitress! I also have a two-way question. Firstly, as I understand it, this is only the first step and there is not much experience in this area. This is Estonia's initiative and risk. That is where the other part of my question comes from. If so, do you consider what risks might be? We may have heard what the penalties are, but how risky is this for our system?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U292	Thank you. It's just as risky as using our own ID card. The risks are no more than those caused by individuals' own behaviour. Of course, if you give someone your ID card along with PIN-1 and PIN-2, the person in Estonia is also risking that someone may empty his bank account. These security requirements, which are planned for digital ID, are equivalent to the security requirements of the Estonian ID card. As I said, this solution has been made more secure, that if the ID card cannot be removed very easily, because an Estonian identity card has been issued to a person, then in the case of digital ID, we have provided for the possibility to rely on the Aliens Act. This means that we are primarily guided by the kind of regulation that is the case when visas are issued. If there is any doubt, it is possible to revoke the digital ID and this decision does not really have to be justified by the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U293	Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U294	Thank you. Good minister! Is it meant that a digital identity card could be used for material transactions without the need to go to a notary, or is it not intended for that purpose?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U295	Thank you. It's not meant to be.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U296	No further questions. The rapporteur of the Commission is Rein Lang, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U297	Honourable manager! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will give an overview of how the Committee on Constitutional Affairs dealt with this draft. He did it on Tuesday, September 9th, and there wasn't much to talk about. Mr Pevkur felt that this was a very good draft, and the majority of the members of the Commission were completely in agreement with it. The Minister spoke in the Commission what he said here today. So there's no point in repeating it. Kalev Kotkas wondered whether e-residency could pose any other risks to Estonia than possible tax fraud. The Minister said that security risks are exactly the same as for Estonian citizens. Then there was a little debate between me and the Minister on the technical side of the norm, but I got an exhaustive explanation. Jaak Aaviksoo asked whether this principle could apply here, that the refusal to issue an e-resident's identity card must be justified and therefore contested. The Minister confirmed that since this is a very similar procedure as in the case of the visa regime, the reasons for the refusal do not require the Estonian state to tell the applicant. I'd like to hope that's the case. The second question, which was Jaak Aavixol, concerned whether information about e-residents, in fact their register, would be public or confidential. The minister replied that this issue was not dealt with in the draft, but since there is again an analogy with identity cards, such a register will not be made public. Jaak Aaviksoo thought it would be worth thinking about whether it would not be useful for the Estonian state if the register were public. The minister and the speaker thought it was the other way around. So this question remained a little open in the Commission, and it is very likely to come back in preparation for the second reading. But then what was decided? It was first decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 17 September. Secondly, it was decided to propose the termination of the first reading. Thirdly, it was decided to propose a deadline of 10 working days for the submission of amendments, the deadline being 1 October at 5.15 p.m. Fourthly, it was decided to appoint Rein Lang as rapporteur for the Commission. All these decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U298	Any questions? There are no questions. I'm opening negotiations. Kalev Kallemets on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U299	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! This draft is indeed very important in the opinion of the Reform Party, so I will give a small speech. The e-residency of non-citizens is an idea that the Ministry of Justice issued as early as 2008. Since then Estonia has made further progress in developing e-services and cyber defence, and Estonia's influence on e-issue has expanded across Europe. The election of Andrus Ansip as Vice-President of the European Commission's Digital Single Market is both a great recognition of the work done and an opportunity to further expand Estonia's influence by implementing Estonia's excellent e-services throughout Europe. Currently, Estonian e-services are open to Portuguese, Finnish and Belgian ID card holders and Lithuanian mobile ID holders under contracts. But these unique opportunities to do things regardless of their location could also be enjoyed by the Americans, the Japanese, the Germans, and so on. I worked in Estonia for four years as a member of the management board of the Icelandic company and know that foreign owners want to be sure that the management actually does what it says. In the Estonian press, dozens of cases have been reported when the CEOs of a company belonging to foreign owners have deceived bona fide foreign investors, such as Gildi men cheated Estonian investors in Baku. E-residency opportunities to simply check each activity from the register make it very difficult for fraudsters to live and allow owners to change management in the register or to function successfully as a board member using e-services. Companies with foreign participation play a key role in the Estonian economy, accounting for 60% of total exports and 36% of employment. These companies account for nearly 10% of all Estonian 112000 companies. The share of enterprises with more than 20 employees is already a quarter. E-residency thus facilitates the activity of companies that are important to Estonia here and their integration into the economic environment here. One of the important target groups of e-residency is the Estonian people who have migrated from Estonia and their descendants, who are not Estonian citizens. They are estimated at 130,000. The explanatory memorandum to the draft law sets the target of at least 5 000 e-residents by 2020. As we know, Taavi Kotka offered a grand target of 10 million e-residents. True, the bar must be set high, but in addition to a good idea and timing, the quality of its implementation must be exemplary. So if we set the target of 10 million e-residents by 2020, this is a very serious goal that needs to be done well. In implementing terms, I call on the Ministry of the Interior, in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, not only to consider, but also in the next year, with the help of the new Information System of the Police and Border Guard Board, to implement the possibility of applying for digital IDs for the e-resident in foreign offices as well. I think it would be too much to hope that President Barack Obama will come to Estonia the second and third time to apply for and get his digital ID. Much better if he could do it in our embassy in Washington. Please kindly ask our ambassador in the United States and all other ambassadors to work to ensure that our friends abroad become e-residents of Estonia and that the success story of e-Estonia wins attention all over the world! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U300	There are no more requests for negotiation. The Commission's proposal is that the first reading of draft 699 should be completed. There are no other proposals. I will set the deadline for submitting the draft amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 1 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U301	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the State Border Act, the Customs Act and the Police and Border Guard Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. The originator's waitress is Hanno Pevkur, Minister of the Interior. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U302	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Members of the Hääd Riigikogu! This draft has several objectives. All this is about making Estonia's life safer. But let us now go to these changes in more concrete and precise terms. Firstly, it is a fundamental change that the obligation on carriers to transmit passenger data is regulated and that companies engaged in international passenger transport by rail are given the opportunity to transmit passenger data electronically to the Police and Border Guard Board. Currently, the provision of lists of rail passengers is regulated by the Borders Code and the lists are to be submitted on paper. After the entry into force of the Act, a train company which does not have the possibility to transmit the list electronically will continue to be allowed to do so by other appropriate means. Passenger data may be processed by the competent authorities for the purpose of this task with a view to ensuring public order and national security, combating illegal immigration and improving border control. In particular, it is proposed by the railway undertakings themselves, who wish to use existing technical solutions instead of filling out the paper manually. The electronic transmission of the lists would also allow for ex-ante checks to be carried out on passengers, which would speed up border checks. This is certainly an effective measure both in the fight against illegal immigration and, more generally, in ensuring public order and national security. A second amendment or a fundamental part of the draft proposal is the proposal that in the future air carriers will transmit air passenger reservation information (in English equivalent: passenger name record) to the border crossing database, creating the possibility for the law enforcement authority to identify in advance, by electronic data processing, persons who have reasonable grounds for suspecting a very serious crime or terrorism. This issue is currently also being discussed in the European Union. More specifically, already on 2 February 2011, the European Commission sent the PNR Directive to the European Parliament and the Council for discussion and these discussions have come quite far in Europe. If you look at the countries of the European Union, the travel data information system is used by the United Kingdom and certain components are used by Belgium, Sweden, France and Spain. In the wider world, the travel data information system is used by the USA, Australia, Canada and New Zealand. To our knowledge, this has been intended to be introduced by Russia, South Korea, United Arab Emirates, South Africa, Mexico, Brazil and Japan. If you look at the activities of the European Commission, the European Commission has allocated funds to 14 Member States, including Estonia, to implement the PNR system. Thirdly, the rights of customs officials will be extended by granting them the same rights to carry out checks on persons crossing national borders as the police do, i.e. the customs authorities will be given the right to carry out checks on travellers' documents. The amendment will allow better use of the resources at the border crossing points. If only one authority, customs authorities, deals with controls in places of low intensity or low risk, this will speed up border controls. An example is the Narva road border point, where after renovation all control at the terminals of trucks is planned to be handed over to customs. This amendment will allow the police to mobilise more resources to control passenger and pedestrian border crossings. Fourthly, the terms of the border regime will be amended and the Police and Border Guard Board will be granted an additional right to restrict persons to the inland sea or its ice for navigation or other traffic in the event of dangerous weather or ice conditions. At present, the police are known to have the right to restrict movement only on border waters. This change is necessary, in particular, for saving human lives, and the restriction is intended to be introduced in particular during the period of ice degradation in spring. Once again, this change is important for saving human lives in water bodies. This has been confirmed by years of police practice. On this draft, too, we are pleased to support the proposal of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to conclude the first reading of the draft today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U303	Any questions for the initiator of the bill? Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U304	Thank you. Dear Minister, I also read the explanatory memorandum to the draft law and understood that customs officials are given the right to carry out customs controls and other similar checks in parallel with the police. Some time ago, customs officials were already in the state of the police, checking cars and people. Great resentment arose because customs officials were not able to act in this situation. The explanatory memorandum states that the training of customs officials is a prerequisite for the performance of these tasks. At that point in time, was such a practice contrary to the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U305	Thank you. I should examine more precisely the facts that you referred to in your question. In principle, it is also possible to conclude agreements and administrative agreements between national authorities, but I really should review these circumstances. This amendment clearly states that, especially at lower-intensity border crossing points or border crossing points, where border control or identity checks represent a very small proportion of all border operations, we are talking in particular about trucks and this example of Narva, and where customs activities are at the border of the main activity, it is not very reasonable for the country to employ two officials, both the border guard and the customs officer. This work could be done by a customs officer who could check the identity and then go to customs procedures, check the car and the customs rules. It seems to me, at least in retrospect, that it is questionable why this change has not been made in the past. It makes sense that we use resources as rationally as possible in a small country like Estonia. But yes, of course, if this right now also applies to customs officials, then their training at the Academy of Internal Defence will have to be reviewed and certain hours added to the customs specialty will be added to the section on identity and police duties at the border.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U306	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U307	My second question is from the same category. When customs officials receive the same rights as police officers, does a customs officer have to have a name tag in his chest at the border so that he can find out who is addressing him? The way it is now is that when a border crossing is approached, he does not have the opportunity to find out who turned to him.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U308	Thank you. In any case, good administrative practice provides that if a person asks who he is dealing with in the case of a representative of the state authority, the representative of the state authority always says so. There are certain exceptions for special units, but as far as customs procedures are concerned, I do not see any reason why a person should not give his name. The police have a badge in their chest. They're not ashamed of their name. I believe that if it is otherwise regulated, we can cooperate with customs. I don't see any obstacle why a customs officer couldn't identify himself. There's no reason for that, especially when working on the border.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U309	Thank you very much to the initiator of the bill. The rapporteur of the committee is Rein Lang, member of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U310	Good manager! The Constitutional Commission discussed this draft at its regular meeting on 9 September. It was found to be a good bill. Apart from Hanno Pevkur, who spoke the same story as today, Uku Särekanno, Head of Department of the Ministry of the Interior, was present, who has been working on this same PNR mathematics as an attaché in Brussels. This gave him the opportunity to explain how Estonia would be able to use the money that he had been expelled from the Commission if this bill was adopted as a law. Members of the Commission were very pleased about this. In the course of the further debate, it became clear that the IT system that will be set up will, in principle, allow an analogous system, such as PNR, to be used on board a train and on a bus for passengers, which is very positive, because customs formalities at our borders would take less time. All members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs were in agreement with this. Firstly, it was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 17 September; secondly, it was decided to close the first reading today and thirdly to set 10 working days by which amendments would be tabled, meaning that the deadline would be 1 October at 5.15 p.m. Rein Lang, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, was appointed rapporteur. All these decisions were made unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U311	There are no questions for the representative of the Commission. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The Commission's proposal is that the first reading of draft 701 should be completed. I will set the deadline for submitting the draft amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 1 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U312	The first reading of the draft Act amending the Local Government Organisation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. The originator's waitress is Hanno Pevkur, Minister of the Interior. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U313	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy active members of the Riigikogu! In presenting this bill, with your kind permission, I would like to dwell first on the problem of why this bill is in front of you at all. Indeed, there is no clear legal basis in the current Local Government Organisation Act to allow municipalities or the Minister responsible for the sector to create the necessary databases. Thus, local authorities have referred to a public task provided for in a specific law in some areas, or to § 6 (1) of the Local Government Organisation Act, which is known to be very general. It seems to me that this is not correct and it would be reasonable, given the development of our information society, to create a clear legal basis in the Local Government Organisation Act for the creation of databases. This brings us to the objective of the draft, which could be formulated in such a way that the aim of the draft is to create a legal basis for local authorities to create their own databases, which would help them to carry out their statutory tasks more effectively. It also provides a legal basis for the establishment of databases for the Minister in charge of the sector, who is the Minister of the Interior under the current regime. In particular, it would provide state support to local authorities in carrying out their public tasks under the law. In this way, it is possible to help municipalities which themselves do not have the financial capacity to establish their own database. In such a case, the database shall be created by the State and, where appropriate, by several municipalities at the same time. I bring here, for example, the service portal of local governments set up at the Ministry of the Interior or the social services data register established at the Ministry of Social Affairs some time ago, with which all municipalities could interconnect and did not have to create a separate register for social services themselves. The draft does not create additional tasks for local authorities since the databases to be established under this provision are intended for voluntary use by local authorities and the Minister responsible for the sector and local authorities are granted the right to set up databases only for the fulfilment of the public tasks arising from the law. The establishment of supporting databases contributes to the creation of public e-services for local authorities, which in turn creates a favourable environment for paperless services. Of course, this is also in line with the principle set out in the Estonian Information Society Development Plan 2020 and improves the possibility for local residents to be involved in the decision-making processes of local governments through the website. The entry into force of the Bill as a law will lead to faster, more effective and transparent administrative procedures. The establishment of electronic databases is also expected to reduce the burden on residents, as they will no longer have to provide the same data on a number of occasions. The data available to the State is obtained through interfaces from other existing databases. I don't think there's much longer to discuss this short bill. We also support the proposal of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to conclude the first reading of this draft today and to come later to the second and third readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U314	Question to the initiator. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U315	Thank you. I'm asking for interest and for the verbatim. Paragraph 64 states that the Minister of Regional Affairs may, etc. I looked at the Homepage of the Ministry of the Interior and it says that the Ministry of the Interior is run by the Minister of the Interior. Something more specific might be said next time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U316	Thank you for your question. Yeah, I'd love to be more specific about that. The draft was completed before 1 July and then regional governance changed. That's a very good point. Of course, this was also said in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Between the first and second readings, an amendment must be made and the word'regional minister' replaced by'minister responsible for the field'.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U317	No further questions to the originator. The Commission's rapporteur is Tarmo Tamm, Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U318	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. This draft was held at the meeting of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu on Tuesday, 9 September. There was a meaningful debate, the Minister of the Interior presented this draft, as he did today in this Chamber, and asked questions. For example, Rein Lang asked what it was like to establish a database in order to perform a statutory public task. Does the municipality, despite the fact that there is already a national database, still have the possibility to add to its database? The minister replied that this was not the case. In the draft act, a mandate has been given to the Minister, who will state whether the municipality can create a database or not. The rapporteur asked whether the draft would impose additional financial obligations on the local authority. The Minister replied that the regulation on the establishment of databases resulting from the draft did not impose any additional obligations on the municipalities. Databases shall be set up on a voluntary basis. If the municipality wants to create a database, it now has a statutory mandate that it may establish it. Priit Toobal asked whether this draft concerned in any way the database that Tallinn maintains on the validation of passengers in public transport. The Minister replied that he did not comment on this issue because he did not know whether the Data Protection Inspectorate had coordinated this database. Jaak Aaviksoo asked whether the conceptual solution could be such that public registers would be presumed to be interoperable between the state and local authorities. The Minister found that the municipalities decided which registers to keep and the draft did not impose any specific obligation on the municipalities to keep a register. The speaker pointed out that the ideal would be that all registers would be interoperable. Peep Aru asked whether the changes to the draft had been agreed with the local government associations. Jaanus from the Ministry of Põldmaa replied that the local government associations had been negotiated and their wish was that the creation of databases would be voluntary for the municipalities and that they could set up databases at council level. This was a brief summary of the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-17_U319	Any questions for the Commission representative? No, it's not. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The Commission's decision on the 700 draft is that the first reading should be concluded. There are no other proposals. I will set the deadline for submitting the draft amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 1 October. In such a good working spirit, we must be saddened to say that we cannot discuss the next items. We can only do that tomorrow. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 7:30 p.m.
