ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-17_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the Monday session of the ninth working week of the VIIIth plenary session. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. The representative of the Government of the Republic, Mrs. Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-17_U2	Mr President of the Riigikogu! Dear Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching five draft laws today. Firstly, the draft law amending the law implementing the Code of Criminal Procedure. Secondly, the draft law amending the anti-corruption law. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by the Minister of Justice Andres Anvelt when dealing with the two draft laws mentioned above. Thirdly, the draft law amending the Environmental Charges Act. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of the Environment in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Fourthly, the draft law amending the Traffic Act and the State Fees Act. Fifth, the bill to amend the advertising law. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by Urve Palo, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, when dealing with the two draft laws mentioned above. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-17_U3	Let's calm down a little bit, then we can move on. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-17_U4	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of my 16 colleagues, I have an inquiry to report to Minister for Finance Maris Lauri on the need for tax reform. We are pleased to acknowledge the fact that there is now a person in the ministerial office who looks a little wider and more analytically at the Estonian tax system and therefore we are asking Maris Lauri for an understanding. Indrek Neivelt made five concrete proposals in an opinion paper written on national broadcasting at the beginning of November, which, according to him, would, among other things, help to reduce the tax burden on people with lower wages. The need to reduce taxes, especially for small-paid people, has previously been written to Estonia by the OECD, whose reports stress that we have to deal with reducing the tax burden on low-paid people. The debate on the reduction of social tax and the restoration of corporate income tax, as well as the clear increase in the tax-free minimum, is expected by some Estonian entrepreneurs, as well as, of course, people with lower wages. However, no concrete steps can be seen. That our current tax system has not brought us rapid success, Alar Karis, the Auditor General of the Riigikogu, also emphasised last week. In his annual report, he says this: 'Against the background of a small open economy and a laissez faire' economic policy, the danger of becoming more and more inescapable of using the pretext of inevitability and dependence on externalities to justify the lack of ideas, the involuntary and convenientness of reforms, not to change. ' Therefore, we have five specific questions about the Estonian tax system and its meaning in the European context. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-17_U5	Rainer Vakra, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-17_U6	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Committee on the Environment initiates a draft law amending the Act implementing the General Part of the Environmental Code Act. The amendment to the draft law has been made for the sake of legal clarity, so that it is clear which permits are subject to the General Part of the Environmental Code Act. The analogous principle also applies in the application of the Administrative Procedure Act. Thus, Chapter 5 of the General Part of the Environmental Code Act enters into force when one of the special parts of the Act in which the entry into force of that Chapter is provided for enters into force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-17_U7	I have adopted six drafts and one inquiry. They will then be dealt with in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Requesting presence check! There are 88 members of the Riigikogu, missing 13. Now we have to confirm this week's agenda. Please, Siim Kisler!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-17_U8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a question about the agenda. Why do we have only one third reading for Tuesday, while a very long agenda is scheduled for Wednesday again, which clearly drags into the night as it did last week? Why do you think it is appropriate and reasonable to discuss these points at the time of the sitting, rather than at the time scheduled for Tuesday?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-17_U9	The same question arose under the direction of the Riigikogu. We followed the proposals of the committees and how quickly we can prepare the drafts. Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-17_U10	Thank you. Last week's Tuesday work really ended at 11 a.m., but the Wednesday session lasted until 4 a.m. on Thursday morning. Did the Bureau also negotiate with the committees and suggest that they be prepared to discuss their drafts on Tuesday? I do not know about the Committee on Monetary Affairs, but I believe that if we had negotiated, we would have been able to bring our items to Tuesday as well. Once again, did the Bureau negotiate with the committees and propose to discuss some points at the Tuesday meeting?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-17_U11	He did. Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-17_U12	Thank you. That was a very short answer. So I'm going to question that answer for the extension. Didn't any of the Commissions have the capacity to prepare materials one day earlier? When we look at the agenda, we can see that there are even a series of third readings on Wednesday, for which, as we know, materials are not prepared very long and comprehensively. For other readings too, there is probably little difference between discussing one day sooner or later. According to the current plan, no more than a day of processing is foreseen here anyway. After all, the Bureau cannot rely solely on proposals from committees. The committees are not psychic; they do not know when proposing whether anyone else has placed a few points on the same day. How did this planning go so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-17_U13	The Bureau was guided by the simplest and most sensible way to move to other dates those drafts that did not need waitresses. The speeches are natural. But, unfortunately, that was not technically possible. Peter Laurson.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-17_U14	Thank you, good manager. Would it not be wise, then, to make some changes today, such as bringing at least three items on the agenda over to Tuesday, in order not to discuss important legislative proposals at night?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-17_U15	It would not make sense, because then it may happen that the drafts will not reach you in time. Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote on the weekly agenda. Please take a stand and vote. 59 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of approving the agenda, 21 against and no abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-17_U16	Honourable Riigikogu! By decision No 528 of 17 November, the President of the Republic has released Keit Pentus-Rosimitus from office as Minister of the Environment and appointed him Minister of Foreign Affairs. According to § 7 (2) of the Government Act, a minister who has taken an oath of office in a given formation of the Government of the Republic shall not do so again when he is appointed to head another ministry. This, however, does not prevent us from wishing him success. By decision of the President of the Republic, Mati Raidma has been appointed Minister of the Environment and now we are listening to his oath of office. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-17_U17	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! In taking on the duties of a member of the Government of the Republic, I am aware that in this capacity I am responsible for the Republic of Estonia and my conscience. I solemnly swear to remain faithful to the constitutional order of the Republic of Estonia and to devote my strength to securing the well-being and future of the Estonian people. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-17_U18	Our agenda today begins with an inquiry. Members of the Riigikogu Kalev Kallo, Viktor Vassilyev, Siret Kotka, Mikhail Korb, Mailis Reps, Valeri Korb, Eldar Efendiev, Tarmo Tamm and Jüri Ratas have submitted an inquiry to finance minister Maris Lauri. Please, waitress Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-17_U19	Wait a minute, Kalev Kallo! [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-17_U20	In June 2014, Harju County Court found Oleg Belokrylov and his nine accomplices guilty of creating a criminal organisation to deal with large-scale VAT fraud. As a result of VAT fraud, the country lost over EUR 30 million. According to the judgment, the parties concerned must repay less than EUR 7 million from the 30 million mentioned above. Among others, Oleg from Belokrylov companies supplied fuel to Jetoil AS, Olerex AS, Letofin AS, OÜ MK Kamion, OÜ Mark Oil and others. In recent years, Jetoil and Olerex have won tens of millions of euros in public procurement. On the basis of the data published on business day, since the beginning of 2012, Jetoil has been winning public procurements for nearly EUR 95 million. Public procurements won by Olerex during the same period amount to over EUR 20 million. Olerex and Jetoil confirm that they were unaware of Belokrylov's tax fraud. However, Äripäev has written several times that neither company has agreed to disclose its entire supply chain. At the beginning of September this year, the Estonian Oil Association, which brings together several fuel companies, announced that the state will lose about 60 million euros each year due to tax fraud on the fuel market. In order to combat the major fuel market fraudsters, the association proposed to the State to introduce control over the entire supply chain of fuel companies, which would oblige fuel sales companies to disclose all their suppliers. The Estonian Oil Association's proposal is also supported by the Estonian Tax and Customs Board. We therefore have four questions for the Minister. We would like to know whether this proposal is supported by the Ministry of Finance and what it is planning to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-17_U21	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, We submitted our inquiry to Finance Minister Jürgen Ligi on 13 October, but time is flying so fast that in the meantime ministers have changed, and now our questions have been forwarded to the new Minister for Finance, Mrs Maris Lauri.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-17_U22	Minister of Finance Maris Lauri answers the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-17_U23	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I will respond to your inquiry into the reduction of tax fraud in the fuel business. The first question: 'How much do you value the VAT tax hole in the fuel sector at the moment? Is the fuel sector the most problematic sector in VAT collection? ' In 2014, between January and September, the estimated VAT losses for liquid fuel sales amounted to EUR 22.6 million, or on average EUR 2.5 million per month. The losses for the same period in 2013 amounted to EUR 52,9 million, on average EUR 5.9 million per month. This means that significant positive changes have taken place this year compared to last year. Tax losses have been reduced by more effective control by the Tax and Customs Board. Large fraud schemes have been abolished, resulting in an improvement in VAT receipts of EUR 30 million, or 38%. Within seven months, the declared total turnover has fallen to EUR 479 million. Of this, 48%, or EUR 230 million, represents the suspension of 17 problematic companies in the second half of last year. According to the Tax and Customs Board, the country has suffered the highest VAT losses in the wholesale trade in fuel, as fuel is a required and attractive commodity and its consumption is highly taxed. Despite restrictions, fuel trading still tempts fraud. However, other goods are also subject to fraud. One common form of tax fraud is the creation of the right to deduct input tax on other goods, such as sugar, metal structures, oil and cocoa. It reduces the VAT liability arising from the sale of fuel. Companies active in different fields participate in the Fraud Scheme. The second question: 'What concrete measures has the state taken to prevent large-scale tax fraud in the fuel market? Have we reached a situation today where fraudsters have found a threat to the introduction of a mandatory deposit? 'The Tax and Customs Board has improved control measures and changed tactics. As a new measure, fuel sequestration will be implemented. The fraudsters are looking for and finding new opportunities for tax fraud. Recently, the court is being referred for initial legal protection in order to avoid the lodging of a decision on the increased security. Unfortunately, the courts do provide legal protection. Compliance is enhanced by the inevitability and the size of the sentence. Relapse is largely based on impunity. Given the average duration of criminal proceedings for tax fraud and the damage caused to the state, it must be acknowledged that the penalties imposed on tax fraudsters have been disproportionate and have violated the sense of justice of society. The third question: "Do you think that all companies active in the fuel market should disclose their entire supply chain? When could such a requirement enter into force? ' Prevention and detection of tax fraud must be addressed. From 1 November of this year, taxable persons must submit an annex (form KMD INF) together with the VAT return if the total amount of invoices or invoices during the tax period is at least EUR 1000 per transaction partner. With this measure, the Tax and Customs Board will be able to detect and prevent more fraud. KMD INF Annex allows for a faster and more precise definition of persons to be paid attention to. A faster and more accurate selection process for control objects will allow better management of tax risks and more efficient use of available resources. Together with the oil company, the concept of a secure delivery time is discussed, which is intended for operators who wish to rule out possible fraud in their transactions. Some fuel sellers want to fight fraud and buy fuel from an honest supply chain. In cooperation with the Estonian Oil Association and the Estonian Tax and Customs Board, the possibility of making real time available to tax authorities reports on the sale of warehouses and liquid fuel is discussed. In this way, the supply chain would be visible in real time from the extraction of fuel to the final bills. Question 4: How can we morally assess the fact that public procurement is won by companies with VAT fraud in their supply chain? ' Contracting authorities can and must make use of legal means to win public procurement and to perform public contracts by companies that do not have VAT fraud in their supply chain. It must be acknowledged that it is very difficult, but still possible, to control the whole supply chain for the performance of the contract. The contracting authority may lay down additional terms and conditions for the contract. For example, every time the contract is performed by a subcontractor, the company must coordinate it with the contracting authority. The contracting authority shall also confirm the change of subcontractor. The contracting authority may refrain from using sub-contractors involved in tax fraud where it provides for an obligation in the contract to provide details of the subcontractors. The contracting authority can also determine the basis for the termination of the contract, such as a tax debt or a tax fraud. Contracting authorities can consider establishing terms and conditions for subcontracting on the basis of the sector. This ensures the possibility of crowding out sub-contractors from tax fraudsters. In order to combat tax fraud through public procurement, the Public Procurement Act will help. The terms of the contract, the verification of their performance and the supervision of the owner are equally important. The contracting authority must itself ensure that the performance of the contract and the performers are effectively controlled. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-17_U24	Questions. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-17_U25	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. As I understand it, a certain hope has been put on 'automatic control' and some other measures of more than EUR 1000. But your answer was such a statement that the penalties imposed on tax fraud are disproportionate and offend society's sense of justice. Does the Ministry of Finance, along with colleagues from the government, intend to come up with a proposal to amend the law so that penalties are imposed according to what has been done? In that case, the penalties would not be disproportionate.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-17_U26	Penalties are imposed by a court in Estonia and we do not have the right to comment on them. However, the existing measures and the additional measures that I have introduced to you will enable us to better capture tax fraudsters. The strongest and most effective effect is when tax fraudsters know that they may be caught at some point.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-17_U27	Aivar Chef.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-17_U28	Good manager! Good minister! As we know, next spring, in May, the discount on special fuel will disappear and excise duty will rise by 40%. What do you think will happen in the fuel market next spring and autumn? There are two options. First of all, people pick up as much labelled oil as possible in their tanks, the tax authorities go to check and fine them. Another option is that homeowners enter into agreements with transport companies and start playing with VAT, for example, they pay in cash, because maybe then they don't have to pay VAT. Price increases are so high that they have a significant impact on heating costs for all people. Do you think the increase in excise duty was the right decision? Would it not have been possible for domestic consumers to have been distinguished from the specially labelled fuel used for heating their home and the excise duty would have been lower?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-17_U29	George Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-17_U30	The Estonian Tax Administration complies with the laws of the Estonian state and tries to catch tax fraudsters. So far, they've been very successful in this. I believe that they will be able to do just as well in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-17_U31	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Madam Minister! When you looked at the cases presented in the inquiry and read our questions, how do you assess whether the Estonian state did everything possible to reduce the tax pit of the state budget or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-17_U32	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-17_U33	In my opinion, the IRS was very good and their activities were very effective. I have examined this case thoroughly, and I believe that the activities of the tax administration have been very successful.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-17_U34	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Taxpayers are good at paying taxes, and it is easy to control when laws are easy to understand, easily enforceable and easily controlled. My question is about abolishing the excise duty advantage on special labelled fuel for residential buildings and also for certain municipal buildings, namely its implementation. The Ministry of Finance submitted the draft and the Riigikogu adopted a debate on it. After the end of the concession in May next year, if there are more than a hundred litres of fuel left, it must be sold back. My question is, to whom it is sold and at what price. Is this some kind of public buying-in? If less than a hundred liters remain, will it be measured and the difference will have to be paid? Is it possible to come up with a more complex, confusing, more difficult and verifiable implementing act? Do not be laconic, describe how it is applied in practical life!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-17_U35	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-17_U36	Since the question of questioning does not concern me, I do not have enough material prepared. But if you want, we'll find an answer to that.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-17_U37	Thank you. Madam Minister! I believe you have statistics on how many fuel business cases have been launched in recent years and how many of them have passed the trial.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-17_U38	I don't have that kind of information right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-17_U39	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-17_U40	Sure.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-17_U41	Will the Ministry be able to answer the MP in writing?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-17_U42	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Minister, are you sure that raising taxes will reduce tax fraud?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-17_U43	Tax fraud is reduced by people's law-abiding behaviour, as well as by the fact that tax fraudsters know that they are caught and punished.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-17_U44	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-17_U45	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. I'm asking about people's sense of justice and fair competition. It can be said that thanks to the good work of the tax administration, EUR 30 million of VAT fraud money was discovered. However, the state did not get it because only 7 million of it was recovered. You're one of the cabinet ministers. Have you spoken to the Minister of Justice? How is it possible for you to be so leniently punished?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-17_U46	There are no further questions for the Minister. I'm opening negotiations. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-17_U47	The penalties are known to be imposed by the court. I guess they found it useful.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-17_U48	No, not on that subject. I shall then take the floor on the next item.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-17_U49	Is there a wish to make a statement on the question of inquiry?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-17_U50	Oh, that's different.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-17_U51	No.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-17_U52	Thank you. Just in case, let's ask Heimar Lenk if he wants a word on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-17_U53	We're in the middle of negotiations on an inquiry.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-17_U54	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to talk a little bit about dental care and day politics.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-17_U55	If not, you have to press the button. Is this the end of the negotiations? I assume that the Minister will no longer wish to speak. I will conclude this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-17_U56	And now there's a free microphone where I'm asking you to sign up after the hammer hit. Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-17_U57	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office, for your say. I have a whole package of papers in my hand today, although I usually like to talk in my head. But in order to be specific, I brought with me papers that were all printed out of our news portals today. As we know, Elron, our company running the train, raised its prices today by 7 to 12%. The question arises as to what has happened to this company, the need to raise prices, and why it does so badly with its duties. I'm sure most of us have already read the news about Elron's trains in the last few days. The headlines like "Catastroph Türil," "The train was late," "The train was crowded" are full of Internet portals. I'm going to use one of today's comments where a lost passenger turns to one of the Internet portals in distress and says he wants to tell a story about how he was touched by the troubles of Elron's train last night. 'When I came to the Baltic station, my train wasn't yet, but there was a Türi train, and I found out my train was late for 42 minutes. This train of mine was standing behind another train, but most people just didn't see it, and there was no information on the board either. For example, there was a train to Tallinn in Tallinn, which was supposed to leave in my opinion 17.35, then a letter came: "Late is late, leaves 18.05." People didn't stand on the platform and go in to warm themselves up. Then suddenly the letter "Late" disappeared, the train drove ahead and set off. Most of the passengers missed the train, waiting on the platform with big eyes. It's usually Lelle's train transfer. On the train, we found out from the customer attendant that we were receiving a bus because the train left Lelle Pärnu already drove away. We got off in Lelle (about 50 people), but there was no bus. We waited 30 minutes, 40 minutes, but there was no train, and there was no bus. A man who knew the train's client service called and found out where the bus was. Then we learned that the bus driver went the wrong way, or Rapla, and did not come. People panicked. We were standing in the middle of the cold woods with no one. We went to the station building, waited another hour or so until we found out that the bus had an accident and the bus driver was killed. Then we caught some of our acquaintances who came, drove 40 kilometers in their car, and picked us up. ' I don't know where they were taken because I didn't start counting. This is the service of our representative train company. A woman writes it was horrible. This happens to be the case with Elron's company over the last few years, you might recall dozens. Now Elron wants the same one who can barely serve people, raising their fares by 12%. Let's ask why. My question is justified because there was still information that Elron's company's number of trips increased by 50% in the last six months. Imagine, all of a sudden there are half the riders! Elron's company's profit was the second in Estonia after Eesti Energia 68.6 million euros last year. Why do we need to increase prices if the profit is EUR 68.6 million? Andrus Ossip, who runs this company, says he wants to open new lines and stuff. I know, I've learned in school that the right and successful companies are developing by getting money from increasing their turnover to build new routes and so on. Elron's company behaves directly on the contrary, he has received huge profits and very many passengers, but raises prices. The question arises as to whether Elron's leadership has the right people and whether Andrus Ossip is the right person in this position. Does our Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications ever do these things right? Thanks for everything.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-17_U58	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-17_U59	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to talk about dental compensation, even though we all know it's long overdue. As soon as that little money was cut, people's teeth began to get worse. It is now interesting to see that the closer the Riigikogu elections are, the more the coalition parties are talking about the need to compensate for dental care. There is a problem, but the subject is indeed very hypocritical, because there will be nothing more than next year. During the summer we had a large public hearing, where all kinds of problems were at stake, various options were considered, and the level of compensation was discussed. The press also reflected this issue. People had the impression that the current government was working on the matter and that something would be done immediately. But no one knows what it's really like and what it's like with people's teeth. The Ministry of Social Affairs said they didn't do any research. It's the same with the Health Insurance Fund. The Dentists' Association has said that they know the people who go to treatment, but they don't have an overview of the general situation. I think we have more or less information about who we are moving around a lot. We see as we walk around Estonia that this picture is very sad. I imagine, of course, if you're a single mother and you only get a little over 300 euros a month, then you'll have nothing left but to buy your kid some food or clothes. Healing your teeth keeps delaying. When you're out of work, you're looking at not quite starving. Of course, under such circumstances, people cannot afford dental care. I would like to stress to you that in the early years of the Republic of Estonia we had dental care free of charge, as was the case in the Russian era. Then, at the turn of the century, in 2000 or around it, 50% of the treatment was compensated and 50% had to be paid. Then the situation suddenly changed and the state's help for working age disappeared. The medical allowance was granted for several years only 150 kroons, a very small amount. When the Centre Party was in power, this amount was raised to 300 kroons, and it did help a little. But in 2009, this 300-kroon compensation was also quite abolished. We have been putting forward a lot of drafts since then to compensate people for dental care, even a little bit, but they have all been voted out. Unfortunately, there was also a vote on the proposal that an older person could use the money left over three years from the prosthetic allowance for dental care. However, this is currently a subject of debate that should be addressed. At the same time, our Central Party bill has been in since spring. The first reading has even been completed, but now it's like it's hidden and stopped deep. I asked you today when we were gonna take it out. They laughed at it and said it was next year. In fact, it should be in force as early as January 2015, as our proposal was. So that's the actual situation right now. Whether they want to give the money or not, you can well read about it. We are also told that this money is so small, and for the EUR 19 that it used to be, there was nothing. Of course you didn't. But at least it was prophylactic. A man could sit in a dentist's chair once and be told what was wrong with him. Maybe even got a little job done. The election's closing. I want to tell you that at the moment, the impression is that there will be an increase in the medical allowance next year. I just met the head of the health insurance fund, Tanel Ross, who said straight out that nothing will change next year, there will be no medical allowance. He doesn't know what to say about the year after next. So here's the reality. People's teeth are in bad shape. The OECD said a few years ago that 70% of the poor people in Estonia cannot go to a doctor because the treatment is expensive. We consider this problem to be serious. It is essential that the state compensates for dental care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-17_U60	There's no more calls. Today's trial is over. I'll see you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 15.41 p.m.
