ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Journalists! We will begin the session of the 8th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday of the 12th working week. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. There's no call. We're gonna do a presence check. 86 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 15.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U2	Let us begin the processing of today's agenda items. The first point is the third reading of the draft law amending the Public Health Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. So we can go to the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 756 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. The draft law amending the Public Health Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, has been adopted as 756 law. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U3	Let's move on. The second item is the third reading of the draft Act amending the VAT Act and the VAT Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Is there a desire to negotiate? Please, representatives of the political groups. You don't want to negotiate. I will put draft 793 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. The draft Act amending the VAT Act and the VAT Act was adopted by the Government of the Republic as 793 law. The second item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U4	Let's go to the third item. The third reading of Bill 794 of the Tax Exchange Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? I see head shakes. Okay, no, I don't. I will put draft 794 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. In favour of 76 members of the Riigikogu, there are no respondents or abstentions. Bill 794 of the Tax Exchange Act initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law. The third item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U5	Let's move on to item number four. The third reading of the draft Act amending the Environmental Charges Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. I will put draft 778 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. by 69 members of the Riigikogu, with 15 votes against and 1 abstention. The draft Act amending the Environmental Charges Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 778 has been adopted as a law. The fourth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U6	Let's move on to item five. The third reading of the Act amending the Act on the Implementation of the General Part of the Environmental Code Act initiated by the Committee on the Environment begins. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No, I don't. I will put draft 781 to the final vote. I ask you to take a stand and vote. In favour of 86 members of the Riigikogu, there are no respondents or abstentions. Draft Act 781 amending the Act on the Implementation of the General Part of the Environmental Code Act initiated by the Environment Committee has been adopted as a law. The fifth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U7	Good fellows, I'm asking for your help now! Now it's gonna take a little quiet, because there's gonna be a language exercise. Aivar Rosenberg, Aivar Sõerdi, Andre Sepa, Arto Aasa, Etti Kagarov, Heljo Pikhofi, Igor Gräzini, Imre Sooääre, Indrek Saare, Jaak Alliku, Jaanus Tamkivi, Jüri Jaansoni, Jüri Morozov, Kalev Kallemets, Kalev Kotkase, Kalev Lillo, Kalle Jents, Kalle Palling, Kalvi Kõütli, Karel Rüütli, Kristen Michali, Laine Randjärve, Lauri Luige, Maimu Bergi, Margus Hanson, Marianne Mikko, Mart Meri, Meelis Mälberg, Paul-Eerik Rummo, Peerik Aru, Rait Maruste, Rein Randver, Tarmo Männi, Terje Trei, Tiina Lokk-Trambergi, Valin Kõivado and Vala's new laws on the Constitutional elections elections of the Riigs of the Riigikogu. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu, none other than the Chairman of the Constitutional Committee Rait Maruste! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U8	Thank you for your attention. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Bill 703, the Act amending the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia to reduce the election age of the local government council elections, initiated by 41 members of the Riigikogu. The first reading took place on 16 September 2014 and was closed. The deadline for submitting amendments was set at one month, with a deadline of 16 October. No amendments were received at that time. Therefore, colleagues, I cannot describe to you how the Commission discussed the amendments. However, I would like to mention to you, for information, the comment made by my colleague, Priit Toobal, that if we are successful in reducing the election age, we must also make an adjustment in the local government council election law. This is the right focus, but the work on this draft must be completed first and the elections reduced, as we have planned, after that the next steps will come. The Commission proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 18 December, i.e. today (this was a unanimous decision), and we have a proposal to conclude the second reading (by 5 and 2 members of the Commission against, with no abstentions). Unlike the usual procedure for dealing with drafts, the law currently provides for a deadline for the submission of amendments for third reading. This could, in the Commission's view, be at 4 p.m. on 5 January 2015 (this proposal was adopted unanimously). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U9	Good waitress, you have questions. Marko Pomerants, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U10	Thanks! This is a report by the Commission, but a few days ago you, a good colleague, said that another matter concerning the reform of the state, the reduction in the number of members of the Riigikogu, is a very difficult undertaking, requires a change in the constitution and is therefore almost impossible. What is the difference between these two things: the legislative amendment being discussed today and, for example, the reduction in the number of members of the Riigikogu in the framework of the state reform by amending the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U11	Thank you. The short answer is that this was not discussed by the Commission. But it's a matter of decision. If we find that it is politically sensible and practical to reduce the number of members of the Riigikogu, that it adds something to democracy in Estonia, then it can be done. Personally, I don't think so.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U12	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U13	Thank you. Good waitress! You are one of the initiators of this bill. How much have you talked to the young people affected by this amendment to the Constitution? How many of them have considered this to be a good idea, and how many have thought that there is no point in doing so?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U14	I've spoken to those young people who have approached me. I haven't kept records, and I can't answer how many times I've been talking to exactly. I do have the address of the Estonian Youth Association. They have found that a reduction in the selection age is necessary. I assume that the opinion of the Estonian Youth Association reflects what young people want and want. In addition, I have had meetings with young people here and there, and young people have basically taken a supportive position. I have never met fierce opposition or demands that this bill be withdrawn or not moved forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U15	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? It's what you want. I'm opening negotiations. Please to the Riigikogu speech chair Margus Tsahkna!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U16	Good manager, more time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U17	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U18	I understand you're all waiting for Santa Claus, but this is an important subject, we're changing the constitution, and I want to say a few of my thoughts. In the same way, it is very nice that the Riigikogu is engaged in expanding the principles of representative democracy, given the very younger people. So far, it has been possible to participate in municipal elections since the age of 18, and now it also gives younger people the right to take part in them. But I don't think that's enough. This is a seeming flirt with a younger electoral group that does not bring about real changes in the fundamental principles of democracy. As the studies show, these younger people may not yet have understood that they are being given more rights. On the other hand, this change concerns only the municipal elections. If we really want to involve young people, not only by allowing them to have a say at local level, but also by involving them in democratic decision-making at national level, then we should review the right to vote more widely. I want to talk to you about this idea that has also sounded in this Chamber during the discussions on this draft. In particular, I would like to talk to you about family elections, or this measure, which would significantly extend the principles of a representative democratic electoral system. All political parties talk before and after the elections about the fact that we need to pay much more attention to those people who have our future on their shoulders, perhaps families with children and those who have more children. I am pleased that the Reform Party has also made one election promise to better manage families with three or more children. But we should look at the wider protection of the interests of families with children and, therefore, it would be appropriate to bring the idea of family elections to the debate during this draft procedure. After all, the idea of family elections is that every citizen of the Republic of Estonia has the right to participate in Riigikogu elections and local elections from the moment of birth. The question arises as to whether we are going to give children the right to vote and whether children are going to choose from birth. No. The point of the family election is that until the child becomes an adult, that voting right is exercised by the parent in the election. This gives much more weight to families with children. This would be an important extension of the principles of representative democracy. Let's make a comparison. With the draft we are currently discussing, we are bringing in 1.9% of voters at local government level, the real impact on election results is essentially non-existent. It is such a declarative matter of flirting, but it is not really encouraged to make fundamental changes. In the case of family elections, 260000 new electoral rights would be added, i.e. 28%. These are citizens of the Republic of Estonia who have not been able to exercise their right to vote, they would be added to this process. I can already see a bit of arrogance here, or also a panic, that what happens to the election results, how the current political system should behave, which is more directed specifically at those people who already have the right to vote. You are right, indeed, then more and more attention must be paid to precisely those families where children are growing. This should also be done politically. Secondly, we have now kept these 28% of our own citizens away from the right to have a say in political decisions. Changing it is the idea of a family election. It has been asked how we can give a parent several votes, for example, because it is not right; it is not in keeping with the current principle. In fact, these same parents are now making all other legal decisions for their children. They are responsible for the welfare of children, for their education, for a safe home, and for coping with themselves. That is why they must also have greater weight in political choices, precisely in the sense of representative democracy, because people are directly involved in political decision-making in elections. As I say on this draft, I also represent Liisa Pakosta and many other people's views here, that this is one step in the direction of extending the principles of democracy in relation to elections, but that is not enough. My personal view is that at some point in this Chamber we need to discuss this again seriously, without humor and a condescending smile, how to significantly increase the political weight of families with children in elections. The 260000 additional voters are children and those who exercise the right to vote for them, or parents. They need to be given greater political weight and not compared to others, but, in fact, we are simply equalising, bringing all citizens of the Republic of Estonia to decision-making in representative democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U19	Thank you. I would like the Riigikogu's speech chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U20	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I read a practical course for students at a university, and in return, I have the opportunity to apply for them sometimes. I've done them a poll on the downsizing of the election age. I report that I interviewed 27 young people aged 20 to 23 years. 25 of them replied that they did not see the need to reduce the age limit, and 2 abstained. The question why they think so was answered by those people who still remember the time when they were 16 years old, that, first, it is very easy to influence a young person and, second, that young people at that age do not have any political rights unless they have a political broiler and it is strange to force them to participate in political processes. They had a question about how I feel about why I think this age is being reduced. Knowing you, ladies and gentlemen, I made a prediction. First, state schools, or institutions, controlled by the Ministry of Education or, let's say, the government. Secondly, electronic voting. Almost all young people 16. until the age of 18, each city is beautifully together in one, two or three upper secondary schools. It is so nice to give them a civic education class in October and to explain who is good, who is bad, and what is electronic voting, and then arrange a beautiful collective voting school. A colleague backs me up. Yeah, I like that idea. I think this is the background: the desire to find additional resources for the government coalition before the local elections. This is exactly where a government coalition usually loses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U21	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu speech chair Kalvi Tough!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U22	Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, It has to be said that the pillars of our elections have indeed lasted for a few decades, but let us admit that the perceptions of democracy, governance and the role of the citizen have changed considerably during this period. The overall increase in educational attainment and the rapid development of the information society, which has led to the simple and rapid availability of information, especially among young people, have made it possible to discuss the decision-making stage and, as we see today, also realistic. I dare say that we have already brought a large number of young people to the table on local issues. In my opinion, it is time to give young people the right to decide when discussing local issues. But really, this is the first step on this long road. The right to vote from the age of 16 could also be granted in elections to the Riigikogu and the Euro Parliament. These things that we have brought young people more into talking about local issues are the election of student governments and student representatives, as well as youth councils, which are legalised and operate in nearly a third of the municipalities. Believe me, through this activity, many young people have become patriots of their own home. In the last participative cafe in Võrumaa, Joanna Kurvits, head of the Rõuge Youth Council, said a tear in the corner of the eye sparking that because she has worked very hard at the Rõuge Youth Council, she is staring even at the bus that is heading towards Rõuge in Tartu and wants to return to her fine home. Higher educational institutions are usually located in attraction centres. Voting in municipal elections before moving to the attraction centre gives young people a certain sense of responsibility for developing their own home. The creation of such coherence increases the possibility that these young people will return to their homes later or participate in the development of their municipality. However, it must be said that young people are also involved in national initiatives. We know that here in Toompea, children's Parliament and the Youth Parliament are gathering and shadow elections have been held repeatedly. We are, in my opinion, given the knowledge of politics within the two institutions. One of them is school. The national curriculum of the Estonian comprehensive school has created a strong base frame for dealing with electoral topics, but it has to be said that at a theoretical level. In particular, the textbook knowledge should be included in the capsule. I do not know whether there is an unwillingness or fear of discussing real events and problems in the learning process and of involving practitioners as experts, in the current context then politicians. We all know that when the school talks about internal security, it's called a savior or a police officer, and when it comes to defense, it's called a defence force or a defence ally. But when it comes to politics, you often do not dare to invite a politician to talk to the school, be it a local or a national politician. The Social Democrats are confident that our programme position to lower the elections to local governments is well-founded and society is ripe for this. Believe me, it does not only give much to young people, but it also gives much to society. We all know that our society will be ageing and by 2020 the proportion of retirement age in the population will exceed the proportion of young people with 7.7%. The need to balance the influence of age groups in the electorate is thus increasing. I've heard of the fear that lowering the age of choice would lead to a rooster ball in the political landscape. But election simulations show that young people's party preferences are similar to those of the current electorate, the popularity of extremist parties or candidates is not expected to increase among young people. Good friends! I think, I believe, and I know that young people expect this law. I think, believe and know that society needs this law. And I think, I believe, and I know that the Social Democrats support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U23	Thank you. I request the speech chair of the Riigikogu Marko Pomerants! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U24	Ladies and gentlemen, Good President! Good front speaker! I think that many young people will be surprised by the law they claim to expect, but I am also sure that such young people really do exist who can expect this law. Two weeks ago, the elections of a large parish council were held for the first time in the municipality of Lääne-Saaremaa. And what did we see? 40% of the adults who currently have the right to vote decided to participate in these elections. Look at the untapped potential of the current electorate. That's one. Secondly, there is no need to talk about some kind of upperball or imbalance, or to worry about the fact that if we lower the election age to 16 years of age, there will be some huge structural shifts. Listen, the average life expectancy is increasing, maybe in ten years it'll be three or four years longer than it is now. So, where are we going to go with this downing? Can we finally get to the age of 12? That, too, is possible. I agree with Kalvi Tõng that all school leaders should allow real politicians to talk politics into schools. Then it may be that, apart from two students in the class knowing who the Prime Minister's wife is, they can also name the Prime Minister who is leading the government of the Republic of Estonia. So this thing isn't so rosy, but let's live, see what can come out of it all. I'm telling you, it doesn't change our world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U25	The speech chair of the Riigikogu, Tarmo Tamme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U26	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I am amazed at the way in which the Estonian Constitution is changed. When the President's election or the reduction of the number of members of the Riigikogu has been discussed here, the amendment of the Constitution has allegedly been so complex and time-consuming that it is not possible to do so in essence. Now, however, there is a very simple reason: we want to give young children 16 years of age the right to vote and we are therefore going to change the constitution. I don't understand! There is no reason why the Constitution should be amended. Young people can be involved in everyday life and political life in other ways and methods. There are youth councils, youth councils and youth parliament. I ask who is preventing young people from having a say in political life and from saying what they have to say. It makes me really sad that there's really no research into reducing the selection age. Only Austria will implement it from European countries. It is also experimentally done in Germany and has been done in Norway, but it has not found a wide range of sounds. These studies and arguments, which have been mentioned, are, in my opinion, not arguments. I'll get you a few quotes. Urve Läänemets, member of the board of the Estonian Society Teachers' Association, has said that Estonian society and school are not prepared enough to place elections on 16 years of age. Mari Suurväli, member of the board of the Estonian Society Teachers' Association, has said that she is basically not in favour of granting 16-year-olds the right to vote, because then they should also be granted the right to drive and other rights. He has pointed out that a 16-year-old cannot register a business, but then you can choose. He asks that if a person is mature, why should he not have other rights? Speaking from the students' point of view, I can say that a few days ago, a study by one of my seniors came to my e-mail, where it was found that young people did not support this principle. In January next year, a senior student from Järvamaa Upper Secondary School will come to me, who will also do a survey to analyse this subject in depth. I don't know where the rush is and what the main objective is. If the Constitution is being amended now, you politicians will get a vote from a young man, but you will offer him nothing in return. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U27	Thank you. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu Kalev Kallemetsa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U28	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to highlight the historical argument and some parallels. Parliamentary democracy was a systematic start in Britain, in customs England. At the time, only quite wealthy men had the right to vote. Less than 10% of male citizens had a real right to vote. Income Census was lowered over the years and by 1840 21% of men had the right to vote. Then those who gave the right to vote came to the opinion that men who were not so wealthy and were not so large landowners could also choose the British Lower House. Later, between 1840 and 1900, the vote was lowered to 60% of men by 1896. During this same period, debates on women's electoral rights became topical, especially in the country of the birth of liberal democracy in Britain. The representatives of this movement were called sufragettes. In the early 1900's, Winston Churchill was one of those who was the object of the constant attacks on the Sufragettes. Finally, after World War I, Britain reached the point that women were given the right to vote. Then, in the general elections, I don't know exactly what the right to vote was once in local elections for women and men aged 21 or over. What is now universal in Europe is that elections, at least in parliamentary elections, begin at the age of 18. The application rights are different. There are several members of the European Union where elections to local elections begin at the age of 16. In terms of history, there is no suggestion of a somewhat abnormal reduction in local elections. The legitimate question of discussion is only whether we are mature for it. There were certainly arguments against the educated men who, centuries ago, gave the right to vote to those who were not so wealthy or educated. There were certainly arguments against men when they discussed the right to vote for women, and there is certainly a great deal of work to be done at the moment to ensure that women are actively involved in politics and more candidates for elections. This is still a topical issue in our society. Similarly, it must be a topical issue for young people to participate actively in society so that they understand their role in society. We are thus shaping an inclusive and stronger society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U29	Thank you. Riigikogu speech chair Rait Maruse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U30	Ladies and gentlemen, The elections are approaching, I see. Speakers have used the remote control to also highlight the various views that may not be most directly related to this issue. All I want to say is that, as a liberal, as well as my party, we still believe that we should involve a young generation in social life before we have done so. It only enriches our social life. But now some answers to the specific speakers. Family elections first. Great idea, but we must bear in mind that our constitution provides for the principle of uniformity in elections. How is this guaranteed if one person has, for example, three or five votes due to the number of children, but the person who does not have children has only one vote? Let's think about it. Go on. Mr Stalnukhin expressed that we were forcing young people to choose. It's possible the Central Party is forcing someone to choose, I don't know, but we're talking about the right to vote here. Finally, I say to Mr Tammele that, of course, other rights must also be reviewed and regulated, but the first step we are discussing today is that of course. Once we have managed to reduce the active election age, the following things will come to the table: So let's move one step at a time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U31	Thank you. I would now like to ask Lauri Luige step by step for the Riigikogu's speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U32	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Good kids! I have a really good feeling that the topic that we have dealt with in various circles over the years in youth debates and debates has finally reached the Chamber of the Riigikogu and today also the second reading. I dare say that lowering the age of election is the most debated issue in recent years on issues concerning young people. All these debates have reached a broad conclusion that young people need to be more involved in social processes, and one possible solution is precisely to lower local elections to 16 years of age. In my opinion, this is accompanied by quite a number of positive factors. For example, 24,000 young people will have the opportunity to participate in the elections, just as they want to see local life in the future. The education of young people and their interest in democratic processes are certainly important. Also responsibility, its importance and additional management information for young people. Of course, it is also important to make a habit for young people. We know that once you do something, it becomes a habit. If young people leave their hometown after high school, such as university, then their communication with their hometown may not be maintained as well and if they have not had the experience of voting by then, this tradition may not occur at all in the future. The key word in this process is, in my opinion, integration. We know that non-citizens can also vote in local elections. Better involvement of young people from non-citizens is very important. We discussed the integration plan "Integrating Estonia 2020" some time ago, where one of the important keywords was better integration of young people into Estonian society. The sad fact is, of course, that our society is aging and therefore inevitably dominated by topics that specifically concern the older generation. In my opinion, a better involvement of young people would increasingly focus on youth issues. This is also an important plus. I'm gonna tell you a little bit about the dangers. In debates, where I have participated over the years, it has been pointed out that politics and electoral campaigns may increasingly take place in schools. I would remind you that there are actually many young people in upper secondary school today. My experience tells me that this situation isn't so bad, quite a lot depends on how the school manager can maintain order and what the school rules are. So, in my opinion, it is not quite right to use this argument. Of course, making political propaganda at school is, in my opinion, also deplorable. It is important to mention that Estonia is not a pioneer when it deals with the topic of reducing youth involvement or choice age. There are a number of positive examples of this in Austria, Germany, Switzerland, Norway, where I do not know whether the young people who have been awarded the project are entitled to take part in the elections on a project basis or on a permanent basis. The reduction in the election age is, of course, related to topics that need to be dealt with in parallel, such as the upgrading of the curriculum, which is constantly on the agenda anyway, as life changes and develops. Of course, the classes in social education and civic education must be reviewed and improved on the basis of how best to explain to young people why it is important to choose what responsibility is, etc. In summary, I would like to thank all the Members of Parliament, led by Kristen Michal and Rait Marus, who have been very lucky to deal with this issue. I would like to thank all the young people who have participated in the debates and have contributed. I think that Estonia is ripe to legitimise the lowering of the electoral age in local elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U33	Thank you. Urmas Reinsalu speech chair of the Riigikogu, please! Eight minutes, of course.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U34	Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment of the Constitution is a serious matter and my starting point for this idea has been positive. I think that giving young people additional voting rights is generally a step in the right direction. But I do not want to agree with the hypocritical attitudes expressed by many people in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and expressed in the Chamber today. Firstly, Rait Maruste argued that the idea of family elections was contrary to the principle of uniformity enshrined in the Constitution. No, it's not like that. The principle of uniformity means very clearly that equal treatment is treated equally. This principle goes against the logic of one of the restrictive elements of this draft. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs was also unable to give a relevant answer to the question raised on this point by the initiator of the draft. I want to make a concession: I think that we are setting a poor precedent in the culture of constitutional change if we are to take these initiatives not by looking for a joint section between parties, but by trying to do so narrowly on the initiative of the Government Union. I think this is not the best forward-looking practice. But we want to give and we are ready to give, and young people are ready to take additional political responsibility regarding the highest power of representative democracy on election day, that is, the right to participate in the election of representatives. But they are only able to do so in local matters. Mr Tõud spoke about the change in the general understanding of democracy over 20 years, basically the development of the concept of citizenship, democracy, elections. My question is why, in this case, we will not apply this amendment to the parliamentary elections in a uniform manner and to the European Parliament elections every five years. The argument of demographic balance, as well as the willingness to improve civic education, to increase participation and inclusion, all these elements should be taken into account. In response to my question in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rait Maruste explained that it has not been examined whether young people are competent enough to make decisions on national issues. He explained that local things were simpler, that young people understood them. For example, one politician says that the playground will be there, another politician says that the playground will be there. Now, young people pick up that point, they dare to vote, go and choose that or that politician. I think this is an extremely simplistic approach. We know that we have Tallinn, we have other major municipalities, where these topics are much wider. If you think that the voting rights of young people, through some kind of playgrounds or skateparks, will simply become an imposition on voters, then young people, I think, would rather have a negative experience of involving and empowering them. Speaking of hypocrisy, I would also say that I believe that some opposing views have also sounded in the chair from the authors of the draft Constitutional Amendment Act. Kallemets said that political propaganda should not have a place in school. There can be no place in the political propaganda, that would be bad! Kalvi Tough asked why we were afraid of politics at school. He gave the example that it is understandable to everyone that when it comes to internal security, the school policeman is called, and when it comes to national defence, the school officer is called. Of course, these things need to be better linked at school. I think that, by the way, what we imagine as a normal culture is not a secondary issue in this debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Is it a push job (in English) or propaganda (in foreign words), but what is this good political practice that we should accept in local governments as well and what should schoolkeepers accept? I think it's important to be clear. Surely this ambiguity is being abused. We know that in several municipalities, school leaders have given leaflets to young schoolchildren in their classes so that young people know who to vote for. These are different cultures. But the main question is what we think is normal. Yes, party politics and party propaganda have already snuck into military units. Some people think it's normal, some people condemn it. The amendment of the Constitution is a serious matter. But I think that when we talk about a culture of constitutional change, the central place where we need a constitutional mandate is a state reform. I see that our ability to carry out administrative reform in Estonia and to build a more affordable state organisation for the taxpayer also requires changes in the constitution. This requires a mandate to change the constitution, which cannot be achieved through the votes of the relative majority of the parliament on the issues we are dealing with today, so much easier to find political support, but also requires a referendum in order to establish a constitutional basis in Estonia and have a clear mandate for state reform. So much for the most important culture of constitutional change. I hope that in the discussions between second and third readings we will come back to these issues in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and we will look together for answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U35	Thank you. More requests for speech... are! It seems to me that the button was pressed by Imre Sooäär, who wishes to take the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U36	Thank you. Some time ago, the Youth Parliament and its committees, together in this very Chamber, came to the joint conclusion that discrimination is actually taking place in our country and now in this house. In fact, they are not allowed to enjoy the privileges of the Riigikogu, such as the visits of guests of honour, now the visit of Santa Claus. We could think about how the Youth Parliament could be able to participate.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U37	Thank you. Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U38	Mr President! It seems to me that I, too, have enough speaking time. I will be very brief. Looks like we're a little bit of a substitute for this lower selection time. Its impact is limited, and the problems of inclusion in society are, in my opinion, elsewhere. But this is certainly not as scary a substitute as a bomb being thrown into the debate on state reform, starting to talk about reducing Parliament's membership. I cannot, frankly, understand this argument that state reform necessarily needs to change the constitution. I think it needs political will. With regard to this draft, it is certainly much easier to implement than the model of family elections. It is perfectly clear and understandable. I do not see very much the dangers that some colleagues have pointed out, which may result from this, either. Once again, however, its impact is limited and it gives a bit of an impression of substitution and distraction from other issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U39	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading. As no amendments have been received, we will not discuss them. I will set the deadline of 5 January 2015 at 4 p.m. for the submission of draft amendments to draft 703. The second reading is closed and the sixth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U40	Dear colleagues, I have the honour to ask the President of the Riigikogu, Eiki Nestor, and the Christmas man of the Riigikogu. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U41	Dear Santa! I'm sure you know that Social Democrats have been very creative people since the beginning of time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U42	Hello, hello! Oh, yeah, sit down, good kids, nicely down! All right! Let me see you right now. Look, George's missing, that's good. Oh, look! Hello, George!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U43	I'll give you some water. [[Pour a glass of water for Santa.]] Do you want five or eight minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U44	I'd like five and then eight minutes, then another bottle, then one more box, and then we'll see. Oh, how many of you are there! It is clear that this day is important, and many of the ambassadors are not many, but many people have arrived in the hall for the first time this year. It's a good thing it's already lit! You have discussed very much whether or not to give young people the right to choose. I just heard. I would also suggest that, even if we stopped choosing the age of 16 at all, people could focus on something else in the future. Maybe that's what I'd do. Well, older people have been picking pretty hard, but nothing really worked out. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Then let the younger ones try up to 16 years of age. I've been thinking that two or three-year-olds could still go picking, because if a person can choose a good, better bag in a store, for example, he can think of other things. The older generation has actually demonstrated that they simply cannot cope with the election. Ask anyone, they'll be dissatisfied. Then let the children choose. That's my proposal. But if I look at it at all this year, I have to say, you guys have been really busy. What can I remember? Well, the law of partnership. It's really good that we're together and alive after all this. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] If I'm wondering what else I remember, I'll have to say, a work capacity reform. It is with these abilities that, if you think about it, our people in Estonia need to improve many abilities. There's no flight capacity at all. Then there's the resting ability. A lot of people haven't heard what this rest is. I've been to families that haven't seen my dad in a year. Now it's more frequent that you don't see your mother anymore. And there's a situation soon where I'm coming, but there's no more kids, because everyone's in a hurry, there's a lot of circles to go to, and there's a lot of school to learn. So, more and more often, the room is beautifully made for Christmas, the steaks are on the table, but there's no one home. I'm gonna drop the presents and see that last year's presents are still intact because it's been too fast all along. So there's work. Of course ethics... which he was now, the code, yes! Look, the code of ethics! I used to go along with it all the time. Some people say that ethics is at all such a thing that the work and ethics of the Riigikogu in one time and space does not coincide. A lot of people have said that. I don't really agree with that. If there was a code of ethics, and if there was at least one point, someone would definitely find a way to break it. However, if the code of ethics were to be a perfectly clean page, it would give the person who turns the code of ethics open and looks at it a very wide margin of interpretation as to how it is ethical. He can see for himself what he can't be wrong about. Oh, yeah! So these would be my proposals for a nice improvement in the life of Estonia. The integrity of the ambassador too, that was a good thing! At last, some of the things that are happening in Estonia will also come into contact with the ambassador. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] So far, it felt like it didn't. People tell me about it. One said at the bus station that it seems that there's nothing to do with the people, that he's always talking and picking, but nothing's gonna change. I understand that this immunity was taken from all of you. Yeah, yeah! How does it feel now, is it scarier? [[In the Laughing Hall.]] You're laughing right now, but this guy, I see, is pretty serious. All right, then there's a reason. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] I've got a bouquet in my bag instead of a bouquet... I'm still dangerous, don't be sad! But I don't have a bouquet, I have a taser, and I can use it as well as a nice, better share. One more thing I want to pass on before I give my gifts is that of cross-country running shoes. If unexpectedly there is a need to deviate from the normal trajectory, speed up and re-start immediately before the finish, for example, or do something unexpected to the co-competitor, then everything here is a very good base, contagious. Who can I give them to? I think I'll leave them here. Where do the Rules of Procedure allow them to be left? [[In the Laughing Hall.]] I'm gonna leave them on the edge right now. You can ask the office next year if you think it's necessary. I'll check the bag again and find one interesting thing after another. There's always a stocking bag on top of everything, but... Ah! [[He takes gingerbread out of his bag.]] Do you think we'll be hiding behind Jüri, Laine and Eik's names... No, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. All right, George, Laine and Liki! Let's give them a round of applause for being able to manage this story nicely this whole year. [[Let's hear it.]] Please, Laine, please! You look almost like me as the only person right now. [[L. Randjärv is dressed in red and white.]] Laine, I've got gingerbread for you, and, yeah, with applause, I'll hand it over, it's handmade. Good baby! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U45	Thank you so much for Santa!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U46	There you go! Now I'm gonna call George. It's the same for George, but I've just written here a different way for you to understand. Please, George! [[Let's hear it.]] And Eiki. Who's gonna see Eik? Nobody's got a round of applause, too. [[Let's hear it.]] Very good, strength to you, Eiki! You don't take shoes? [[In the Laughing Hall.]] The next contestant is known, but let's see where we're going. Good friends, first I have a nice bag here. I mean, the way we do things is, we raise our hands, we show you if there's any verses in the head. Nothing, of course. Oh, one raised his hand. It's good to always be ready. Group of the Social Democratic Party. Indrek will be the first to pick up his package. See, he's always got something to give me! Or was I insane? Come on, tell me!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U47	A poem for everything.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U48	It's a poem, and we'll see. Step in here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U49	That's what I'm gonna take with me! Now it stays here (the Santa puts the picture over the Head of the Riigikogu) and it fits nicely. But I guess we'll talk a little bit about the conditions for a Christmas man to be put in front of a soccer cart. But what's in the gift bag? Gift card for the Social Democratic Party, special program for the House Museum of Tammsaare from Anton Hansen's life. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] I'm sure a lot of people will be there for the first time. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] You've been keeping a good eye on the cost of the average food basket all the time, so here's the average food basket: a little bit more cheese, you could have more cheese, and what else? It says "smooth sausage" backwards. Such a nice basket and a little liking too. Good luck and strength! Make sure you go to the house museum together!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U50	We have a picture for you, too, in memory of the good old days. [[The picture contains the logo of Santa Claus and the Social Democratic Party. Let's hear it. Laugh in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U51	In the creative economy, Christmas is a Christmas year, among other things, for profitable Christmas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U52	Yeah, that's right! What was the first thing they did? [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U53	That's what I want to remember a little bit, because Christmas is the time when family comes together, reminds me of the good old days and looks to the future. So one part of that time is remembering the good old days. Well, you're a very creative person, aren't you? One could say that the non-formal international president of the creative industries. We know that it is customary for the presidents to stop their party membership while their mandate is in force. But to remind you of the good times, our little Maimu has written you a poem.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U54	Wow!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U55	"Welcome to you, great Santa Claus, You know, social democracy is old. There's every national island in our ranks since birth. Either Vilde, Tuglas or Tammsaare. But I'm sure you will remember, dear christmas lady. That you're the oldest Social Democrat. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Your red coat is a long way off. Your shoes have spread all over the world. That's how we welcome the Christmas table here tonight. as an old man, a friend, a good comrade!" [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U56	There you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U57	Actually, sweet christmas man, I'm gonna take that poster off now because it doesn't fit me.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U58	Got it! You see how easy this is! You're gonna come in here and then you're gonna walk out of here like a dog! [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Well, let's be careful. I, on the other hand, now call here the representative of the Reform Party, who will certainly have his own position, because Santa was first in the Reform Party. You see, they're going out of the hall! I'll get out of the way. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U59	Maybe we can clap?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U60	Yeah, yeah, easy, easy!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U61	Next word. Now! [[Wearing a pantomime.]] Come on, let's Once again, it's an exclamation mark, and in the meantime, it's the letters. Living stars, body language. Next word. Now! [[Wearing a pantomime.]] Right! ARRANGEMENTS. Very good! Now our last word. (Cry from the floor: Holidays!)
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U62	The Reform Party is, as always, a team that does things together, supports one another and thinks about everyone. We have a prepared band called Living Stars today.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U63	You can clap! [[Let's hear it.]] So I can see my band better, I'll come forward here. Santa, come closer here because, frankly, you should look at this thing. Maybe you'll even sit here?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U64	All right! Doesn't fit, that means... [[Laughter in the hall. Santa's taking his picture away from the manager.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U65	All right! Whose place is this?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U66	Well, anybody. Aivar Sõerdi's place is here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U67	Well, look, I'd love to sit down. Hi, Tiina! [[Santa welcomes T. Lock-Tramberg.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U68	Now the hall has an assignment. It's not like we're here alone doing things. Your task is to read out what words and wishes are being forwarded to you right now. Our first word is this. Now! [[The members of the Reform Party in the Dwarf hats are playing pantomime, trying to visualize certain stars.]] We're trying to read it. Peace! It's an exclamation mark, so pay attention, it's an exclamation mark. (L.Randjärv points to T.Kõiv, who holds a long red umbrella in his hand.) Did you understand that this is PEACE? Everyone says, "Peace."
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U69	Don't get ahead of yourself! Easy, easy! Now! [[Wearing a pantomime.]] Look down too, our e-star is sitting on the ground here. Look this way! (Cry from the floor: Merry Christmas!) ARRANGEMENT TO THE CHILD! That's right. Thank you. Now, in conclusion, we want to say the following words to everyone (all performers in the choir): good old year's end! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U70	Hello, sweet christmas lady!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U71	Let's see if it's "holy." It may not be every time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U72	Thank you. I thought it was great, because otherwise it has often been that the Reform Party has sung. Lucky for us this time. Who's gonna stay here with the representatives? Igor, come here. There's a really nice card in there, I couldn't get it open, I tried. Ah, now it's fire! Here's a map. It's a map of the world. [[Santa Claus is showing a black sheet of paper all over the place.]] It's black, and if you start tinkering, the country can pull countries from here by country. This is because when we talk about getting to the five richest countries, this is where the country we're already richer than we are can be pulled away. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] There's a little bit of a picking around here in Africa or somewhere around Kamchatka. [[Let's hear it.]] Let's roll it up, you can put it back nicely in this quail. I have one more thing, I'll see if I can find it, and I'll give it to you. I'm a little blind, it's not like it's any more. Everyone else's gifts are there. (Santa walks by her head in a bag, the hall gives advice.) Are you still there? [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Got it! Nicely done, I'll put it here. [[There's a phone ringing.]] Who's singing all this time? It's such a great game, "Guys." Here all scandals must be laundered and finally, doing as much damage as possible to the opponents themselves as the highest-rated party, which can then be well practiced again. Here you go! [[Let's hear it.]] I'll take it from here and see if I have a mouth. [[Santa's drinking water.]] Thanks to George! Let's keep looking. I'd like to call the IRL boys and girls, you haven't been here today. I see Liisa's been knitting all along, but now she's done. That's good. All right, Urmas, come on, step up!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U73	Today, I'm gonna do it shorter than usual. The IRL family has a poem for all of us: "Every year comes a different kind of power and shines a spruce, Sometimes sunbathings, sometimes skis glide on the track. We wanted a white Christmas. Unfortunately, no permission was granted. A drop of rain falls from the sky like a Russian ruble. There's a squirrel on the tree branch, chewing on a cookie, that's shame! A squirrel could leap outside, a squirrel could chew a cone. In the corner of the hall, look at the wonder, one rose is red. But the rhinoceros outside, it's kind of crazy. It's really important, and it's only important in this story, That together, good Santa Claus, we could ask together, so that the Russian bear will never reach Estonia, Good God, protect Estonia, tie your jaws on the beast!" Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U74	Hello, Santa! How's your health?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U75	Hello, hello! [[U. Reinsalu walks into the speaker's desk and supports his hands on the remote. Laughter in the hall. U. Reinsalu makes a soothing move with his hand.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U76	There you go. That's the story. I hope that's how it's gonna work. [[Let's hear it.]] Urmas, very good, I'm now taking a gift from the gift bag for you and your good fellow nobles. This time I have chosen first, you see, "Estonian game." It's an adventure game, and it's still for you to do well with this administrative reform thing. It's such a big dice to play. It's kind of a dice with no numbers on it. It's just like now: everyone's sitting around the table, rolling, but there's no way it's going any further. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] You can keep it calm in the same way, so the windows are blurry. [[Let's hear it.]] One more thing, we just talked about a Russian bear. IRL also has the objective of achieving independence from Russian gas. Here's a jar of sauerkraut, then every person at home can produce the required amount of gas. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Power! [[Let's hear it.]] I'm looking now. Got it. The Centre Party. That's great! Hello, hello!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U77	This presentation is in poetry form: "Riding Santa's sleighs-reed along the cold capital road, But we don't have snow in Tallinn, tram tracks slippery what ugly. The sledge sledges, the thighs and the ATVs, They're watered by the Christmas rains. Fortunately, urban transport is free of charge, you've come here to worry us. Over the year, you're back. Listen to our report. In May, when nature had a spring ball, The euro elections were being held in a row. Most of them lost. Someone won. Some of them went to europarlamento. Andrus Ansip left an empty throne. A new coalition was established. There was a little revolution. Government Social Security. Changed the color of the opposition, Now he's got a patriotic tone. Who took the furniture at Stenbock's house? The Prime Minister's chair landed in the garment. Got a new pair of socks in that case. 'Cause Ämaris has a rough wind. The law came like sawboards. still through the coalition. Businessmen took their breath, when you received the gift of the Riigikogu. You went to car compensation, the declarations have been received, that there is no money on the part of the undertaking, What politicians would do would hurt. The most important law was passed, There was legalization of gender-neutral goodness. Now Santa's in a fun mood, A snowman's date brings home. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] The government shared ministerial chairs, A lot of wanters, more furniture needed. Facials roared on the mountain's edge, There was a familiar voice from a stranger's chair. They took in new faces, some have resigned, it would be quiet under the window, But he kept pushing on. The state money was divided and counted, The little cents fell off. Some were left for schoolchildren" food, Not to get fat, for God's sake! So you don't have to support a funeral, The ambassadors were paid for the roof. After several days of hard work went through the budget for the night. The old year is coming to an end. New cones in the new year's tree. In March, we have new challenges, We'll spend the electoral doors. The slingshots took the classics to the party. The bike is marching through every door. The suit controls the fleet of airplanes. Edgar, that's what makes Reagan horny. There's a war ahead of us on the election front. In the end, the people will give us a grade. Don't give us any crap. You better help save our reputation! Send the leaves to the elves, who are well-known journalists. May our memoirs be published, from which we get the fees."
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U78	Do you want me to sit down right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U79	Could be worse. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U80	I was afraid you'd forgotten the Centre Party, but we're still here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U81	Actually, I forgot! [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U82	I'll be sitting for three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U83	You can sit down, but I'll ask for three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U84	I'll remind you then. I have a report on what has been done here in the Riigikogu during the year.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U85	Very well, there's the first document in my archive. Now I see there's a little present. Since the Centre Party is very fond of signs and also of progressive income tax, we have such a mark. [[Santa Claus shows a sign that represents people standing on stairs and showing their empty pockets. Laughter in the hall.]] You can set up and look at which region the progressive income tax will apply.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U86	Got it. [[Let's hear it.]] Thank you. (V. Vassilev extends the text of his presentation to Santa Claus.)
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U87	This is our report.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U88	This is your report, and what do I do with it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U89	Archive.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U90	I would, but I can't. I have two wallets in my pocket.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U91	If you're a low-paid person, the only way to pull your pockets is to pull out that much more and more until it's out. It can be put graphicly and nicely up in the area where it will apply. I have more presents. The Dwarves said it was necessary to transfer such supplies to the Central Party, just in case. [[Santa gives V. Vassilyev the glue cans.]] People have been running lately, and now they can be glued up. It's Moment, it can be glued really hard, and it's more of a pool glue, it's for when someone with a jackass runs away.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U92	Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U93	That you don't screw up, yeah. These things, too. The Centre Party has been giving me so much pleasure and fun all year. Thank you. Power! [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U94	Thank you. We promise to do more in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U95	More! Excellent! That's the hard hours I've had to laugh at.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U96	Good luck to you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U97	Needy, needy, needy! I'll tell you one more thing: there are nice people under the window. Good windows, how's your office? Is there anyone left? Or is the movement already on? It's still coming. Very good! [[V. Vassilyev: A beautiful sign, it could be up here all the time.]] Here you go, Andres boy. I'm gonna take that archive document a little bit off here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U98	Greetings for strength! It's not like Lembitu and I have an appointment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U99	But that's the most beautiful thing in politics.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U100	Lembit's gonna hand it over first. Two years ago, Santa brought seeds, onion seeds, and other seeds to window beds or Democrats. Inara put them on the ground, and this is the kind of gemue that's been made from here. [[L. Kaljuvee gives Santa a little red bag.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U101	Is it growing?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U102	It was growing, and it got a really good guy.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U103	Don't tell me I thought I wouldn't, but it did grow. Or did you just put these seeds in a jar and want me to eat them?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U104	No, it's all onions and celery, and it's all there.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U105	A thousand thanks, a thousand thanks!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U106	Since there's been a lot of talk here today, I thought I'd sing a song.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U107	Very good!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U108	The song is kind of naughty. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Today, there was talk of the adoption of the law on sex and cohabitation. Then I thought I hadn't been sung today, and that's why I don't read the poem. I like the classic, I like the operets. I thought I'd sing the world-famous operetta "Silva" song "Today I'd like to sing," or I'd sing the third and fourth verses today. There's a certain naughty moment when you look it in the eye. [[L. Kaljuvee sings:]] "Let's make a nest for ourselves like a swallowbird, You're good to me, I only love you. But if you cheat on me, I'll go, I'll travel to the south then, to the second nest. In the world of many gentle women, you can love others, But there's one I still love. Only one thing I want more than anything, "who I adore and love hot and hot." [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U109	Here you go. Is this about this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U110	Excellent!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U111	How are you, Santa? A life together, I mean.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U112	Now, that was such a beautiful moment that my whole life ran before my eyes. And it was a lot. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U113	I sang it when there could be 0.8 on the sea.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U114	That's what I thought some zeros were, but eight! There are presents, too. Here the elves have thought...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U115	Good Santa Claus! I'll make sure they don't let me in.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U116	Oh, yeah!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U117	They won't let me at first reading, and they won't let me at third reading, and then they have to tell Mr. Nestor to mention my name, and sometimes they will. I've prepared a poem too. May I read it to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U118	This does not concern this bill. "I think you got bail and roofies in your bag. And there's a lot of immunity there, to hide behind the thick walls, When society downstairs raises its head. You know, get me a better group. And bring the bill from Mr. Maruse's drawer, That there might be power and a line to gain better power and will!" Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U119	Thank you. So it's only about getting a group?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U120	Good Santa Claus! This is where the men have spoken, and I'll say a few words, if you'll let me.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U121	Well, I was hoping so.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U122	I've got a proposition we're gonna play. I'm gonna read you a poem, and you're gonna tell me who the author is. I'll read it in Russian and then translate it. I know that only speaking in Estonian is allowed here, so I hope that my poem is not in conflict with the code of ethics.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U123	We don't have that either.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U124	So, poem: "Semnadtsat, tridsat, sorok vosem, sto sorok, desjac; nol odin, sto dvadtsatšest, sto tridtsat vosem, sto sorok tri, pjatsot odin'. Who do you think the author is?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U125	Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U126	No, it's not. This is Pushkin: "Seventeen, Thirty, Forty-eight. One hundred and forty. 10, zero one, One hundred and twenty-six. One hundred and thirty-eight. One hundred and forty-three. Five hundred one." Look! But I'm gonna read another one, and you're gonna tell me who wrote it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U127	But what was Pushkin's problem at the time? [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U128	No, Pushkin didn't have any trouble. But look, we're in the digital age, we're all in numbers and numbers, right? Look, you're intelligent, you've been reminded that you have the roots of the Sotsdem. You have to understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U129	Must have reminded me a lot of that. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U130	Here we go: "Dva, sorok shest, tridtsat vosem, odin, stošestnadtsat, cheetahs, dvadtsat, pyatnadzat, cheetahs, dvadtsat odin, cheetahs, nol, "Semnadtsat." Well, who do you think the author is?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U131	That wasn't the last poem?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U132	No, it was another poem.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U133	Then there's gotta be sparks, I guess. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U134	It was Majakovsky: "Two, Forty-six. Thirty-eight. one, One hundred and sixteen, Fourteen, Twenty, Fifteen, Fourteen, Twenty-one, Fourteen, zero, Seventeen."
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U135	I've heard Russian poems with words. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U136	Of course, there are words. But it's a modern form of Russian poetry. Merry Christmas to you and all of us! To have a lot of these numbers and everything would be great next year, so there'll be all kinds of numbers for everyone!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U137	I also wish to then numbers in the language: sixteen, six, thirty, two hundred and seventy, fifteen, six, ninety-three fractions of forty-five, seventy-eight fractions of nineteen, twenty-seven and eight, three hundred and forty-five, though nine. [[laughter in the hall]] (Applause. Santa's handing the gift to O.T. )
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U138	Oh, that's great!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U139	Excellent! Let's leave that microphone here right now. You actually have different political groups and work in committees, even now. There's still a good basket full of things. Can we ask the Riigikogu female choir to perform for us? I know that not only this year, but all years of hard work have been done to offer us today a moody four-hour concert, or at least part of it. Let's get ready to listen to something beautiful and nice. You can make an encouraging round of applause now. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U140	It is a union of women in the Riigikogu. Women can work together regardless of their party worldview, party and colors. We've got our colors. It turns out that absolutely all women can play the instrument, everyone has their own instrument with them. So here's a story, I suggest you listen to the words, and if you know how, you can hum: "We're comin' with the gangs all of Estonia, To Santa tonight There could be a show here. We believe that for sure Let's cheer you up. although in a suit, tie aren't wearing us. We're without it. clever and good, We have caring hearts And consider the head. Who's lucky to have a public cart this varied work And I think everyone knows that, how exciting the night of the sitting is. We're girls here. from all over Estonia and represent wisely both the continent and the island. You, Santa, forget it. Now don't bouquet it. and pass it to the children of Estonia One great Christmas present!"
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U141	Thank you. You see, it was nice listening! [[M. Reps is taking a rodeo to Santa Claus.]] And here, when I look nicely, we're already out of green stuff, almost the leaves. What is this plant?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U142	Tree.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-18_U143	A tree? Yeah, yeah, what kind of tree is that? [[Cry from the floor: birchwood.]] Birch, yeah. (Cry from the floor: Birch.) Good, I'll put it in here, and if it gets hungry, I'll take it from here. (Santa sticks a rod between her belt.) Thank you. Be happy! Every time I think about what I'm coming here... (Cry out of the hall: is there a gift?) All right, I still couldn't keep it. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] I've got a nice whole basket of gingerbread. Will you, Marianne, take these for yourself? Here's some nice gingerbreads for everybody, with the musical keys on it. There's also a can of "Soolan pay gap in its juice." That's always part of it. Share, please, spread out! Have a nice year! It was very nice to listen to good music! With this gender pay gap, it does not go down until men's wages are compulsorily reduced and then fairly equaled. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] I don't think anyone's gonna mind. Dear people! For many of you, this may be one of the last gatherings. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] To whom exactly, it will be clear in spring. For those who are no longer here, I thank you. You'll know if future generations will say thank you. I hope so. Good luck and strength! One more thing. I even felt a little windy in the back of my head, because there are so many beautiful things the parties are offering that the Christmas man has nothing left to do. Save something for me, too. My business is maybe not being on the ground with exactly two legs. That stay on the ground will still be yours. I wish that next year, both the next Riigikogu and the people who are now here, all the good plans would succeed, but the stupid plans would be frustrated from the very beginning, so that they would not cause more damage to people and the state. I'm gonna get my presents now, leave my cross-country running shoes here and meet you. I took a break, but I can clap. [[Let's hear it.]] Good luck, everybody. I'll see you next year. Take care, George! Kadri, good luck to you too! Bye! Closure of the sitting at 11.36 a.m.
