ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Prime Minister and Ministers. Let's start today's briefing. Please, let's do the presence check! 39 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 62 are missing. The following members of government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Defence Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice Hanno Pevkur. Ladies and gentlemen, since eight issues have been registered today, the number of issues registered on the ground is two. So, quick fingers!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U2	The first question is from my colleague, Kadri Samson, to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U3	Thank you. Prime Minister! Although your party associates have started a tax debate on how to tax banks voluntarily, my question concerns what has been written into the law in your government coalition, which is a promise to reduce personal income tax by 1% from 1 January next year. It's been advertised that everyone wins from this tax reduction, but unfortunately, it's not entirely true. Perhaps you will give an introduction to how much of this election promise will benefit from a 1% reduction in income tax for a person working 40 hours a week and 160 hours a month, but earning a minimum wage. How much will one such statistical person earn the average wage in Estonia win and how much will it be won next year in the position of your successor Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U4	Thank you. Everyone wins 1%, except for those who do not pay income tax.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U5	Please, Mr Kadri Simson, first question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U6	Thank you. For the sake of the stenogram, I will answer my own question. One per cent of the reduction in the income tax rate is won by 1 euro and 97 cents per month by the recipient of the minimum wage, 7 euro and 49 cents by the average wage recipient and 48 euros by the Prime Minister, which is several times more than the minimum wage recipient receives during the year. Why has the government you manage opted for a reduction in labour taxes, which, as you can see, will further increase the inequality of people's net incomes? At the same time, it would be possible to leave this money in the hands of people in such a way as to increase the tax-free income, from which all employees would win equally.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U7	Thank you. These things have gone hand in hand, i.e. increasing the tax-free minimum and lowering the tax rate. In general, the direction of this government, as well as of previous governments, has been the same as that of the vast majority of Europe: labour taxes, reductions in direct taxes. Taxes have been increased in Europe mostly when it comes to consumption, or especially when it comes to pollution. 'The polluter pays' has been the dominant principle in Europe for at least the last decade and this principle has been consistently followed in Estonia as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U8	Please, Mr Simson, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U9	Thank you, Prime Minister. You said that the reduction in the income tax rate has still gone hand in hand with raising the tax-free minimum. However, the tax-free minimum has not been raised since 2006, when it was 66.7% of the minimum wage. If it does not rise next year, the income tax-free minimum will be only 36.9% of the minimum wage. How much will the tax-free minimum rise next year if it goes hand in hand with a reduction in income tax?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U10	Thank you. Hard to say, this is clear in the process of drawing up the state budget strategy, but not even then once and for all. This is finally clear when the state budget is adopted in the Riigikogu. Let us be reminded that, in times of economic crisis, we did not reduce the income tax rate either.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U11	Now two issues registered on the spot. Please, Mr Peep Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U12	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! The questioner here was concerned about 1% of the fate of what it does and what it is bad. In fact, the Reform Party's initiative has reduced total income tax by 6%, taking into account the reduction planned for next year. Good Prime Minister, what has this 6% reduction in income tax granted to individuals and businesses, the Estonian state as a whole? Perhaps you can sum it up briefly.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U13	Thank you. In short, you don't add that up. Of course, the tax burden on each taxpayer has decreased and the competitiveness of the Estonian state has increased. Because we have not collected so much tax on the Treasury, we have managed to prevent overheating during the economic boom and thus give the economy a new boost. At the same time, in the last ten years, the disparities in the distribution of revenues have decreased most rapidly in the European Union. True, in recent years, since the crisis, the imbalance in the distribution of income has increased a little again, but the sum of the sum of the differences in the distribution of income in relation to ten years has decreased the most in Estonia compared to the other Member States of the European Union. This tax change has increased Estonia's competitiveness and it has been won by every person in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U14	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U15	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! When it comes to income tax, of course, I am asking about progressive income tax. Today, almost every day, a company in the newspapers comes up with the idea that it is high time to put it in place. If we look, there is a proportionate, or uniform, tax on income in some other Slavic countries and, for example, in countries such as Albania, Hong Kong, Bulgaria, Romania and Mongolia. All developed countries have graduated income tax. Luxembourg, for example, has 17 tax levels, Finland, Italy, Belgium five tax levels, Portugal eight. Germany, the Netherlands, Spain and Austria have four levels. There are four stages in America and there were 13 in the first Republic of Estonia. Even at the beginning of the present Republic of Estonia, we had four stages until 1993; in the meantime, the highest level was even 50%. Why, then, do we not want to introduce progressive income tax and make the country more coherent?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U16	I believe that the state is united when taxpayers understand how the tax system works. There are different traditions in different countries, different understandings of what is good and what is not best. A clear, transparent and uniform tax system is the best for people in Estonia. The tax issue has repeatedly been one of the key issues in the elections, and voters have always been in favour of maintaining a uniform tax system when giving their preference. It is important for us that people know how the tax system works. If people understand this, if they trust this system, they will also pay their taxes honestly. We are faced with tax holes, problems of tax evasion, but I dare to assure you that the problems in Estonia are much smaller than in many other European countries. Our tax system works, it is effective, and according to the OECD, the efficiency of tax collection among OECD Member States is the highest in Estonia. We could ask why that is. Whether our tax authorities are smarter, better than everyone else, or whether our tax system has any influence.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U17	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U18	The next question is from my colleague, Helmen Hunt, to Mr Pevkur, Minister of Justice. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U19	Thank you, Madam President. Minister of Justice! In yesterday's Estonian Päevaleht opinion, you have supported the view that the livelihood fund is a socialist phenomenon that will immediately be used in the interests of lazy people. However, you say that the child will always be the loser, and believe me, it is the lazy ones who have children who need this livelihood. My question is what is your solution to the problem of 12000 maintenance claims in enforcement proceedings today. How long will this procedure take? These kids need that money every day.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U20	Thank you. If you come to my article yesterday, it is worth reading carefully what you quoted. I referred to one of Leon Glikman's statements there. So it was a borrowed quote, as it's nicely written in the paper. When it comes to maintenance requirements, I am pleased that the Riigikogu also has a very lively interest in maintenance and maintenance support systems. As a member of the Social Affairs Committee, you certainly attended the open session of the Social Affairs Committee, where the people of the Ministry of Justice also spoke about possible solutions. Various solutions have been proposed. First of all, I'm going to settle this for a living fund. Yeah, I'm telling you straight, I don't support a living fund. It is not a sensible idea that parents who pay their taxes properly and raise their children properly will jointly pay off debts arising from raising children for parents who fail to fulfil their obligations. This is not fair to honest and decent parents. Secondly, if we look at what these measures might be, we have, for example, proposed the possibility of restricting the rights granted by the State. One example could be the right to restrict a driving licence. There are, of course, a number of differences, but they were certainly also discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs, and the format here does not allow us to go through everything. In the same way, last week the Prime Minister had the thought of discussing the possibilities of second pillar payments. This is supported by the Ministry of Justice. There are a number of other ideas, and if you have an additional question, I hope I can continue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U21	Please, Mr Hunter, the first supplementary question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U22	Thank you! Dear Minister, I always read the articles very carefully, and that is why, when I asked the question, I said that you have considered it right to support the principle expressed by Mr Glikman. Your coalition partner, IRL, has allegedly been wearing a living allowance fund for five years, and has also expressed the frustration and sadness that it has not been included in the coalition agreement. The Social Democrats issued a draft this week on the creation of a livelihood fund. If you haven't studied this bill yet, you've probably misunderstood it. This does not mean that good parents continue to pay for these ravens for long periods of time. The question is who will become a person in relation to the debtor, either another parent who claims to pay the debt or the state to which the debt is owed. The state will pay temporarily from this fund and do everything it can to get the money back there. However, I ask how long this problem will last, when do you think it will be solved?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U23	Thank you. If we talk about the number 12,000 you mentioned and you ask for time, then logically, the total number of maintenance claims will increase. The statistics on the enforcement of maintenance claims began in the Estonian country since 2001. If we take all the logical time series and consider that the enforcement procedure in maintenance matters lasts until the child reaches the age of age or until the age of 21 when he or she goes to school, then according to a shorter scenario, the enforcement statistics are likely to be completed until 2019, more than from there if we are also talking about children or children studying in vocational schools who will continue to study after 18 years of age. Maintenance claims are long claims, maintenance is paid until the child reaches the age of age. Consequently, it is not logical to assume that the number of maintenance claims will decrease significantly. Nor does the Court rule that a maintenance claim is a one-off payment. No, maintenance is a monthly payment and consequently the number of people in the database is increasing. If you look at how many cases the court deals with each year, there are 600 cases in the middle of the trial. Anyone can come to a conclusion from this, if 600 things are added and only those who have turned 18 fall off from behind, then that's where the plus or minus balance comes from. So, as I said, given the enforcement statistics, the number of people who are indebted to pay for maintenance will rather increase in the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U24	Please, Mr Küttt, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U25	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! You have also been Minister of Social Affairs and Minister of Social Affairs, who is currently Minister of Justice. How do you predict the fate of our bill? As you personally do not support it, it seems that it is already destined to remain on the shelf, although also one of the single parents spokespersons, Kaarel Veike, considered the issue of a livelihood fund at least worth discussing yesterday's 'Citizens of the Republic'. Why do you feel in advance that all the proposals that come from the opposition, despite the fact that the IRL has been thinking about the same thing for five years now, are very poor and bad, but it is worth discussing coalitions?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U26	Thank you. Certainly not all the proposals that come from the opposition are bad; sometimes there are brighter moments. As far as the maintenance fund is concerned, I said my personal opinion, and I continue to think that I will not back down from that opinion. If people perform their parenting duties properly, it is also possible to agree, as adults do, what most of these parents do if they cannot live together and decide to divorce or end their marriage. If we look at the number of divorces and the number of breakdowns in life together, it is clear that the vast majority of couples can agree nicely on how to arrange the child's upbringing after the break-up. To give an additional incentive or incentive to non-payers that there is no concern, there is no need to pay, the state takes over this matter it does not make sense. The state has decided to come to the aid of people until the court settlement has been obtained through the law on maintenance aid. Whether or not three months of state aid is sufficient can be considered. But to tell all decent taxpayers, parents, to start paying for those who are not decent, I do not think it makes sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U27	Now the questions registered on the spot. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U28	Thank you. Mr. Minister! As a former long-term Minister for Social Affairs, you will remember how many times and for how long this issue has been discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs. And it has still been postponed, there have been no solutions and there cannot be, because it is a purely legal issue, it is a failure to comply with judicial decisions. I happened to be there in public, too, because this time, too, the Social Affairs Committee had convened this sitting. Why couldn't a joint sitting have been held with the Committee on Legal Affairs? I also ask why neither the Minister for Justice nor the Minister for Social Affairs from Taavi Rõiva were present at such an important session. Maybe you'd have gotten it faster.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U29	Thank you. I really wanted to come. I was at the Riigikogu house at the time. I was on the Constitutional Committee. I would have very much liked to come and gladly discussed these issues. I'm really sorry I couldn't be there. However, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs had proposed to come to them to present a draft and discuss other issues, and this had already been agreed when the Committee on Social Affairs had to make a quick decision to make such a debate. I do not mind that the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Social Affairs are discussing this matter jointly. Of course, you have a very good point of view that this is, above all, the issue of enforcement proceedings. But I come back once again to the fact that, before enforcement proceedings, nothing prevents two grown-ups from agreeing on how to take care of the child and arrange for his or her maintenance after the break-up. That's the point. From the moment the State is required to intervene, enforcement procedures still allow for a wide range of measures to be taken. In the course of this debate, we have proposed new measures, among other things, to change the existing principles, for example, when calculating daily allowances. We have a lot of people working in Finland, some of them are posted there and they are paid daily allowance, which does not take into account the calculation of income and cannot be seized, for example. You might as well think about it. We have offered to go to the contributions of the second pillar, to use the assets collected in the second pillar to fulfil the obligations of maintenance creditors, etc. These measures are all in the process, they are on paper, and we will certainly come up with a draft law which specifically deals with improving the efficiency of enforcement procedures.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U30	Please, colleague Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U31	Thank you. Dear Minister, You are talking about sanctions, but sanctions do not necessarily mean that child maintenance money comes to children. The draft tabled by the Socialists certainly does not foresee that the state will take over the debtor's obligation to pay child maintenance allowance. The Social Democrats' proposed fund for guaranteeing a living allowance provides that the child receives monthly money, which means that the child can eat, go to hobby groups, etc. A child needs money every month. At the moment, however, it is the case that a mother, usually a mother, has to go after a debtor, which is too much for many. Staying in debt to the country still makes a big difference. Let's take Latvia. Latvia will be able to pay EUR 45 each month if the debtor fails to comply with his obligation. Do you think that Estonian children are worse than children in most other countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U32	Thank you. Now it is important to specify what you mean by most countries, when you have only given the example of Latvia here. Russia's measures could also be considered. Russia, for example, will not let a person out of the country if the maintenance has not been paid. Various interesting measures have been taken in different countries. We have proposed our own list of maintenance measures. There are a dozen of these measures and we will continue to work on them to come to the Riigikogu Hall with the draft. A good colleague, Urmas Reinsalu, pointed out on the other hand that your draft is not yet a real draft; it is a draft decision which instructs the Government of the Republic to draft the relevant draft. There's still no way to see your schematics. If you say that you have a separate draft on this subject, we look forward to it. But if this draft concerns a maintenance fund, I will say once again that I really do not support a livelihood fund where honest taxpayers and decent parents take over the obligations of debtors who fail to fulfil their parenting obligations and do not comply with their agreements. After all, we're talking about court cases where parents have agreed or where the court has said they have to pay. I just got a letter from a father yesterday who hasn't been paid a living from his ex-husband. He warmly wrote that it would be very good to have this problem dealt with. It is not reasonable, however, to create a maintenance fund in this form or to make a living on the state, taxpayers and decent taxpayers.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U33	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U34	The next question is from Priit Toobal to Secretary of Defense Urmas Reinsalu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. On Tuesday, we were able to read an article which stated that the research on the Estonian Day Paper has revealed that the US Government has made it clear to the Estonian authorities that granting your advisor Eerik-Niles Kross a state secret authorisation is not a very good idea. In the daily paper, you say that whether you met anyone on this subject is a question of your own. I will take this opportunity and now I will ask the question. Has a meeting on this subject taken place with whom you met, and is the information given in the Estonian Day Paper true?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U36	Thank you. First of all, congratulations on the election of the Riigikogu Security Board! However, as far as the statement of the Estonian Päevaleht is concerned that the Minister of Defence has made a promise to the United States, according to which Eerik-Niles Kross will never receive a state secret permit in Estonia, it is not true. Firstly, the security authorities of the Republic of Estonia issue a state secret permit on the basis of very clear procedures, the Minister of Defence does not issue state secrets permits. The right thing is that Eerik-Niles Kross is a long-standing member of the council of the Minister of Defence, where he does not need a state secret permit. Since last autumn, he's been part-time as my advisor, where he also didn't need a state secret permit. Eerik-Niles Kross has made it clear that he does not have any obstacles if, because of his duties, he would need a state secret permit in the future, that he could apply for it and that the Defence Police Department could deal with it. No institutions have made formal claims to me regarding the status of Kross as an Estonian civil servant and his rights.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U37	Please, Priit Tobal, the first question to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. You have overlooked the fact that Parliament has decided to appoint me an alternate member of this committee, not a key member. However, thank you for your congratulations. Eerik-Niles Kross has indeed claimed that he has not applied for a state secret permit, so he does not. Can you confirm to Parliament that your body counsellor has no access to state secrets? If he has not applied for or received a permit, then he has no obligation to remain silent, that if he has access to a state secret, then there is no need to keep this information secret. Don't you think your advisor might be a threat to state secrets, cause a leak?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U39	Thank you. I think that as one of the opposition leaders in Tallinn, he is a source of danger to certain forces. It is certainly not a source of danger, however, as regards the protection of state secrets and security measures in the Ministry of Defence or its jurisdiction. Persons who, in accordance with the procedures, are required to hold an authorisation for access to state secrets shall have an authorisation and shall be requested in accordance with the procedure. Persons for whom this authorisation is not compulsory shall not apply for it. This is the case in all the institutions of the Estonian state, the principle of necessity applies. Security authorities issue state secrets in accordance with the laws of Estonia and not other countries. As Eerik-Niles Kross himself said yesterday, he has a requirement of state secrecy, but this is due to his position as a reserve officer during the war, and hopefully he will never have to comply with this requirement.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U40	Please, Mr Toobal, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U41	Thank you. Your body advisor Eerik-Niles Kross is at least a source of danger, according to Interpol. You have recently called Jordan and requested contact with a former member of the Interpol Commission. As far as I know, the Estonian representative in Interpol is the Minister of the Interior. Why did you contact a former member of the Interpol Commission? Secondly, last Thursday, the Eerik-Niles Kross question was re-examined as to whether or not he was wanted for a reason in Interpol. I haven't heard that decision re-examined. Do you have any other information?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U42	Thank you. I think that the exchange of information with both Estonian officials and other persons representing Estonia, including honorary consuls, is never bad. As regards the proceedings initiated by the Russian Federation concerning Eerik-Niles Kross, it is indeed, as the Minister of the Interior has confirmed, that case will be re-examined in Interpol. However, according to my information, it has not yet been reviewed, but will be in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U43	Now the questions registered on the spot. Mr Lembit Kaljuvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U44	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good minister! The Russian security authorities are interested in Eerik-Niles Kross, Interpol is looking for him, they say the United States does not want to let him go to our state secrets. So, what's it like? You should know Eerik-Niile for decades and have worked together before. In his past life, he hasn't really had any trouble with what he had to use his trade credit card. Is he really the kind of person with criminal tendencies to be hunted for and not wanted to get anywhere? What's this about?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U45	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say that it is public information that the Russian Federation is looking for him, and in relation to the Russian Federation, the Estonian law enforcement authorities have expressed their views. Secondly, Interpol is not looking for him in parallel with the Russian Federation, but Interpol has brokered a search warrant for the Russian Federation, on which the authorities of the Republic of Estonia have presented their views to Interpol. And, as Mr Toobal claimed, this issue is indeed being examined and dealt with in Interpol. As far as speculation is concerned, it is speculation. Legally, we can deal with the person's responsibility, personal views and status on the basis of facts. I'm certainly not going down to the level of speculation. It also affects the media, of course, as part of speculation and their intensification, that some elections have passed, that there will be next elections and that this discussion will then be common to politicians. I do not think that there is any point in giving in to temptation or moving towards amplifying speculation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U46	The last issue registered on the spot. Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U47	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. Has the Estonian prosecutor's office challenged Interpol's search?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U48	Thank you. In accordance with the procedures, the persons against whom Interpol acts as a legal aid environment in the field of search procedures can make their own statements and comment. The law enforcement authorities of the Republic of Estonia have expressed their position on this issue. And as I said, the procedure will proceed so that the Interpol institutions will examine the matter and shape their position.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U49	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U50	The next question is from my colleague, Urve Palo, to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip! Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U51	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! The Preamble to the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia provides for the preservation of Estonian nation and culture throughout the ages. During your period of government, for nine years, the population has decreased by nearly 30,000 people according to Statistics Estonia, both because of the negative balance of migration and because of the negative balance of migration. Last year, for example, the age was negative by 1,634 people and the balance of migration was minus 1661 people. In the light of this information, I ask what grade would you give to your socio-economic policy pursued in Estonia in the course of nine years.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U52	Thank you. Voters give a grade, but if I really slipped and started to appreciate myself, I would like to give a good grade, because Estonia has significantly improved its age since the introduction of parental benefit. True, in recent years the age is no longer as good as it was a few years ago. However, compared to birth rates in different countries, Estonia is more of a country with a higher birth rate. It is as it is: some progress has been made, the earlier rapid decline in birth rates has been halted, but the ivet has not been able to turn positive. It is gratifying that the number of deaths in Estonia has decreased considerably over the last eight years and the life expectancy of people has increased considerably, including the estimated number of healthy years of life. In this respect, we are at the forefront throughout Europe. It's history. I don't want to make that assessment. Even on migration issues, I would refrain from estimates, although, without my assessment, it is known that in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, emigration has generally been greater in the last ten years than it has been in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U53	Please, my colleague Urve Palo, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U54	Prime Minister! I admire your ability to be optimist and positive in a situation where during your reign what Professor Rein Taagepera warned about in 2005 has happened: Estonia has fallen into a demographic toilet. There will soon be as few children in Estonia as in Bulgaria, Spain and Greece. The birth rate per woman is less than 1.5, while in the Nordic countries it is almost 2. Our families still want more than two children and the number of women of childbearing age is very high. What studies do you base your decisions on population policy, and why do you think Estonian women do not give birth, even though women of this age do exist?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U55	Thank you. In 2005, you referred to it, the natural age was negative, minus 2966. In 2013, the minus is significantly smaller, in 1643. So, using this shape of the toilet, we're kind of climbing out. The trend has been pretty good. I do not know what research you are relying on when you claim that the birth rate in Estonia is less than 1.5. The material in my possession, the source of the data of which is Statistical Office, confirms that the last time the birth rate was less than 1.5, i.e. 1.47 in 2004, it was 1.5 in 2005 and 1.59 in 2012. So the birth rate has also improved compared to the year you referred to. The government relies entirely on knowledge in its decisions and one of the main sources of knowledge extraction is statistics. The government certainly does not ignore statistics or scientific studies in any way. We have always sought a knowledge-based society. Even if the emotional background is such that knowledge is to be ignored when it is claimed that it is only statistics, but real life is something else, we have stuck to the model of a knowledge-based society and we have based our decisions on true scientific statistics.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U56	Please, my colleague Urve Palo, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U57	Prime Minister! My question concerned the birth rate, and I asked why women do not give birth, although the desire is high and the number of women in childbirth is high. As far as the birth rate in 2005 is concerned, it was 519 children more than last year, so the birth rate has fallen, not increased, although Rein Taagepera said that only ten years have left to raise it. I myself will tell you which factors would cause more birth, a study carried out in 2008. Firstly, families have a problem with too little state support. The second problem is the lack of kindergarten places and the third problem is that children are unable to provide good education. All three problems can be resolved by the state. In order to triple the child benefit, pay the recreational allowance and guarantee school meals until the end of the upper secondary school, 150 million euros per year are needed. The state budget is 8 billion. Is it money or will?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U58	Now two issues registered on the spot. Please, Mr Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U59	The question was so long that I couldn't find the right place to discuss it. My ear was most affected by the claim that Estonian women do not give birth because it is not possible to get a good education in Estonia. This is one of the most unfortunate self-pity, which has nothing to do with reality, because the results of the PISA test just published confirm that Estonian education is among the best in Europe and also in the world. There can be no reason for that. Once again, I suggest you rely on real science research, rely on statistics, not just emotions, if you say something or even propose something in national politics.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U60	Thank you. The question concerns inequality as a reason for the demographic situation, which you actually dealt with in response to the issue of income tax. I'm trying to rely on statistics. You argued that Estonia is one of the fastest countries to reduce inequality in the European Union. Eurostat, for example, considering the inequality in incomes of quintiles, the wealthiest and the poorest quintiles, claims that the inequality in Estonia has not decreased in the last seven years. The only so-called achievement in this place is the recession. My question is, in fact, due to the Human Development Report, because this report, which we were introduced here last year, has said that Estonia's specificity, compared with other European countries, is limited to our social system...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U61	... effectiveness in reducing inequalities. Do you agree with that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U62	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U63	Ladies and gentlemen, one minute is enough to ask a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U64	No, Mr. Prime Minister! Please, Rannar Vasiliev, repeat the question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U65	That part of the question went away in the ringing of a bell.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U66	Could you repeat the part of the question? I can, of course, also comment on this part that preceded the long question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U67	I will quote again from the Human Development Report, and this is indeed a quote: 'Estonia's specificity, compared with other European countries, is the lack of effectiveness of our social system in reducing inequalities. '
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U68	The claim as a whole is not true in the European context. Our social system is effective and compared to OECD Member States, compared to other European Union Member States, our social system stands out in terms of efficiency. We want to make this even more effective. For example, needs-based family benefits, which have provided a lot of talk, are primarily aimed at helping those most in need of public aid. And it is quite clear that the sum of the sum, ultimately it also reduces poverty in society, reduces the imbalance in the distribution of income. You mentioned that the economic crisis was the one that reduced the imbalance in the distribution of revenues. No, it wasn't an economic crisis. During the economic crisis, in 2009, the government deliberately decided to increase pensions, although all the experts accepted recommended that the government cut pensions instead. Indeed, many social scientists, too, were later surprised when they were published in 2009-2010. The 2009 poverty indicators and the fact that in times of crisis, the disparities in the distribution of income have been reduced, relative poverty has been reduced. This was entirely predictable, and that is why the government decided to increase the income of the group at the highest risk during the crisis, because it knew that these people would otherwise not be able to cope with the crisis. As far as Eurostat data are concerned, in 2000 the difference between the upper and lower cost quintiles was 6.0 times, it decreased to 5,0 times, and now it is, I am not saying very precisely, but it should be 5.2, or well below what was in 2000.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U69	The last issue registered on the spot. Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U70	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! I have a very technical question: it concerns the knowledge on which the government relies by shaping family policy. In the last three or two months, the coalition has committed a failure on two opposition drafts concerning the increase in child benefits: the sotsi draft and ours. The objection was in both cases that we have not yet completed the Green Paper and that there is no analysis of the effects of such possible increases. Both works started in 2012. Since neither your party associates nor the representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs could say this in the Committee on Social Affairs, I ask you: what was the government's basis for supporting the needs-based support of children if these data are allegedly not available?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U71	Thank you. How does it not exist? There are statistical surveys that very unambiguously say that children with three or more children are at the greatest risk of poverty. Therefore, all these families receive this "need-based child support" without having to make any statements anywhere. On the basis of very clear scientific evidence, it has been decided to increase the child allowance paid to these people without any application or declaration of income. This is also a knowledge-based approach when children at risk of poverty receive more support. Of course, the country has knowledge of who needs support. There is no need for any kind of pre-knowledge in the decision-making process to increase, even in the same way, the amounts of aid. But I do not consider it effective to use taxpayers' money, because the taxpayer does not really have that kind of money. All areas of life require additional resources, and if they are evenly, evenly, to be repaid to everyone as wisely as they were collected from people, then there can be no very great effect in reducing poverty or reducing inequality.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U72	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U73	The next question is from colleague Marika Tuus-Laul to Minister for Justice, Hanno Pevkur. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U74	Thank you. Mr. Minister! We will continue with the issue of maintenance and debt recovery at large. For years, the Centre Party Group has supported the fact that if one of the parents is in debt, the state will first help the other parent to get the money immediately, because the child needs the money now. It will later be much easier for the state, through national structures, to pay off debt from the debtor; the person will then be in debt to the state. Why do we want to roll this problem, make it like a topic between two people and perhaps hand over the obligation directly to a grandparent who himself barely ends up working and often lives on his own small pre-retirement or disability pension? Why does the law even have such a point in it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U75	Thank you. Now you don't know whether to start at the beginning or at the end. Since the final part of your question concerned the topic of grandparents, I suggest you take the homepage of the Supreme Court. At the top of the Supreme Court's home page in the middle there is a section such as 'Solutions', open it and click on the date of 19 October 2011. There you will find a solution where the Supreme Court considered very thoroughly the execution of the substitution obligation by the grandparents. The execution of the parental replacement obligation was included in the Family Act before 2010, I think you can review for yourself according to memory § 65, and the new Family Act has the same principle of replacement obligation or maintenance obligation in § 106 (2) and that, in turn, there is a reference to § 96. If you read the Supreme Court case, you will receive these references, so I will not stop for grandparents. But I'd be happy to stop in enforcement. Coming to the beginning of your question, you asked why you should do it somehow between two people. I'm sorry, but the two people that this thing is between have had such a good relationship with each other that they've even become descendants. If it's none of their business, whose business is it? If they have not reached an agreement with each other and the state must finally intervene, then the state will intervene through enforcement proceedings and there will be a code of enforcement proceedings. And believe me, there will be proposals to improve enforcement procedures.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U76	Please, my colleague Marika Tuus-Laul, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U77	Thank you. I don't understand what a country is if it doesn't want to interfere. That grandma and grandpa's duty is in the law somewhere, of course, but I'm asking you if you think it's fair. That grandparent barely ends up on his own. Secondly, I ask you that you are really proposing repressive measures here, starting with the withdrawal of driving licences and ending with arms and fishing permits and taking money from the second pension pillar, while your coalition partner is unambiguously proposing the issue of a livelihood fund. How do you negotiate with each other in the coalition, how do you resolve this issue? You have such different ideas again. And finally, how does a single parent still get that child's money?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U78	Thank you. Don't worry, we'll make a deal. We've made up our minds before, and now we're gonna make up for it. Just for the sake of fact, no one has ever talked about withdrawing a driving licence, talking about suspending the right to drive, temporarily suspending it as a leverage. Be precise when asking questions. What is agreed is that the child really gets the livelihood so that the livelihood that the court has learned can reach the one who cares for the child. In the case of the payment or recovery of maintenance, there are two fundamental choices. When we talk about political choices, there are two fundamental choices. The first option is to influence the debtor by various measures and make him pay. If the debtor does not pay, it is necessary to look at what property he owns, to realise it through enforcement proceedings and to pay for it, whether it is a pension pillar or not, because it is an asset collected by the person himself. The second approach is that honest taxpayers and decent parents pay together. Here's the water drawer. I say that this watershed is absolutely clear, and here, at least not in the case of a sitting Minister for Justice, we cannot talk about punishing an honest taxpayer and a decent parent, and those who are not decent are not penalised by repressive measures. On the contrary, we say that we are punishing and, if necessary, repressing and bullying a person who does not pay by means of various measures, and honest taxpayers who can successfully raise their child can continue to live peacefully.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U79	Please, my colleague Marika Tuus-Laul, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U80	I do understand that it is not the state that is taking over this responsibility that honest taxpayers are suffering here. The state still collects this money, it's much easier for him to demand it than one parent through a court. That's the question. The State has other measures to take. The lack of ability to solve the problem of living money for years demonstrates the extreme weakness and inability of our country in this matter. Where is the responsibility of the State, even in enforcement proceedings? Judgments shall not be enforced. I am not just talking about maintenance, the state has about EUR 510 million in debt. These are huge sums of money. The debtors are abroad. Has anything been done to catch them? It has even reached the European Court of Human Rights, which examines why maintenance payments have not been paid. What would you say?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U81	Thank you. All countries are concerned about the enforcement procedure. As long as there are swindlers, swindlers and persons who are not interested in the state and who do not respect the law, this is the problem in all countries. We can give examples here, and indeed, of respected former public officials who have stolen money from the state and from whom it has been demanded in civil law in addition to criminal proceedings. The enforcement procedure will deal with this. If the official income of a person is EUR 300, there is not much to be taken away from, because, as you yourself and, of course, the state have repeatedly emphasised, the minimum subsistence must remain in the hands of a person. Then there is the situation that this person does not have more than 300 euros of property, the car belongs to a woman's or mother's company, etc. Unfortunately, people are cheating on the country. If a person is already in debt, it is difficult to obtain this money from him. You've been on the Committee on Legal Affairs for three years, something might have stuck. The enforcement procedure is the same for both the state and private individuals. Enforcement proceedings are carried out by executives in accordance with the law. Once there was an executive agency in Estonia, and the law provided more extensive possibilities. For example, the executor could come and knock on your door and come in with an enforceable document. Now we have agreed that fullers are freelancers and that this will not allow them to come home to a private individual. From the point of view of the fundamental rights of a person, such a choice has been made. If the executor wants to come to your country or write down your property, he's gonna have to get the court's permission. We have democratically developed such a legal system ourselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U82	Now I guess that's the last question. Please, colleague Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U83	Thank you. Dear Minister, After all, in most countries there is some kind of system of guaranteeing maintenance payments, which ensures that child maintenance payments are received on time. In most countries, the system includes a so-called guaranteed maintenance allowance paid in the event of non-compliance with an agreement, which is recovered from the defaulting parent by the national institution. In addition to Latvia, it exists in Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Norway, Finland, France, Germany, Sweden, Australia, etc. This is precisely because if a separated parent does not pay a living on time or refuses to pay it at all, the child will in any case receive it. In Finland, for example, a single parent knows that he or she receives at least 118 euros each month; in Latvia, this amount is 45 euros. Why do you think that Estonian children must be in a worse situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U84	Thank you. I do not think that Estonian children must be in a worse position. As a result, I will say once again: it is between paying together for good parents or making the lives of debtors unpleasant, putting pressure on them by suspending driving licences, suspending fishing permits, suspending weapons licences, paying the second pension pillar and some other measures that we have proposed. With this bill, we come to Parliament, don't worry. The lives of debtors must be made difficult. The life of debtors must be made such that they are inconvenient, even to the point that if they declare income when completing any income tax return, they will not receive income tax refunds. Waterheaval is about dealing with a particular debtor or saying that all parents pay together. There are different concepts here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U85	Thank you very much, Minister. I will stop dealing with this issue because Question Time is over. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for asking the questions. Dear Members of Government and Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U86	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the third Wednesday session of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Colleagues, there is now an opportunity to pass on drafts and enquiries. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U87	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, To continue the subject we discussed an hour ago in Question Time, on behalf of 12 colleagues, I have an inquiry to report to Finance Minister Jürgen Ligi. As you heard in Question Time, the Prime Minister said that in theory, there could be an increase in the tax-free minimum, but it might not actually come out. As a result, we ask Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi that a year ago he made a clear promise in the Estonian Päevaleht that the tax-free minimum must start to rise. However, last year, when the budget for this year was planned, we saw that nothing happened in this regard for the fifth year in a row. The OECD already stated in its 2012 report that the tax rate for people with lower incomes in Estonia is high compared to that of other countries, which is why the emphasis on low-wage earners should be on reducing direct taxes, and one way to do so could be to increase the tax-free minimum. In this regard, we have three questions for the Minister of Finance. The first question: if employers and trade unions agreed last year that the minimum wage would rise, would the next step be to raise the minimum tax-free? The amount of tax-free income is less and less than the amount of the minimum wage every year. The second question relates to the fact that the Riigikogu made promises in the 2011 elections. One of them was that the amount of the tax-free minimum is increasing in parallel with the reduction in income tax. What is being done in this regard? The third question is what is being done in the first place to ease the tax burden on people on small wages. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U88	Thank you. Please, Mr Rait Maruse!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U89	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Commission initiates a draft law amending the Citizenship Act. The draft has been drawn up on the basis of the Chancellor of Justice's proposal No 21, in which the Chancellor of Justice found that the application of the conditions set out in subsections 2, 21 and 22 of the Citizenship Act to a person who has resided permanently in Estonia during the period provided for in the Act but who did not apply for a residence permit before he was 15 years of age or due to the lack of activity of a legal representative not extended in due time, is contrary to the fundamental right of equality under § 12 (1) of the Constitution. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U90	Thank you! Please, Mr Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U91	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I hand over a draft decision drawn up by the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu on the basis of § 44 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure and § 6 (1) (4) of the Foreign Relations Act. As we know, at the beginning of the year some members of the Riigikogu have moved from one commission to another and this has also affected the work and composition of the Riigikogu's foreign delegations. There will be quite a few of these decisions, and I am now handing over the draft of the Estonian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Hopefully, with the generous permission of the Board of the Riigikogu, we will soon be dealing with it here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U92	Thank you. On behalf of the Bureau, I have adopted one draft law, one draft decision and two inquiries. If the drafts comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board will decide to accept them within three working days. If an inquiry complies with the same law, I shall immediately forward it to the addressee. Now the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and has appointed leading committees for them. First of all, the Government of the Republic s. a Draft of the Riigikogu decision "Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State on the European Union peace-building mission in the Central African Republic', submitted on 27 January, whose commission is the National Defence Commission; secondly, in the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act amending § 22 of the Advertising Act, initiated on 27 January, of which the commission is the Committee on Economic Affairs; thirdly, the Government of the Republic. a the draft law on the ratification of the Act on the ratification of the multiannual financial framework for the financing of European Union assistance under the ACP-EU Partnership Agreement (MFF) and on the allocation of financial assistance for the Overseas Countries and Territories to which Part Four of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union applies, initiated on 27 January 2014 by the Representatives of the Governments of the Member States of the Council of the Internal Agreement on the financing of European Union assistance under the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014 to 2020 under the ACP-EU Partnership Agreement and the allocation of financial assistance for the Overseas Countries and Territories to which Part Four of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union applies, of which the Steering Commission is the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The Board of the Riigikogu has approved Rait Maruste, member of the Riigikogu, as chairman of the Constitutional Committee and Tarmo Tamme, member of the Riigikogu as vice-chairman of the Constitutional Committee. I have forwarded questions from members of the Riigikogu to Minister of Culture Urve Tiidus, Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts and Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aavikkogu. Colleagues, please, let's do a presence check. 86 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 15.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U93	Let's go to today's agenda. The first point is the third reading of the draft law amending the Traffic Act and the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. We can go to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, since the adoption of this law requires a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu, please let us do a verification of our presence! 85 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 16. Dear Riigikogu, I will put to the final vote the draft law amending the Traffic Act and the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 508. Please vote! 85 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U94	Let's keep going. Third reading of the draft law amending the Order of the Defence Forces, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and related amendments to other laws 487. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? No requests, no negotiations. We can go to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill also requires a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu for adoption. Please, let's do the presence check again! 81 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 20 missing. Dear Riigikogu, I will put to the final vote the draft law amending the Order of the Defence Forces Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and, in this connection, the amendment of other laws 487. Please vote! 62 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and no one is against or impartial. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U95	The next item is the third reading of the draft Act amending the VAT Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. We can go to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I will vote in the final vote on the draft Act amending the VAT Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 506. Please vote! 84 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U96	The second reading of the draft law amending the Penal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I would like to ask Mr Kalle Laaneti, Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, to speak as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U97	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed draft law 468 on Tuesday 14 January 2014. Since the difference between the first and second readings was very long, I would remind you of what is being said about this draft. The draft aims to amend the provisions of the Penal Code on the application of extended confiscation, to extend the possibility of applying addiction treatment instead of imprisonment and to clarify the regulation on the application of post-penal behavioural control. As no proposal was submitted within the deadline for receiving the amendments, the Commission decided to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on 29 January and that the second reading be closed. When the second reading is closed, it is proposed that the draft be sent to the third reading by 12 February, when the final vote could also be held. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U98	Thank you very much, Mr Kalle Laane. Looks like you don't have any questions. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. As Mr Laane said, there were no amendments. The second reading of Bill 468 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U99	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Penal Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and other laws related thereto. Minister of Justice Hanno Pevkuri of the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U100	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! It is my great honour to introduce you to the draft law amending the Penal Code and related other laws, which has become number 554 and which basically amends Estonian penal law. As a preliminary point, we are pleased to note that this is a very necessary draft which, to a large extent, organises the legal order. Before I go to the content, I'm going to remember a little bit of history, how this bill got into this hall. One of the initiators of a thorough review of the Penal Code was the previous President of the Supreme Court, Märt Rask, who drew attention to the problem in his presentation at the spring session in 2010, where he stressed that, according to general principles, penal law is an ultima ratio, which is a legal sector that needs to be addressed if the regulatory effects of other branches of law are not sufficient. The head of the Supreme Court claimed that this principle has not been very guided in our legislation and has inevitably led to the devaluation of penal law. Allow me here to recall the words of the President of the Supreme Court from the same report. 'It should be noted that 55.6% of Estonian labour force residents aged 15 to 74 have been entered in the criminal record for committing various offences and offences. Persons who have a valid sentence or who have been punished for an offence constitute more than half of the population. On the basis of these data, one can only seriously claim that only newborns are unpunished. ' 'Is man born without punishment? ' asked the President of the Supreme Court in this hall. Finally, he summarised his speech with the following proposals: Firstly, to organise a comprehensive scientific review of penal law in order to define the objectives and direction of the longer-term development of penal law on a value-based basis. Secondly, to organise the current system of penalties and to raise the criminal law to a really ultima ratio level. And thirdly, to develop a system of non-punitive sanctions to reduce the role of punished persons in society, thereby creating the prerequisites for a disapproving attitude to offences. Now back to today. In current law, in addition to 400 offences and misdemeanours in the Penal Code, nearly 900 misdemeanours can be found in 147 branches of law. So we have a total of about 1,300 different penalties. As of June 2013, 665607 different persons had been entered in the criminal record. Including persons who have a valid sentence, 261480. There was only a valid sentence of 171194 persons and 39645 persons only for the offence, and 50641 were punished in both misdemeanour and criminal proceedings. The current penalty is therefore around 20% of the population. Half the residents have been included in the criminal record all along. In view of the fact that most of the offences are committed by persons of working age, the proportion of persons punished is, of course, even higher among them. As a result of the legislative changes that entered into force in the summer of 2013, the number of persons with a penalty in the criminal record has decreased, but the number of persons entered in the register is still too high. At this point, many may wonder why such a large number of criminal sanctions are bad. I will respond, in particular, with three arguments. Firstly, it is not appropriate for the rule of law to interfere excessively in the fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals. Secondly, this attitude devalues penalties and, thirdly, it leads to legal clarity, which, in turn, results from the principle of the definition of our constitution. In short, the time for the audit was ripe. I would like to point out here that this is primarily a revision, because this draft did not look at the grounds and limits of the criminality of the act in the general part of penal law, nor did it recommend fundamental changes to the sanctioning system as a whole. At the beginning of 2011, a review of criminal law was launched at the Ministry of Justice. A working group was set up, consisting of legal scientists and practitioners and dragged by Professor Jaan Sootak of the University of Tartu. This working group set itself three main objectives. Firstly, shorten the list of punishable acts, eliminate overcriminalisation and increase the scope of administrative sanctions. Secondly, to organise the criminal justice system, to eliminate overlapping criminal and misdemeanour compositions. Thirdly, to specify the compositions of the acts to be sanctioned. During the analysis, the Group sought answers, for example, to the following questions when assessing penal law. Is there any need for a specific piece of crime? If not, delete it in its entirety or turn it into a misdemeanor? Second, is there a need to narrow down the crime? Thirdly, is it necessary to amend the prescribed sanction? Fourthly, is a misdemeanor necessary, or is administrative coercion sufficient? Fifthly, is the liability rule understandable and legal clear that it meets the requirements of so-called "definition"? The Commission met 23 times in just over a year. As the discussions at all meetings were very meaningful and thorough, the codification process took a little more time than expected, but the result is better and now, finally, before you. The draft proposes to amend more than 200 paragraphs in the Penal Code, with the intention of repealing 47 and adding 17. The compositions are amended in 126 branches. I believe that the time frame will set its limits and I will not be able to introduce all the changes to you. This work will remain primarily with the Committee on Legal Affairs. I would, of course, wish them a great deal of strength to do so! However, I would highlight some changes that might be of interest, particularly in the general part of the Penal Code. As an important change, the prejudice of misdemeanour will be abolished. The current Penal Code provides for liability for a criminal offence for a part of the offences solely on the ground that a criminal offence has previously been committed for the same act. However, it is not criminally justified to consider repeated misconduct as a criminal offence. The earlier committing of a misdemeanour does not make a new offence more serious in nature; its content remains the same, does not exceed the threshold of gravity of the misdemeanour and does not extend to the injustice caused by the crime. If the act is generally punishable as a misdemeanour, it can only be punishable as a criminal offence if the criminalising features of the act, such as material damage, large scale or other such, are clearly stated in the Penal Code. The proposal also proposes to raise the minimum daily rate to EUR 10. The current Penal Code has a minimum daily rate of EUR 3,2 resulting from the introduction of EEK 50 at the time of adoption of the Penal Code. It then accounted for 1/32 of the minimum wage, while in 2013 it accounted for 1/100 of the minimum wage. The minimum daily rate is intended to be increased in order to eliminate the proportion shift. In particular, the increase in the minimum daily rate will have two effects. First of all, it raises the line between the abuse of property and the crime. If, up to now, the threshold for initiating criminal proceedings was EUR 64, the draft provides for EUR 200. An anti-arrival offence of less than EUR 200 will be treated as a misdemeanour according to the bill, which also means that the sentence corresponding to the act can be imposed more quickly. Secondly, the amendment affects the amount of the daily penalty for the offence that is understandable. The court normally takes into account the person's real income in terms of financial penalties, but the calculated daily rate must not be lower than the minimum daily rate. I would also like to highlight here the question of the liability of a legal person. According to the draft law, the legal person is liable for all offences which the legal person is able to commit, of course, if the act has been committed by the head of the legal person or by a competent representative and in the interests of the legal person. Where the legal person has done everything to avoid the commission of the act by the competent representative, the legal person shall not be liable for the offence. In addition, a judicial winding-up order shall be excluded from any penalties imposed on a legal person. Forced termination is an issue through civil proceedings; in criminal proceedings the legal person will be punished by a financial penalty in the future. A provision relating to the amounts of damage caused by an offence shall be inserted. At present, the calculation of the scale of the loss is linked to the minimum wage. A significant loss exceeding the current minimum wage in one month is considered to be significant. In order to ensure that the criminal offence identifier is not linked to the act of enforcement, namely the introduction of a minimum wage rate, the injury rates are clearly recorded in the Penal Code. Significant damage is over EUR 4000, serious damage over EUR 40000 and particularly serious damage over EUR 400000. The procedures for understanding, replacing and enforcing penalties will be made more flexible. For example, the number of hours will be changed as a basis for replacing imprisonment with community service. In the current law, one day of imprisonment corresponds to two hours of work. After an in-depth analysis of the number of hours of community work and the effectiveness of its work at the end of 2012, and the topic discussed at the meetings of the Crime Prevention Council and the Coding Commission, it was found that one day's imprisonment equal to one hour's community service would produce better results. A minimum duration of five hours shall be established for the CCI designated for the replacement of the malpractice. The draft also introduces the possibility of replacing up to 30 CVT hours with a social programme to motivate those responsible to do both working hours and participate in the programme. In order to create a more flexible response to infringements and prevent small offences from being sent to prison, the response to infringements concerning community service will be made more flexible. In particular, the possibility of warning community service workers in the event of minor infringements, imposing additional obligations on them or extending the time limit for carrying out the work, taking into account the general limitation of the time limit, which is known to be two years. The aim is to make the conditions for electronic surveillance more flexible. For example, warnings can also be issued against minor infringements of the conditions of electronic surveillance. We also consider it necessary to add options for the use of an alcoholic control device at law level. Special conditions shall be established for minors with regard to early release. A minor shall be subject to compulsory release if he or she has carried out at least half of the period of imprisonment of the second-degree offence or two thirds of the period of imprisonment of the first-degree offence. The time limit for early release for minors shall be raised from six months to four months. The minimum duration of probation periods shall also be amended: the probation period shall be reduced from three to five years to one to five years, the probation period shall be between 18 months and three years instead of three years. The definition of control requirements will be made needs-based. A maximum period of 30 days shall be set for the shocking of minors. The main changes have now been read to you. There are certainly amendments to individual formations that will attract the attention of members of the Riigikogu, but I hope that the information from the Legal Affairs Committee to the political groups of the Riigikogu and all members will be sufficient. If there are any questions, they can be autopsied on a case-by-case basis in the Committee on Legal Affairs. I believe that if draft 554 becomes a law, it will affect our lives primarily because there will be greater legal clarity, penal law will indeed be an ultima ratio, the number of persons entered in criminal records will be reduced, and it will not be of little importance for the executive authorities to be able to focus on more serious and hidden crime. There will certainly be a long and exciting debate between the first and second readings in the Committee on Legal Affairs. I wish the Commission strength, and anyone interested, come and listen to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U101	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's get to the questions. Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U102	Thank you very much, Mr President. As Estonian society is overcriminalised, I think it is right that we reduce it. Brussels would probably like that too. But if the criminal offence is theft, which has caused damage of more than EUR 200 instead of at least EUR 64 today, how much do you think could stealing from shops, for example, increase? The shoppers say they're just afraid of criminal punishment and going around the store with a calculator in their hand, and counting. So how do we agree between the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior? As we know, Minister Vaher thinks that the rise of this border is too great.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U103	I drew attention to 2001 in my report. If you take the Riigikogu's verbatim reports and maybe take a look at the deliberations of the Legal Affairs Committee, you will see that the debate of the participants was exactly the same. At the time, as I said, 50 kroons amounted to 1/32 of the minimum wage. There was also a general price level in shops and a standard of living for people. Now, 12 or 13 years later, the standard of living is no longer like that. As I said in the report, the rise in the minimum daily rate has a dual effect. On the one hand, the line between wrongdoing and crime is changing. On the other hand, I am in no way satisfied that our financial penalties are so lenient. The increase in the minimum daily rate provides an opportunity to tighten financial penalties. Penalties for criminal offences must be effective. These things are inevitably linked. In suming up our surveys and studies, analysts working at the Ministry of Justice unambiguously confirm that it does not matter how much the stolen person costs when it comes to petty theft, but, above all, how easy it is to steal it. Of course, shoppers may now have such fear, but there is no objective reason to expect that the number of petty thefts will increase significantly in the future. Finally, I do not want to accept in any way that an offence is not regarded as an offence in the Estonian state. It's not like that! It is possible to send a person to detention for 30 days for a misdemeanor, and the financial penalties are quite harsh. Several countries do not draw a line between wrongdoing and crime, but talk about offences, talk about punishable acts. Stealing is a punishable act, stealing is an offence. The decision that we call it a misdemeanour was made by the Estonian state because it can then be dealt with more quickly. But there's no way you can accept that theft is no longer theft. Theft is stealing. If you steal a strange thing, it's stealing and it's punishment. And when we look at the case law and the penalty for petty theft, we see that repeatedly-stealing petty thieves can go to prison with criminal punishment. I don't see a problem here in that sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U104	Thank you. Please, Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U105	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! We will certainly be able to discuss all of this in the Commission, but I am now asking for your political position. You rightly pointed out that penal intervention is an extreme instrument and that there must be more opportunity to deal with hidden and serious crime. When we are talking about domestic violence, its covertness, according to various surveys, is 70-80% in Estonia. The number of domestic killings is increasing. This is now one third of the murders, and every year this figure increases. That is why I have this question. The explanatory memorandum states that the new text is a compromise in order not to draw up a separate section for domestic violence, as the international recommendations foresee. My question is who or what is the compromise thought of. In many other formations, close or dependent relationships are not mentioned as aggravating circumstances.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U106	The Section on Physical Abuse, or § 121, was discussed at length in the Committee on Codification. Different wording options, different versions of how all of this should be addressed were considered, for example, whether violence should be more categorized or not. The codification committee formulated this section as a compromise, taking into account also the proposals that came in writing. The current Penal Code, as you know very well, does not deal with violence related to domestic violence or addiction at all. The second paragraph of § 121 now introduces the act of violence committed in a relationship of dependence as a separate aggravating circumstance and gives a clear signal that cases of domestic violence receive a special approach. The 2013 criminal statistics also show that there are already changes in police work. In that respect, I agree with you a hundred percent. I have the latest intel on cases of domestic violence in the file. I can show you last year's data, I just don't have them with me here, how many percent are latency according to the latest victim's survey, and what are the actual figures? I'd be happy to send them electronically if I wanted to. This collection will appear immediately, in about a few months, I think next week it will be printed. You can see exact charts and other slides from there. But in the case of domestic violence, yes, there was such an agreement. Following the transfer of the draft to Parliament, we have already had one meeting with the members of the women's round table. It was further discussed whether there had to be any adjustments. I believe that we will continue this debate also in the Committee on Legal Affairs, so we can wonder whether this wording is appropriate or not. I think it's good enough. There are very different forms of violence, and if we make separate paragraphs for each of them, then we could get into trouble. At the moment, the compromise is that, through the second paragraph, close-up violence is enshrined in the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U107	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U108	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. You said that the minimum penalty rate for crimes in the draft would increase from EUR 3.2 to EUR 10. According to the Bar Association, the increase in the fine is directed towards a more industrious and, let's say, a more successful person. Whoever doesn't want to pay doesn't pay, and who doesn't have what to pay doesn't pay. So I ask how much money the state has missed out on the financial penalties that the court has imposed on people?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U109	The statistics on the enforcement procedure have been through this Question Time, but you can't put it all together, you have to open the fines separately. There are civil claims in enforcement proceedings, as well as compensation for direct criminal damage where the damage is relatively small and civil claims are made in criminal proceedings. I don't have those bills with me today, but if you want, I can e-mail them to you. There are statistics by species on the size of the claims in enforcement proceedings in one species or another.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U110	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Sing, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U111	Thank you very much, Madam President. Let us see how much the perpetrators owe the state: 13 million are currently outstanding, plus 95 million in criminal matters. The question arises: if we increase the financial penalties, how do we expect to get the money? If these smaller amounts are not already being recovered, how could this work out for the larger amounts? The feeling remains that the state is simply trying to find an additional way to demand more money.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U112	Well, then you've got the wrong impression. Is it your proposal not to tighten up the penalties? If so, you will be able to make this amendment during the procedure of the draft. As the initiator of this bill, I certainly do not support it. I think that the penalties must be effective, and considering how they would be effective, the result of a thorough consideration has been that the daily rate will be EUR 10 instead of EUR 3.2. I don't think there's anything else to discuss here. As far as getting the money is concerned, of course, the executives will continue to do their job. In Question Time, we also expressed our thoughts on how this could be improved. There are certainly further proposals to this effect. Unfortunately, as I said in Question Time, there are people in Estonia who do not respect the law. I admit that people often do not have money or other assets, but there is always one thing at stake: a person committed a crime or a misdemeanor. If a person had acted legally, he would not have been fined or fined as a financial penalty.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U113	Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U114	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, On the basis of the current law, it is possible to take into account mitigating circumstances in the cases provided for by the law for both the attempted offence and the attempted misdemeanour. The bill adds § 251, where it is not explicitly mentioned. Does the principle of the law in force to take into account sometimes attenuating circumstances in the case of attempted crime or misdemeanour remain in force?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U115	Paragraph 251 is a general part and states that it is possible to punish attempted wrongdoing in addition to attempted crime. This principle is not yet enshrined in the current Penal Code. As far as mitigating and aggravating circumstances are concerned, these provisions have not been amended. Paragraph 251 specifically states that attempted wrongdoing is also punishable.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U116	Please, Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U117	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I ask in the light of the problems that were raised in Question Time today and which have been very much spoken about in the media. This concerns maintenance creditors. § 169 of the Penal Code states that the payment of a monthly allowance, which has been paid by the court to a child under 18 years of age or who has reached the age of 18 years for malpractice of a parent, is punishable by a financial penalty or imprisonment of up to one year. The bill you're introducing now has been replaced by the word 'consciously'. How do you feel about such a minor correction leading to the elimination of this problem, or should we in the Commission even more seriously seek other solutions together?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U118	I'd say this isn't a minor correction. If the number of letters is in the paragraph, it's really a minor correction, but if we take the content, it's not. The current law considers the non-payment of maintenance to be the basis for criminalisation, as it sees a vicious verdict. It has been undisputedly difficult, if not impossible, to determine the criminal record in practice. Man always finds the basis for confirming that the avoidance from paying a living is not malicious, but is linked to a difficult economic situation. It is very difficult to comply with this provision in the current wording. Because we're replacing the word 'criminal' with 'know-how', we're assuming a very big shift. We look forward to this, of course, for preventive purposes. Police officers confirm that when an application for non-payment of a living has been filed, the mere submission of an application has already led to a better payment of the parties involved. But in many cases, the police cannot process these statements because it must be malicious behaviour. Now if someone deliberately evades the payment of a living and is clearly aware that he actually has property, it will make it easier for the police and also for the prosecutor's office. I believe that, as a preventive measure, it will have a much greater impact and that people who do not pay a living will do it better.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U119	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U120	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! A legal person other than a natural person can commit any kind of misdemeanour. He can cheat, steal, cause harm to society, and like any vermin, he must be destroyed. So far, there was the possibility of imposing a judicial winding-up sentence, and the bill would abolish it. Doesn't the Ministry think that abolishing such a punishment will give society a signal that the company will not be punished, even though committing crimes has become part of its actions?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U121	I don't think so, for a number of reasons. First of all, a judicial winding-up essentially means that the person responsible no longer exists. When we talk about effective punishment, in the case of a legal person, the aim is not so much to put an end to its activities and to consider that the case is exhausted, but to give a signal to the legal person that he has broken the law and that it is criminally punishable. There is a penalty for this, and this penalty is economic. It is not very effective or practical to force the company to cease operations. After all, we can start a new business in 18 minutes. It is appropriate to impose a financial penalty that affects the company economically, and to recover this money.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U122	Thank you. Please, Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U123	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, Paragraph 113 is simple and laconical, but is it an alarm clock for entrepreneurs? I'm describing a situation that could easily happen anywhere. The company's territory is old and does not know when a hole is made that is uncovered. One employee falls in and dies. But no one told him to go there. Until today, it's like there was no one to punish. Do companies now need to be prepared to be able to impose heavy financial penalties on them in such cases?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U124	If the company is the owner of the property and the owner of the property, it must ensure good order on its property. If this is not guaranteed and because of this, someone's health has been damaged or someone has died, then the legal person must, of course, be responsible for it. The company must take into account that if it has not fulfilled its owner's obligation to maintain the territory, if necessary to construct boundaries, etc., and the consequences of its failure to act are similarly serious, then it will be followed by a penalty.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U125	Thank you. Please, Andres Anvelt, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U126	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! I ask one thing that is not directly reflected in this bill. This concerns children as potential secondary victims in cases of domestic violence. Also in various international documents, such as one convention, the name of which I do not remember at the moment, it says that it could be an aggravating circumstance or a separate composition. What's your attitude? On the list of aggravating circumstances, we have a number of circumstances, such as committing an offence during martial law or in a generally dangerous way. Couldn't this list include committing domestic violence in the presence of a child?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U127	This has been discussed and I believe that it is reasonable for us to discuss it further in the Committee on Legal Affairs. Of course, there is a large number of victims in the event of domestic violence. The victim is not only the one who has been physically injured, when the child is witnessing violence, he is also the victim of the crime. When a person violently assaulted his or her mate in the presence of children, the number of victims is greater, and this is already aggravating. Are we going to make this clear? I think we could discuss this in the Committee on Legal Affairs. I will remember this point, but right now, as you yourself know as a very well-informed person, § 121 on physical abuse is with this very wording.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U128	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U129	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! Paragraph 601 introduces into the Penal Code the principle of active remorse. On this basis, the court is given the discretion to reduce the sentence of the perpetrator or to exempt him or her from the sentence if the person voluntarily renounces the further commission of the act. For example, he agreed to take bribes, but later he saw that little was given and did not accept. Is the possibility for a judge to exercise the discretion allowed in the case of active repentance somehow regulated, or is it purely a question of the judge's intuition on which he proceeds, either from his experience in life or from something else?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U130	The Penal Code is complete. Do not take it in front of one paragraph added, or draw conclusions from its surface! As far as prosecution is concerned, after the case has been brought before the court, there are two parties to the competition proceedings. If the court finds that it is possible to use this section and one of the parties so requests, the court shall do so. The court will certainly be able to assess whether the application is justified and to be granted or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U131	Thank you. Please, Peter Võsa, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U132	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I really enjoyed the observation that the law was complete. But the law must also be applied in practice, either by law itself or in conjunction with other legislation. The law on law enforcement, adopted but not yet in force, states that pollution of air in a public place, such as a bus, is prohibited in a way that significantly disturbs another person. Today we are discussing a bill that should lay down what happens when a person still breaks the law and stinks in a bus. Please tell me what the police can do to these people in the future! What punishment can the Penal Code impose on people who stink on a bus?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U133	However, you must first read the same law of order. The Law Enforcement Act gives the General Orders Board, i.e. the police, the right to intervene if someone violates public order. At the same time, the Law on Law Enforcement also provides, as a principle, that as a general rule, a law enforcement body intervenes when a breach of public order has been committed in a disturbing manner to others. In other words, it must first be established that our fellow citizens are disturbed, and then we must think about how to punish them when it is necessary. Personally, as a police officer, I would limit myself to the warning provided for in the new Code of Misdemeanour Procedure. I'd ask a bad-scented person to get off the bus and clean up. Punishment is not always a goal. I believe that, in your example, too, it is not the aim of punishing a person because he has come between the gears of life and has not been able to wash himself. The goal is for everyone to be able to use public transport without being disturbed by anything. Therefore, I would not go into a debate on the details, but in general I do not see the need to punish a person in criminal or misdemeanour in this case.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U134	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U135	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I look at chapter 9, section 1, which deals with crimes against life. Paragraph 113 adds that killing, if committed by a legal person, is punishable by a financial penalty. Would you be willing to explain for a while exactly what this means? Is the legal person responsible for causing someone's death from negligence, or did it result in a supplement?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U136	Not only § 113 but also very many other paragraphs include the liability of a legal person. This has been a fundamental dispute over whether a legal person can be punished or not. In the course of three years' work, there is a clear understanding that if a legal person can be punished for an act, this liability provision will also be included in the Penal Code. This also gives rise to a catalogue of paragraphs in which the liability of a legal person is stated. There is a very simple example of killing: killing is ordered through a legal person and paid for using a legal person's account. And that's the liability of a legal person. Of course, there is also the perpetrator, who is directly responsible for the killing, but the legal person who ordered the act can also be punished. So in any case, the liability of the legal person is here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U137	Thank you. Please, Väino Linde!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U138	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! First of all, thank you for your honest and well-founded answers. I am certainly not opposed to decriminalisation, but I have read in the paper that when the bill comes into force as a law, it can happen that if you break into rural homes or summer homes where you do not live permanently, smash, break and steal, so that the damage is less than 200 euros, it is no longer a crime, but a misdemeanour. It may be, but knowing that there are very few policemen in the country, that they have their hands and feet full of work, the question arises as to how can these wrongdoings be investigated if it is not easy to apprehend those responsible? Those who suffer may feel that the country has sent them under a tree. Those who are guilty, however, may feel that there is nothing wrong with such actions. How about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U139	The issue concerns, in particular, the section on arbitrary intrusion. In the event of a self-righteous invasion, both the current law and the bill speak of the dwelling, but not only. Whether it is a cottage, a garden house, or just a house where there is very often no presence, is irrelevant to an arbitrary invasion. The question is whether the damage caused by the crime is at least EUR 200 or less. Breaking a window glass may not cause damage of at least EUR 200 and the total value of any broken items may not amount to EUR 200. The fact is that if the damage is less than EUR 200, we are talking about vandalism. It may not have happened anywhere in the summer house, it may have happened on the street, for example. If the car glass gets smashed in, it's just like vandalizing. The same is true of an arbitrary intrusion into the car, if the damage is less than 200 euros, i.e. the glass is smashed in, but it has run away immediately. I've read in the comments that in this case there's nothing you can do. But it can. This is an offence, and people have said that they will not be able to recover any damage. I can't quite agree with that. Even if we are talking about criminal proceedings, there is still a need to recover the damage caused. This can be done by civil action, the possibility of which remains. The question is, above all, whether the perpetrators will be detected. If they are discovered, the owner must bring a civil action against them to compensate for the damage caused. In this sense, I do not see a substantive problem. Plus, the extent of the damage can be defined in a so-called compounded form. By combining misdemeanour proceedings, criminal proceedings and civil proceedings, he can be punished and ordered to harm the perpetrator when he is identified and received.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U140	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U141	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, Paragraph 1191 provides an opportunity to punish a person who has participated in a fight. An example in the explanatory memorandum is that a group was drinking alcohol, and in the morning one person who was subjected to violence is dead. In this situation, the person's guilt is ruled out when he was put in a fight against his will. Is it meant to be what such a provision refers to a person who went off to break up a fight? Did he or did he not want to be in a fight?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U142	Of course, in every case, everything must be proved and the facts identified. If they can't be identified, then the charges can't go to court. You gave an example when only one person says he's going to divorce the fight, the rest say he was just in on it. If it is possible to clarify what really happened, of course, there will be no punishment for the person who went off to disband the fight. This paragraph is best explained in the explanatory memorandum. Drunk company discovers that one of them is dead when they don't remember anything in the morning. Then it's the question of who to punish. If there are such circumstances, it is, of course, undisputedly difficult to point the finger at one person and say that he is guilty. But, of course, it is possible to carry out an expert assessment of the charges and, as a result, they often reveal the truth.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U143	Thank you very much, Minister Hanno Pevkur. No more questions for the waitress. I invite Kalle Jents, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, to give a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U144	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed this draft on 14 January. Hanno Pevkur, Minister of Justice, Madis Timpson, his advisor, and Kristel Siitam-Nyiri, Deputy Chancellor, took part in the discussion. The Minister briefed the Commission on the fundamental changes, as he did today in this large Chamber. Let it be said in advance that since the draft law is very voluminous and it is also about amending the so-called 'branch laws', we were not able to go deeper into the changes to the various elements of the offence and the content of the new formations. We decided that we would do this between the first and second readings, we would wait for all the suggestions for improvement, as well as the ideas and ideas of interest groups, and, depending on how many there are, we would move forward by theme. But we have come to realize that this is undoubtedly a very good draft. Several concepts become much more specific, the compositions become more understandable. I will not repeat everything, the Minister has already spoken of fundamental changes. The Commission decided to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda for the plenary session on 29 January, that the deadline for amendments be set at 5 p.m. on 12 February and that Mr Jents be appointed as rapporteur. All these proposals were made by consensus.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U145	Thank you. There's a question for you. Väino Linde, please, your second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U146	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! They say a tantrum is about God, a stumped devil. I will ask you, as rapporteur for the Commission, whether the Commission, when preparing the draft, also raised the issue that I asked the Minister about earlier. I'm thinking about breaking and entering country homes or summer homes that aren't permanent dwellings. How can we prove to the victims that the state cares about them and that those responsible receive what they deserve? Could any provision be slightly amended in relation to the original text of the draft text or is it not appropriate?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U147	Even if there is no proposal for improvement in this regard, it is still appropriate for the Commission to discuss all the issues that sounded here today in the round of questions and answers and which have been raised in the media. One is the limit of wrongdoing and crime in the case of theft, and the other is precisely the subject of the invasion. We have not yet discussed this in the Commission, but I think there are two moments. First of all, it qualifies as a crime if violence is used. What we mean by violence can be discussed a little bit. Whether violence is just a physical attack on someone or whether it is, for example, breaking down a door when a room is invaded. It could be a misdemeanor when an uninvited drunken villager appears in a cottage or, for example, in a garage, and doesn't go away. As it says here, it's a real misdemeanor. But if someone breaks into the cottage and he misses theft because he just couldn't steal anything, it's definitely a criminal offence. So here's the point of weighing. The second thing is the question of living space. I don't know, isn't this also an interpretation of the place of the summer house still lives, many people live there for a large part of the year. The whole bill certainly needs a thorough debate, and I think we will find places with question marks.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U148	Thank you. Please, Valdo Randpere!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U149	Good waitress! I simply ask the question, for the sake of updating and improving the verbatim, that you did not mention whether the committee will also make some proposals to the Chamber of the Riigikogu to do with its first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U150	Thank you. A good colleague, you see, in my case, inexperience still strikes. The Commission proposes by consensus to conclude the first reading. I have already informed you of other Commission decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U151	Thank you very much, Kalle Jents. No more questions for the waitress. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 554. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 554 amendments. 12 February at 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U152	The next item is the first reading of the draft law on the amendment of family law initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. Hanno Pevkuri, Minister of Justice of the Chair, for presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U153	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! As with the previous draft, this draft is certainly a very good one and also a very necessary one. Of course, there is no news for those in this Chamber that ministries are watching and, after a certain period of time, analysing how one or the other law works, what bottlenecks have emerged and whether there are provisions that can be improved. In the case of the Family Act, which entered into force on 1 July 2010, the same has been the case. The purpose of this draft was to clarify and clarify the family law in the light of the implementation problems encountered during the first three years of validity of the law and to correct minor errors in order to ensure the smooth functioning of the law and the unambiguousness of the provisions. To this end, an analysis of the issues related to the implementation of the Family Law was sent to the various authorities in 2012 (let us call it a concept in the future). This concept contained chapter by chapter the provisions which, according to the Ministry of Justice, have raised the most questions and problems in practice and proposed options for further action. In mid-2013, we sent the draft law amending the family law and related amendments to other laws to the coordination round. By now, the bill has reached the next stage, i.e. before you. I'll give you an overview of the major changes. First, differences in legal consequences are laid down where the spouses have been of the same sex as a result of a change of sex during the marriage. In such a case, the marriage shall be deemed to be valid until the date of entry into force of the declaration of invalidity and the legal effects shall be analogous to the situation in which the marriage terminates upon the entry into force of the declaration of invalidity. The right to bring an action for annulment of a marriage shall be conferred on the Minister. Secondly, the draft complements the grounds for excluding the fatherhood of the child's mother's spouse. According to the amendment, the presumption of paternity of the spouse does not apply in addition to the current joint declaration of the spouses, even if the child has been conceived by another man and the other man accepts paternity. Thus, the mother no longer needs the consent of her husband so that the man who actually conceived the child can actually embrace paternity. Thirdly, the regulation of maintenance obligations is amended. The order of the persons entitled to maintenance and of the survivors shall be specified. In the order of the entitled persons, the position of the divorced spouse caring for the child, the parent entitled to receive maintenance from the birth of the child and the divorced spouse shall be established. The order of the maintenance staff shall determine the position of the person obliged to provide maintenance from the birth of the child and shall clarify the ranking of the adopter and the biological parent for maintenance purposes in a situation where the parent has consented to adoption. Fourthly, the regulation of the replacement obligation arising under the maintenance obligation will be clarified in order to ensure that the replacement obligation of other relatives also arises more clearly for the maintenance of the minor's child if the parent of the minor's child cannot be sued for maintenance or if it is excessively difficult to obtain maintenance or recovery from him. The regulation of the replacement obligation also covers the maintenance obligation of the spouse, divorced spouse and debtor responsible for the birth of the child, where maintenance cannot be obtained from the debtor or is extremely difficult to achieve. It also lays down the basis for the right of recovery applicable in this case, which confers the right of recovery both for and against the persons mentioned above. There is an exception to the joint right of representation of parents enjoying joint custody, and the parent is allowed to represent the child alone in the activities of the child's everyday life. A general principle is also included which explains that custody parents may agree to organise the exercise of the joint right of establishment. In this context, the presumption of the consent of the second parent is excluded from the law if the parent represents the child alone, which was applicable in cases not yet defined. If a municipality or city government is to be appointed as guardian of a minor or an adult, it will be possible for the court to consider which municipality or city government is most closely connected with the person instead of following the entry in the population register. An example list is also included in the Act, which can be considered to be a stronger link. Finally, I would point out that, by way of exception, the guardian will be given the opportunity to conduct securities transactions on behalf of the guardian without the consent of the court if he has given these securities to the guardian for his own funds. The regulation will also extend to future securities transactions on the account of securities acquired in this way. I believe that you have now received an overview of the main changes to the draft, or even any changes. We certainly support the Committee on Legal Affairs' proposal to conclude the first reading and move forward with the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U154	Thank you. Let's get to the questioning! Peter Võsa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U155	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, This law nicely regulates the situation when one parent changes his or her sex. It is possible, on the basis of this law, to end the same-sex life together in a concrete and perhaps even quite cruel way. But if there is such a vital situation that both parents have changed their sex, how does the law solve it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U156	If both persons have changed their sex and officially changed their personal identification code, it means that their marriage is insignificant. They have to remarriage. Their marriage is still possible, however, because one has a husband's social security number and the other has a wife's social security number. § 1 of the Family Act states that marriage is to be concluded between a man and a woman and that if they are to be a man and a woman before the eyes of the law, either biologically or as a result of gender change, it means that they are able to enter into a legal marriage.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U157	Thank you. Please, Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U158	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! I also have a question about § 9 (1). What has caused this change? Has it appeared that this point has often been exploited or that cases have been initiated? The subject has been relatively little covered by the press. According to the media, there have been only a few cases per year, from ordinary citizens to the Chancellor of the Ministry, but no particular problems have been heard. What has caused this change? And if it really is a family with children and a parenting family, and one of them changes sex, why can't their marriage continue? Why would it stop because of a sex change if they wanted to keep it that way?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U159	They have no obstacles to continuing to live together. But § 1 of the current Family Act states that marriage is to be concluded between a man and a woman. This is an imperative requirement, and it means that if this predicament of marriage has fallen away, or it is not a man or a woman, then marriage cannot exist between these two people. Their marriage must be annulled.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U160	Thank you. Please, Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U161	Thank you, Madam President. The last questioner asked the question I had. But, Minister, when are we going to resolve this situation? When are we gonna legitimize the union of two persons of the same sex? What's the plan for the Justice Department? [[Summing.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U162	Thank you. At this point, it would be appropriate to look around the hall at what is happening. But I will answer this question in response to my subjective opinion and I can also say the opinion of the Reform Party. The Reform Party has, some time ago, approved the gender-neutral version of the Cohabitation Act or, let's say, continued to deal with it. It is clear that there is no consensus in the government coalition in this regard, as in any other subject, and therefore the Cohabitation Act has not been actively dealt with. If Parliament has a desire to deal with the Cohabitation Act or the Partnership Act or, like the European Court of Human Rights judgment, there is a court settlement in Estonia at some point, according to which § 1 of the Family Act is contrary to the Constitution for some reason, then both the Grand Hall of the Riigikogu and the Government of the Republic are in a state in which this issue needs to be discussed. That's the state of affairs right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U163	Thank you. Please, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U164	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I'm looking at a lumpy and grey colleague Igor Gräzini next to this, and I'm thinking about his struggle with the criminal interest in SMS loans and all that logic. For years, no solution has been found, and the man has gone gray. In family law, we now regulate family relationships and all that. I have such a direct question as to what great need we still have for this now. We can get this regulation done quickly, but it's going to take years for something urgent. Generations change and people get old, but the solutions don't seem to be anywhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U165	Good Aivar Riisalu! The solutions for SMS loans also seem and maybe are closer than you think. In the case of SMS loans, there are issues in the administration of several ministries. With regard to the interest ceiling, my proposal is to bring the percentage rate of charge down significantly. The plan is to do so in the near future, either directly through Parliament, using your options, or through the government or through the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. I'm guessing this rate could be even 50%. But this debate does not concern the draft that we are currently facing. I would like to discuss with you on SMS loans and the percentage rate of charge, but I am still going back to the family law. When we did the family law analysis, we went through it from one end to the next. And a review from the top to the bottom means that when we receive observations from the coordination circle, we need to consider them and take many into account. In practice, there may be problems in the area you have asked for and there must be no legal uncertainty. In the case of SMS loans, there is legal clarity: the three-month percentage rate of charge of Eesti Pank has been set through civil procedure. It can't be higher. If he's higher, he's nothing. However, this amendment to the Family Act was due to legal clarity. If it is a family with a man and a woman, one of whom changes sex, and as a result two or two women are legally married, it is against the law and we do not have any regulation on what to do in such a case. That's why we have to write into the law that marriage is nothing in this case. That's the answer to your question why it's been dealt with. But I assure you, SMS loans will also be dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U166	Thank you. Please, Imre Sooäär, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U167	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, You referred to the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights in response to the question put by the Olga Stranger. If we lay down restrictive conditions in paragraph 1 of § 9, perhaps someone will turn to the human rights court. Is this provision there holding water or might it be regarded as discrimination? And how many people are affected by this problem at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U168	I am not answering the last part of the question because I really do not know how many people it concerns. So much I know that there have been isolated cases in practice where a married person has changed his or her sex and, as a result, there has been a need to declare marriage null and void. There have been very few of these cases. But it's hard to appreciate how many people this theoretically could touch. As far as the European Court of Human Rights is concerned, when there is a dispute, in my opinion, the question is, not in § 9, whether or not it sets out a condition which restricts human rights, but in § 1, on which § 9 is based, and which says that marriage is to be concluded between a man and a woman. The European Court of Human Rights has not dealt with the Institute of Marriage; it has dealt with life together. The most recent ruling in this court states that if a state has a regulated partnership, it cannot apply only to persons of different sexes. The regulation of life together must apply to everyone. That's the difference. The Estonian Family Act deals with marriage as an institute and marriage can only be a man and a woman. So it's different things. At the same time, it cannot be ruled out that someone from Estonia is addressing the European Court of Human Rights. The last assumption is, of course, that the matter will be dealt with before the three courts in Estonia. In some cases constitutional review can go directly to the Supreme Court after the administrative court, then it can handle two stages. But these are already details. Our Supreme Court and then the European Court of Human Rights must tell us whether Article 1 of the Family Law of the Republic of Estonia is in accordance with the Estonian Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U169	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U170	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. When this bill becomes a law, the rights of parents will also be enshrined in an undertaking such as gender change. Parents are likely to have the right to divorce or to change sex, but are children's rights also in this context? Family law says that parents are obliged to raise children to be full citizens, but how is such a process ensured that children do not suffer mental trauma?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U171	I think the kids are safe. If they are married and have children together, they will likely cultivate them according to their best knowledge and skills. It is not appropriate, in my opinion, to link this to the sex of persons. After all, we have both single fathers and single mothers, and we could theoretically raise the question of whether it is a proper family or not. I don't see a problem in that sense. If humans are determined to have offspring, they will certainly do their utmost to give them the best possible upbringing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U172	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Minister of Justice Hanno Pevkur. Mr Valdo Randpere, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs of the Chair, for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U173	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed this very good draft at its meeting on 14 January. Hanno Pevkur, Minister of Justice, Madis Timpson, and Susann Mikli, Adviser to the Department of Private Law also participated. When discussing the draft, the Commission was also most excited and asked questions about the same gender change issue. We discussed this, and I will specify a little bit about the Minister of Justice who answered Olga Soldier's question. I have a feeling Olga wanted to know if Estonia was going to legitimise the same-sex marriage. The Minister spoke about the same-sex partnership and partnership law, which could be gender-neutral, also because the European Court of Justice has decided so. This difference has therefore been clarified. The Reform Party has never approved a draft on same-sex marriage; we have never gone back or forward with it. This kind of thing can only happen in Estonia if the Estonian people so wish. I don't know when that's gonna happen. But in my opinion, the most important points of the draft were others, even though they caused less excitement in the Commission. I'll get some of them out. First, there is a change in how to dispose of, use, and manage the separation of couples. So far, it has been regulated in such a way that the separate asset is a separate asset and the owner of the asset decides what it will do with it. There is now an exception to the separate assets used as housing. This can no longer be decided by the owner of the separate assets alone; he or she must have the consent of the spouse to engage in transactions. I think it's positive. Secondly, the Minister has already mentioned this in passing, but I would like to emphasise this, because I think this is a very good amendment. In fact, parents as guardians are currently prohibited from doing securities transactions for children without the consent of the court, while children cannot do so in Estonia because of their age. Another nonsense in the current law is the mention of some securities that parents can still make transactions with, and these are particularly risk-free bonds issued in the European Union. That's a provision I laughed at right here on the remote a year ago. It really should be changed. Lawyers may not always share the subtleties of the economy as to why they otherwise labeled certain bonds as risk-free a few years ago. The events of recent years have shown that bonds issued by European Union countries are not risk-free and, in fact, no other security is risk-free either. So it's misleading to use such a definition in legal terms. After the debate, we decided in the Commission to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda for the plenary session on 29 January. We also propose that the first reading be stopped and that the deadline for amendments be set at 17 February 2014. Valdo Randpere was appointed rapporteur. All the decisions were made by consensus, and here we are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U174	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U175	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! Did the Commission mention that this issue could be dealt with more widely by the Committee on Social Affairs? There are a lot of social issues here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U176	In itself, that is a good question. May I also ask the Minister of Justice for your attention? Hanno, I want you to listen too! Helmen asked whether we discussed in the Commission that perhaps the Committee on Social Affairs could discuss this issue more. I do not want to express my position directly, but in the legislation of other countries, all laws on social matters have been tried, for example, by family law, legislation on compensation for incapacity for work, labour law, etc., to be integrated into a single code. I do not know whether Estonia has such a plan or not. On our shelf, there have been very large new drafts from the Ministry of Justice. Perhaps this is also one of the lines of work that Estonia should have. In principle, we can discuss whether to make laws by ministry or by area of life. However, this particular issue was not discussed in the Committee on Legal Affairs. Next time, ask the Minister of Justice what their plans are.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U177	Thank you. Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U178	Dear waitress, You said that same-sex marriages would take place in Estonia if the Estonian people wanted to. Is that your personal position or the opinion of the Commission that the law will be the things that the people want in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U179	It's just my old knowledge of the Faculty of Law, where I well remembered that legislation reflects society and society's established ethical and legal perceptions. And if there is no support for any law in the Estonian population, I find it very difficult to bring it into practice against the will of the people.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U180	Thank you. Please, Jaak Allik, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U181	Dear waitress, If the Committee on Legal Affairs were to receive a draft which would provide for the restoration of the death penalty in Estonia, would you then examine the opinion of the people on this matter or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U182	Good question! In my opinion, we are not only based today on what is acceptable or unacceptable in Estonian society, but also on general European values. And we have accepted that the death penalty is not a reasonable form of punishment. If such a proposal were to come to the Committee on Legal Affairs, of course we should discuss it, but I do not see a particular perspective on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U183	Thank you. Please, Olga Soldier, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U184	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, I am sorry that my question does not concern this bill, but you said that the drafts, which have the support of the population, could become laws. I think that when you ask people if they support an increase in child support, almost 100% would say that they do. Then why doesn't the coalition go this way and make such a decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U185	First of all, you're translating my words a little crooked. Secondly, I'm not sure your statistics are quite correct. I'm not sure 100% of people support it. This debate has been held very warmly, and this is a question that all political parties have asked their voters. It has also been examined whether there should be even grants or needs-based grants. There's a lot of nuances. In answer to you, an hour or two ago, there were questions in this briefing about how the state should solve the problem of paying a living allowance. Should the state intervene or not, and should the state lift this and the other? If you have a proposal to increase child benefit or even a living allowance, please show us what we are doing it for! There are, of course, many very nice proposals that politicians would like to make, especially before the elections. I'd love to share them, but we have limited resources and we have to give up something. Let's take the same allowance thing. Okay, the state is making a fund, but are we reducing child support, for example, or what are we doing it for?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U186	Thank you very much. No more questions for the waitress. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 546. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft. 12 February at 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U187	Our seventh item on the agenda today is the first reading of the draft law on the amendment of the Commercial Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 549. To present the speech chair, Minister of Justice Hanno Pevkuri!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U188	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Members of the Hääd Riigikogu! That's a very good bill. That's a really good bill! And it is good that when shaping the business environment in Estonia, we sometimes have to look at the question of what we can do to make it reasonable for companies to deliver here and for the Estonian business environment to be attractive. One major reason why the Estonian business environment is not as attractive as it could or could be is that our liquidation procedures are relatively long. They are not as long as they are in many other European countries, however. Consequently, it is proposed to amend the Commercial Code and some other law in order to enable the assets of a private limited company and a public limited company to be merged with the assets of its sole sole shareholder, as of 1 January 2015. The new merger procedure will allow a simpler and faster winding-up of a private limited company or a public limited company compared to the normal winding-up procedure. The aim of this amendment would be, inter alia, to align the Commercial Code with the Directive of 5 April 2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council on mergers of public limited liability companies. The draft also complements the provisions on court registers. But now a little bit more specific. The draft provides for the simplified winding-up of a private limited company or a public limited company in such a way that the company's assets are merged with those of the company's sole proprietor or shareholder. In addition, a merger is possible if the participation is part of the common property of the spouses. In the event of a merger, the property of the association will be transferred to the natural person in accordance with the general succession procedure and the association will cease to exist. If the connecting natural person acts as a self-employed person, the assets will not be included in his business assets in the accounts, but he will later be able to use the assets in business. Since the purpose of the new merger procedure is only to facilitate the winding-up of the company and not to facilitate the change in the form of business, the continuation of activities in the form of a self-employed person through the new merger procedure, the continuation of activities in the form of a private limited-liability company or a public limited-liability company in the form of a self-employed person will not be encouraged separately. The transfer of assets to a natural person in the course of a merger shall be taxed in principle in the same way as the transfer of assets to shareholders in the event of liquidation of the company. To this end, two amendments to the Income Tax Act developed by the Ministry of Finance are included in the draft. As a result of the merger, the private limited company and the limited company do not have to conduct winding-up proceedings, which may be replaced by a faster merger procedure. Instead of six to eight months, this could take place in two months' time. At the same time, the merger entails the unlimited personal liability of the natural person for the obligations of the association being acquired. The amendments are planned to enter into force on 1 January 2015, as the e-business register, e-notar and entrepreneurial portal also need development work. It would also be reasonable for tax legislation to enter into force at the beginning of the calendar year. As I mentioned earlier, our business code is being brought into line with the directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, the number of which was not mentioned. It is 2011/35/EU and the Directive concerns mergers of public limited liability companies. The amendment concerns the non-responsibility of the management of the company to be merged for the damage caused to the shareholders of the association by the mispreparation and conduct of the merger. However, only if the association to be merged is 100% subsidiary of the acquiring association. Finally, I will look at the changes to the court records for a moment. A legal basis shall be established for carrying out the supervisory procedures across the registry area. The current law allows the registrar to enter the register across the area of the register, but does not regulate the operation of regulations in the supervisory procedure (e.g. penalty warning, fine regulation, deletion from the register, compulsory closure warning) across the area of the register. This would be necessary, however, because it ensures a uniform workload between all processing agents across Estonia. The paper documents submitted to the registrar shall also be regulated. Under the current law, documents may be submitted to the registrar on paper or by electronic means. Consequently, files on paper, partly on paper and partly on electronic or only electronically shall be kept in the registry departments. In order to ensure a full electronic register procedure, the registry departments shall digitise all paper documents and existing paper files submitted. This is necessary for the cross-registry process as well as for the electronic consultation of files. One of the objectives of digitising files is also the release of large paper archives. There is no need for paper archives if all documents are available electronically. In order not to require the registry departments to maintain a double archive of the current paper archive and the electronic document database resulting from digitisation, the draft stipulates that the submitted paper documents must be digitised. The paper documents submitted shall be returned from the Registry Department on site or sent to the undertaking by simple mail. The deadline for processing the application will also be specified. The bill specifies that if the application is submitted to the Registry department after the end of the working day but before midnight, on a day of rest or on a public holiday, the working day following that in which the application is submitted shall be deemed to be the day following that in which the application is submitted. The amendment will help to rule out a situation where the time limit for proceedings is exceeded on the grounds that not all applications submitted will be processed within one working day. The proposal is also to abolish the disclosure of invalid business and business prohibitions. The Data Protection Inspectorate has drawn the Ministry's attention to the fact that the disclosure of invalid business and business prohibitions is not in accordance with the current legal order and that the disclosure of the prohibition should be based on the period of validity of the prohibition. It is generally reasonable to listen to the Data Protection Inspectorate. We also propose to extend the competence of the Registrar in the processing of simpler documents. Both the registration of the beginning and the end of the financial year and the operations related to the updating of the data relating to the activity are activities which do not require the competence of the assistant judge, and are also managed by the Registrars. However, before I conclude, I would like to point out that a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is needed for the adoption of the draft, as the draft also amends the provisions on legal proceedings. This requirement is known to stem from the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. With this little distraction, I'm gonna finish. I certainly support the Committee on Legal Affairs' proposal to conclude the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U189	Thank you. Please, Siim Kabrits!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U190	Thank you, President of the sitting. Minister, thank you very much. Very positive that the paper archives of the business register become digital, that all documents are digitised. Paragraph 12 of the Accounting Act provides for the maintenance of the original documents for seven years. Would it be reasonable to give businesses the possibility that, if the original document is in paper form, it can be digitised and stored in digital form for seven years? In this way, the concerns of businesses in maintaining large-scale documents could be reduced.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U191	I do not know the position of the Minister of Finance and the general opinion of the government, but it seems to me to be a very reasonable idea. The Accounting Act, however, is maintained by the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance should seriously consider it. I don't see any obstacle. If the State keeps its data in electronic form, why should it not be economic operators to store data with a digital seal? If there's any particular reason, you should know. But if the documents are scanned and digitally signed, then a member of the board or accountant takes responsibility for the accuracy of the documents. Why not, you should consider it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U192	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I ask Igor Gräzini, member of the Legal Affairs Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U193	Thank you. First, a very important medical observation. Everyone look out the window, because when I cough, you get sick, I have the flu. Stay back and don't ask! As regards the work of the Riigikogu committee, we discussed the draft as a third point on Tuesday 14 January. In addition to the members of the committee, Elo Madiste, Chief Specialist of the Ministry of Finance, was present. At the end of the debate, we proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda today and that the first reading be closed. The deadline for amendments could be 12.02.2014 at 5 p.m. Igor Gräzin was appointed rapporteur by consensus. You have the text of the bill. I would like to draw attention to two very interesting points. The first is that although it is not a very complicated law, it is an extremely long and capital explanatory statement. It's a case where the explanatory statement could have been half as short and simpler, but at least it understands what's wanted to say here. And another fact: I would like to draw attention to the correlation tables and coordination tables of the draft explanatory memorandum to the amendment of the Commercial Code and, in this respect, to the draft law amending other laws. It is noteworthy that in nine cases out of ten, all the ideas that have been put forward have been taken into account. In other words, this is largely a human and business-friendly law, where there are no very serious problems. The Minister mentioned a number of very important points here, which we also discussed in an hour. I would like to draw attention to a few of the most important things that are important to our businessmen. Firstly, in the case of any business in any country, it is normal that, apart from anything else, there may be a procedure such as bankruptcy and liquidation. Moreover, it has been said that a company that has not been bankrupt three times or a business that has not been wound up three times is simply not credible. So this is a perfectly normal business procedure, which, unfortunately, takes a lot of time, not to mention the cost of the nerves. If everything goes as stated in the bill, instead of six months in the middle, the company will be wound up in two months. This is the first very important change. Secondly, the Minister did not directly mention this, but it is very important to draw attention to another moment. If liquidation takes place quickly, for example within two months, who will scare the most about it? This scares the creditor first of all. After all, the creditor's risk increases by that. The longer the liquidation period, the longer the time to settle the matter and the longer the hope of getting the money. The Minister did not say much about this, but the creditor's interests are fully protected in this draft. The entire procedure will only take place if this protection is guaranteed. The last point that was pointed out here in one question is that very many papers are being digitalised. If it goes well and Jürgen doesn't fight Ligi, then the storage period that Siim talked about is likely to remain seven months for the digital format as well. So the problem of excessive paperwork disappears. The result is that the normal business procedure, called liquidation, will be simpler, more humane, more guaranteed, and it will certainly contribute to the improvement of our business environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U194	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline of 12 February at 5 p.m. for the submission of the 549 amendments. The first reading is closed and the seventh item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U195	We will move to the eighth item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic and, in this connection, the amendment of other laws. I ask the Minister of Justice, Hanno Pevkur, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U196	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The bill's getting better and better. This is also a very good bill, and a great many people have to be thanked for it. In particular, I would like to highlight the Bar Association, which has helped to deal with this issue. In terms of time savings, it is unwise to count all the institutions that have contributed to this, but in any case this draft concerns many. If anyone has any interest involved in this bill, take note of the explanatory statement and check it out. Now let's get down to business. As the title says, the draft before you primarily concerns civil proceedings. Its initiation was due to the fact that the determination of the costs of proceedings in civil proceedings lasts unreasonablely long. The Ministry has carried out a relevant analysis, which showed that the average duration of the determination of the costs of the proceedings was 309 days in the case of judgments which entered into force in 2012. It's ten months! In short, this state of affairs was not reasonable and so the task set out at the beginning of last year could be resolved. The purpose of the draft is to create the possibility for procedural costs to be determined and cleared from the counterparty in civil proceedings much faster than has been the case so far. The current procedure for determining the costs of proceedings following the entry into force of the final decision in the main proceedings in a separate case shall be amended. Further, the costs of the proceedings shall be determined in the context of the legal proceedings involving the costs. It also aims to improve and harmonise the quality of the determination of procedural costs. As a result of the determination of costs in the same procedure as the main proceedings, the draft sets out the costs to be determined by the judge of the main proceedings. In the meantime, the cases for determining costs were largely settled by the assistant judges. Now, briefly, what this could look like in the future. As a first and most important amendment, instead of the current procedure without a separate action, the draft sets out the costs to be determined in the same procedure as the main case. Secondly, the list of costs and the cost documents shall be submitted to the court before the end of the litigation or, in the written procedure, within a time limit set by the court, in respect of the costs incurred at each instance in that instance. Expenditure relating to the last sitting may be submitted to the Court within three working days of the hearing. If the cost documents are not submitted to the court by the time limit, the court shall determine only the costs of the proceedings which are shown to be borne by the documents in the case. Currently, expenditure documents are known to be presented in a separate procedure. I also think it is important that determining costs in the context of the same procedure as the basic issue also entails more efficient means of service of expenditure documents. The draft shall re-establish the possibility of service by sending procedural documents. I have already mentioned this, but I will repeat the relatively important amendment that if, until now, the cases of cost fixing were settled by the assistant judges, then in the future the judges will do so. Under the established regulation, the financial amount of procedural costs may be determined in two stages of the procedure. First of all, if the county court determines the costs in the judgment and the judgment is appealed, the costs shall also be determined by any court of higher instance dealing with the complaint. Secondly, in the event that the Court does not determine the financial amount of the costs in the judgment, the costs are also not determined by the High Court handling the appeal. In such a case, the amount of the costs shall be determined by the court hearing the case within a reasonable period following the entry into force of the judgment or order closing the proceedings relating to the settlement of the dispute. The land court may not determine the costs in the judgment if the court considers that it would take such time as to prevent the main case from being settled. The regulation that is being created should motivate the county court to determine the costs already in the judgment, because if the county court does not do so and the case is appealed against, the county court will have to determine the costs of other judicial procedures at a later stage. At this point, it is quite appropriate to end the presentation of this draft, which is not very extensive, but very important. I certainly support the proposal of the Committee on Legal Affairs to conclude the first reading of the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U197	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I now ask Andres Anvelt, Member of the Legal Affairs Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U198	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister of Justice! In characterising the bill, I have no choice but to agree with the Minister of Justice. Indeed, in civil proceedings, the time of delivery of the material relating to the action has so far been a problem. The Minister spoke about an average of ten months, but this analysis says that it has been stretched to up to four and a half years, and there have also been cases of this kind. Now to our hearing. This took place on 14 January, and in addition to the members of the Commission and the Minister of Justice, who briefly presented the draft, Minister Madis Timpson and Adviser Stella Johanson to the Department of Private Law of the Ministry of Justice were present. The Minister gave an overview of the background to the draft and the current situation. Listening to this, the Commission took the following decisions: It was proposed that the draft be placed on the agenda of today's plenary session, that the first reading be closed, that the deadline for amendments be set at 5 p.m. on 12 February and that Mr Anvelt be appointed as rapporteur before you. All the proposals were made by consensus. I hope that when this draft becomes a law, the people's resentment will often ease the protracted processes in civil court. The removal of the damage will certainly become more objective, as judges will take these decisions instead of the assistance of judges. It is also important to note that the Minister has already said this, but I also stress that the costs of court proceedings are indeed announced in advance. This reduces the possibility of abuse of these costs and the possibility that the defendant, or the person causing the damage, would somehow begin to offset the damage caused by him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U199	Any questions? No questions, I thank the waitress! Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 545 amendments. 12 February at 5 p.m. The first reading is closed and the eighth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U200	We will move on to the ninth item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the Law on the Courts instituted by the Government of the Republic and, in this connection, the draft law amending other laws. I would like the Minister of Justice, Hanno Pevkuri, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U201	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! This is the last bill I'm presenting to you today. And again, I am pleased to see that this is a very good draft. Its purpose is to organise court records and simplify the provisions on becoming assistant judges. The following is an overview of the main changes. First of all, with regard to court records. In view of both the current and planned changes in information technology in the judicial system, it is natural that judicial registers will also be developed organisationally. Since the register is to a large extent kept electronically, it is possible to restructure the registers in such a way that the departments, which are currently structural units of the different courts, will be subject to a single county court. It is clear that such an amendment will allow more efficient management and administration of judicial registers, while maintaining legal certainty and independence from executive power. There are currently four registration departments and real estate departments in Estonia: Harju, Pärnu, Tartu and Viru County Courts. According to the draft, one registry department and one real estate department will remain in Estonia, but both will have regional services. This means that all existing departments will remain physically in the same locations and will be renamed regional services. After careful consideration of the possible locations of the register and taking into account various aspects, in cooperation with the Court of Justice Advisory Board, it was decided to hand over the management of the real estate districts and registry departments located at different courts from 1 January 2015 to the Tartu County Court. As registration will be brought under the jurisdiction of a county court, the draft exempts the directors of the courts of other county courts from dealing with the administration of the register and creates the possibility to appoint a single director of the court who will only handle the administration of the registers. The process of dealing with the case-files is planned to follow the current rules, which means that the current assistant judges will remain in office and continue to deal with the case-files, but they will not be given a wider range of justice-related tasks, such as determining procedural costs. The Courts of Justice are supported by the Advocates-General, whose recruitment, as we know, started in the first half of last year. And now for the second change. It will be easier to apply for the appointment of judges, although their qualification requirements will not be reduced. At present, it is relatively time-consuming and costly to complete the preparatory service, and in order to achieve this, the candidate must have left the previous job. In the future, the preparatory service for the assistance of the judge will be replaced by the completion of the preparatory programme, which will allow a person to be recruited more quickly for the post of free assistant judge and will allow those wishing to take part in the competition to continue their current job until the new appointment. This will hopefully also bring more candidates to the competition, from whom you can choose the best. In order to ensure flexibility, the competition committee will be able to draw up a preparatory plan taking into account the individual abilities, characteristics and experience of each person. Those who wish to be assisted by a judge with sufficient experience may also be exempted from the preparatory plan. Nevertheless, the knowledge of individuals shall be verified in the framework of a public competition. This ensures that those wishing to be appointed have the necessary knowledge and skills. We are confident that, although it will be easier to become a judge, the quality of the work of the registers will not decline, as the requirements for the assistance of the judge will remain the same and the decision-making process will not change in principle. We support the proposal of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to conclude the first reading and, of course, to become the law on this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U202	Minister, thank you. There are no questions. I now ask Väino Linde, member of the Constitutional Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U203	Greetings to you, honourable members of the Riigikogu! Honourable President! Minister of Justice! The Committee on Constitutional Affairs is pleased that the Minister supports our proposals for further processing of this draft. 21 January was the day of the meeting of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu, where we discussed this draft as the fourth item on the agenda. Ultimately, we made the necessary procedural decisions by consensus. Firstly, it would be nice for this draft to be placed on the agenda of today's sitting. It's already done. Secondly, the proposal was also to close the first reading by consensus today, and the deadline for amendments could be ten working days. The deadline would therefore end on February 12, a quarter hour five. We also looked more closely at the text of this draft at the Commission meeting. The Minister first gave us an overview of the reasons why the draft was submitted. Indeed, the aim is to regulate the amendment of the Law of the Courts and, in connection with it, of other laws, in particular as regards the organisation of the judicial registers and the regulation of the preparatory services for the assistance of judges. And there are other relevant changes to other matters. It was said in the Commission that keeping registers is, at least, for the majority of the members of the Commission, such an executive activity, which is not very much involved in the administration of justice. The question arises as to whether it is appropriate to observe all this beauty in court. But historically this has been the case, and the majority of the government thinks that this is the way forward. The Estonian business community is also aware that these registers could be present at the courts. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also acknowledged that the position of the draft text to leave business registers and other registers with the courts is of utmost relevance. It is also appropriate that in the end, the Real Estate Department and the Registry Department are given the head of a county court, the Tartu County Court. Why the Tartu County Court? The Courts' administration council had reached such a position, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs felt that this approach was the right one. What else can we say about this bill? Provision is made for the possibility that the additional social guarantee that the current judicial assistants have will disappear after the implementation of this law. This is the payment of six months' salary in the event of redundancy. There were also changes to the fact that a court, the Tartu County Court, will deal with court records. In addition to the current position of director of justice, it is still too early to predict what will happen to those workers who will deal with these matters in other courts in our beloved Estonia. They may remain in office, but some changes may also have to be made. All of this will be revealed in the course of further work once the law has been passed and implemented. A good colleague in the Commission meeting referred to the fact that there is one sentence on page 4 of the explanatory memorandum that may seem offensive to some judicial officials. This sentence is that judges' assistants must become qualified and effectively employed specialists. It's kind of a conclusion that they're not now. But it certainly is, the Commission has no doubt about that. The Minister admitted that the wording of this sentence is not really appropriate; it is too sharp. The status of judicial assistance will certainly be maintained. That was also explained to us by the Minister. According to the draft law, the regulation on the appointment of a senior lawyer is included in the law. This motivates the Advocates-General to increase their qualifications, which also means a little higher wages. In addition, the draft concerns the candidates for the judicial office, and I am referring to the candidate judges. It is not news to us that a security check must be carried out on a candidate who is a judge, and only after that can a person be appointed a judge if other conditions are met. According to the current law, the relevant deadline is nine months, but the draft proposes that the candidate may become a judge within the three years following the security clearance. It was originally planned for five years, but eventually it was thought to be too much. Some members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs even felt that the three-year period was too long, and at that time one comma of another could happen in a person's life, and this calls into question the conclusions of the security clearance. It was clarified that this verification could be carried out again if there were doubts or a direct basis. As a general rule, the Commission does not exclude the submission of an amendment to provide for a shorter period instead of three years. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also mentioned what will become of the law of our courts as a whole. During the previous Riigikogu, it was almost already processed, but in the end it did not work out. We have a major judicial reform, as in frozen standby, and the Minister of Justice expressed his opinion that the Riigikogu will hardly be able to deal with this in the course of the year that we have until the next regular parliamentary elections. Well, he's gonna have to suffer a little bit more, wait for his time. Following this observation, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs closed its draft 570 proceedings at its meeting. And, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, too, to put a point on my presentation. Thank you. It was great!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U204	Thank you very much. You have at least one question. Priit Toobal.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U205	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Dear waitress, It was also nice to discuss this issue in the Commission. But here's what I'm asking you. The draft also provides that in the future, the remuneration of the judge's assistant will not be less than EUR 1315. It's a number written in the law. How normal is it that the minimum wage for one or another post is recorded as a figure? As far as I know, this is not a very common practice. Why is that in this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U206	We briefly discussed this number at the committee meeting as well. Yeah, it's not quite the usual practice. It is a minimum wage for these people and, as times are alarming from the point of view of the judges' assistants, the draft is intended to give them confidence that their minimum wage will not be reduced. That's why this salary number was written in the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U207	Good waitress, we'll go on with the questions. Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U208	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress, in the end, do you think life will get better or worse after the bill's legalized?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U209	I am absolutely convinced that life will be better after this bill becomes a law. Spring's getting closer, the weather's getting warmer, and several court officials are getting more certainty. I hope that everything relating to judicial records will ultimately land under the jurisdiction of a county court and that this will give us the opportunity to use these registers in the future more cost-effective use of resources in such a way that they will benefit all of them.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U210	Thank you for your answers and for your confidence. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 570 amendments. 12 February at 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the ninth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U211	We will move on to the tenth item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Packaging Act and the Packaging Excises Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister for the Environment Keit Pentus-Rosimethus!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U212	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Dear Members, Today you have two draft amendments to the Packaging Act, the first of which is much more extensive. With this first draft, which bears the number 561, we want, in particular, to improve the functioning of the system for collecting packaging and packaging waste. Last year more than 123000 tonnes of packaging reached the Estonian market at all, and a relatively large amount of these waste was collected and recovered, i.e. 68% in total. This result is in itself good and exceeds our national obligation to recycle at least 60% of packaging waste. But, of course, our aim is for the recycling capacity to increase even more and for the waste dumps to reach as little as possible, whether they come from packaging or anything else. This is why we intend to make the activities of recycling organisations more transparent and thereby increase the control of those organisations that are involved in the re-use and collection of packaging. This means, among other things, that returning packages will also become more convenient for people. According to the bill, recycling organisations will no longer be able to refuse to accept packaging in the future. Increased number of packaging containers. While recycling organisations are currently able to install a single packaging collection container on a number of sites, the law clearly states that each organisation has to put out its own so-called collection bin. If there are just over 5,000 containers in Estonia at present, they should be added to 500-750 after the Act enters into force. Several other provisions governing the activities of recovery organisations are also clarified. The application for accreditation will be more precise. In the future, organisations will be obliged to present a financial plan which will be subject to stricter requirements following the entry into force of the Act. Among other things, it needs to reflect investment in packaging waste infrastructure and to clearly set out the amount of money that will be saved for future investments. The accredited recycling organisation has a number of tasks, including ensuring that the services related to packaging and packaging waste management are purchased on the basis of a real competition. The proposed amendments include legal requirements for the sustainable use of money when purchasing a service under a call for proposals, for transparent and verifiable procurement, and for all service providers to be treated equally. In cases where the recycling organisation is purchasing packaging material, the prices at which the packaging is purchased must be public and available on the website of that organisation. According to the draft, the certificate for the recovery of packaging waste must include further details: who transferred the packaging waste, the type of packaging material, the specific code and the quantity of packaging material, as well as the recovery code. The re-use certificate shall provide an overview of what has happened to the packaging waste collected and how it has been handled. The Environmental Inspectorate and the Tax and Customs Board will punish companies in the future for providing false data and also incomplete data. In addition, the draft regulation regulates more specifically the aspects of the packaging audit. In the current law, the concept of packaging audit does exist in itself, but the reality is that it is a rather general concept and, more specifically, an uneducated one, which is why each company has carried out an audit at its own discretion. This is one of those shortcomings that was also highlighted by the National Audit Office. In the new draft, the conduct of the packaging audit is much more precise and I hope that checks can therefore also be carried out more effectively. I see you have a lot of questions, which is why I am finishing up here. I will be happy to continue the debate and answer the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U213	Thank you. Minister, there are really questions for you! Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U214	Thank you, Minister of the Environment. I would like to focus on this activity, which is now being banned, i.e. cooperation between recycling organisations. Now they have to put out a certain amount of collection bins on their own. There are only three accredited organisations in Estonia, one of which is very much larger than the other two. These organisations are Estonian Packaging Circular, Estonian Re-use Organisation of NGO Eesti Re-use Organisation and Producer Responsibility Organisation OÜ. How do these organisations view this bill? Is there no danger that the two smaller ones will disappear at all due to the introduction of such a rule, and only a monopoly organisation will remain active in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U215	Thank you. No, we don't see that kind of danger. This is a draft, which has also been discussed very thoroughly by the packaging committee, acting as an advisory body for the Ministry. It has to be said that these organisations have indeed made some criticisms of this draft, but we have not made the aim, above all, of making a draft which would be particularly pleasing to the organisations themselves. However, the organisations have not made a very sharp criticism of the number of packaging containers. They have raised objections to some measures to make controls more effective, such as the same packaging audit. The number of packaging containers has been increased, in particular, in the interests of those who want to give away the packages, i.e. in the interests of people directly, of customers. When analysing some of the feedback that reaches the Ministry on the collection of packaging, the main complaints have been that packaging containers are either not very easy to find or that the distances between containers are beautifully large. And in order to avoid people leaving packaging unsorted or not handed over simply because the containers, which are still legally required to be installed by organisations, are not enough, the packaging committee did make an addition to this which, as one of the last drafts, entered. I consider this beautifully important myself, so that it is really convenient to give away the packages, and this possibility would be well guaranteed. It is the municipalities that enter into agreements with the organisations and who also have to cooperate with the organisations on the location of containers, and I would trust the municipalities on this matter. Their interest should also logically make it as comfortable as possible to give away packaging.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U216	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U217	Thank you. Madam Minister! Clearly, the system for collecting packaging and packaging waste works, but it also has disadvantages. How do you assess the extent to which he works and where he should move forward after we adopt this draft in the Riigikogu Hall?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U218	Thank you. One important change is the same as the one that was said in reply to the previous question: it will be easier for people to give away packages. The concern that it is very difficult to give away packages because the container is very far away or in a very uncomfortable place should be alleviated. If there are really 500-750 more containers, then it is certainly reasonable for customers and makes life more comfortable. The second part concerns the possibility of better monitoring the activities of recovery organisations. More precise provision of packaging audit in the draft is one thing that increases this possibility. To put it very briefly, there are two things: firstly, people are being given better opportunities to give away packages, and this supports the collection and sorting by type; secondly, the control of packaging organisations is being stepped up. These are the two main directions in which this bill will help the whole system to develop.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U219	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U220	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, If the packaging undertaking has transferred the tasks related to packaging collection to a recycling organisation, is it still entitled to collect them independently after that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U221	Yes, it has been one of the points of dispute or question that, if the task has been transferred, how can it be ensured that the packages are definitely collected in the amount of the obligation transferred, so that there is no later overlap in the system or crossover of data. The right to collect packages cannot be removed from the company, but if the obligation has been transferred to the organisation, these packages must still be collected by the organisation, not by the company itself, at the agreed volume.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U222	Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U223	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. According to the auditors of the National Audit Office, in 2009, due to the lack of control of the packaging recovery system, about one billion kroons, or 64 million euros of revenue, could not be received by the state. Will this bill result in more money coming to the state budget in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U224	Thank you. This is one figure that has also been discussed with the National Audit Office. The excise duty on packaging itself is a statement that recovery is not effective enough. The excise duty on packaging is one of those taxes for which there is no reason to be very happy when the number of excise duty to be collected is very high. It can be said that control over the amounts that must be paid to the budget is easier and more effective after the adoption of this law, but the idea of excise duties on packaging itself is slightly different. In fact, we have not agreed with the National Audit Office that in any case the aim is to maximise the amount of excise duties on packaging in the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U225	Lauri Laasi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U226	Thank you. Dear Minister, If the recycling organisation fails to comply and does not intend to comply with the requirement of the number of collections laid down in the Packaging Act , I hope that it does not go that far, is there some kind of sanctions provided for? Has the Environmental Inspectorate carried out any monitoring in this regard, and if so, what are the results?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U227	Thank you. Two questions at a time. The conditions required by the accreditation shall be fulfilled at all times by the company or organisation. If these conditions are not met, there is a reason and it is possible to cancel the accreditation. That should be clear to everyone. As regards the installation of containers, as mentioned above, it has now been perfectly legal to agree with each other, or we call it cooperation, which is why the actual number of packaging containers on the streets is lower. From now on, this opportunity will disappear.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U228	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U229	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, According to the draft, the number of collections is increasing significantly, as each recycling organisation must ensure that the density of collections required by law is met. The collection of all types of packaging material must also be ensured at each collection point. Does this mean that there must be at least five containers in a single collection site and can recycling organisations ensure separate collection of packaging material?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U230	Thank you. This does not necessarily mean that separate containers or separate barrels are physically required. If you are imagining packaging containers, it is often a large container with partitions between them, and it is possible to place different types of packaging there. So barrels or containers need not be separate, but separate collection must be possible. This capacity must and has not been contested by organisations. This is a legal requirement and must be met.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U231	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U232	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Minister, thank you very much. The state, businesses and the centres that are involved in this, the other side certainly have consumers, the behaviour of the people, has a role to play in the recycling and recycling of packaging. According to the 2010 audit of the National Audit Office, 54% of people did not know that they could give away the package free of charge. This audit was carried out in 2010. In the meantime, has there been an increase in people's awareness? What is the Ministry planning to do this year and next year to make sure that this percentage is not 54 but significantly lower?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U233	Thank you. I agree with the assessment that there could be greater awareness of the possibility of giving up packages and of the possibility of collecting them separately. I do not have the latest data on the percentage in 2012 or 2013, for example, but awareness has certainly increased. One reason is probably that we have started to monitor and demand that information campaigns be organised on the possibilities of packaging. My assessment is that these campaigns have recently been carried out somewhat more vigorously and better in recent years. But in addition to not knowing where the closest packaging container to home is or whether there is any possibility of giving away the package, there is one problem we have seen, the same small number of packaging containers and their physical existence. And that is what we want to change with this very bill. I guess you can think about each one of you here or in your head, whether you know where the closest packaging container to your home is and when and through which channel you received the last notification. Every one of us should know that, but I dare say that not every Member may have that knowledge, either. And it is not a man's fault, but an example that communication must be done much more effectively.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U234	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U235	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I'm gonna ask you again about packing containers. There are three recycling organisations in Estonia. Do any of them already comply with the proposed density requirements and not need to get more containers?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U236	Thank you. I need to check which containers and exactly how much more organisations are to be placed in order to ensure that it is purely accurate. I wouldn't want to get lost in saying a very specific number. This should also be checked by the local authorities, who are the real players with whom the organisations have signed agreements. So I can't give you a detailed answer right now, but I promise you, I will specify the matter and then I will pass on the answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U237	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U238	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! I have a question about the National Audit Office and containers. As a result of the audit carried out in 2010, the National Audit Office recommended specifying how different types of packaging waste containers should be labelled. In addition, the National Audit Office recommended that there should be information on how to sort packages, who is responsible for the container and also a contact phone where you can call in case of problems. With regard to this recommendation, the Packaging Act has not been amended. Did you not agree with the proposals of the National Audit Office or why no changes have been made to this effect?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U239	Thank you. The amendments have not been included in the draft, for the obvious reason that these discussions, which were beautifully long and thorough and which involved many parties, from the municipalities to the control bodies, were not deemed necessary to make such clarifications at the level of the law. But the body that adopts the law is you, so I guess these are the questions that need to be discussed in the committee. If Parliament considers that such an addition is precisely necessary by law, it must be incorporated into the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U240	Please, Echo Kreisman!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U241	Thank you. My question concerns the container itself in the same way. In the course of this legislative amendment, was the container opening size discussed? This is also one reason why people do not want to remove even their collected packaging, the container openings are so small that everything needs to be downloaded manually.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U242	The subject has been covered in different working groups, and I feel that the reasoning has been quite the same since the beginning of the law. There is another part of this, or it is to be avoided, where the material or packaging that has already been placed in the container can be easily expelled from it again. Therefore, the current solution is what it is. Once again, it was not considered necessary to add a very precise number of centimetres at the specific level of the law. But the reason why the openings of the container are not very large is precisely to avoid that the containers will also function as an upside-down loading station.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U243	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U244	Thank you. Madam Minister! One paragraph states that a packaging undertaking must provide surveillance at the request of a person with a right of supervision, etc. My question is, how big is the army in Estonia that has the right to supervision.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U245	Thank you. I wouldn't exactly call it an army. The right to control is certainly the Environmental Inspectorate, but everything depends, of course, on the nature of the control. For example, the tax administration has the right to carry out certain checks. I don't think the army of inspectors, as you call it, is too big, I don't want to hurt them. Rather, the situation is that the responsibilities and areas to be monitored are very broad. Take, for example, the same inspectors from the Environmental Inspectorate, who also monitor compliance with this law. Their area is not limited to packaging, but often extends up to fisheries. I therefore think that this so-called army is quite fit and certainly not too large.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U246	Lauri Laasi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U247	Thank you. Madam Secretary! The Packaging Act determines the density of packaging collection points. In Tallinn, for example, there should be approximately 190 public collection places. Paragraph 1 (11) of the draft law states that there must be 190 places for each recycling organisation. There are three recycling organisations operating in Estonia. Does this mean that there should be 570? How do you assess whether recovery organisations are able to provide such a large number of places or demand the impossible from them?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U248	Thank you. There's no way you're asking for the impossible. Consider, for example, the number of residents living in a city the size of Tallinn and the quantity of packaging that arises in such a city. If we agree that the collection and recovery of all types of waste is a goal that Estonia has taken on, then one thing that will help achieve this goal is that the disposal of packaging and waste collected by species must be as convenient as possible for man. Organisations that are accredited and have voluntarily undertaken such an obligation cannot and must in no way circumvent the requirements laid down by law or seek ways of not complying with the requirements laid down by law. So in a city the size of Tallinn, as you have just mentioned Tallinn as an example, this number of packaging containers is certainly not too high. Indeed, Tallinn is one of these examples, in which the Ministry has often also complained that the location of containers is not known or is not always in very comfortable places. I hope that the situation in Tallinn will also improve following the adoption of this law. I do not think that organisations who want and consider it possible to carry out such tasks will somehow fail, certainly not.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U249	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U250	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! Paragraph 17 (3) (6) of the Packaging Act states that in order to obtain the accreditation of a recycling organisation, it is necessary to submit to the Minister for the Environment, i.e. in this case to you, as part of an action plan, inter alia, a media plan to inform the end-user and the consumer about the possibilities of returning packaging and packaging waste and the collection and recovery system. In the media, we have occasionally seen information campaigns organised by the Estonian Re-use Organisation MTÜ and Eesti Pandipakend, but no other campaigns have been seen. Since you will be presented with these things, you will probably know whether or not other recovery organisations have media plans.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U251	Thank you. It is controlled, these plans must all have, and campaigns must all be carried out. Your colleague, Priit Toobal, pointed out earlier that awareness is not always as high as it could be. I think that was a proper distraction. Campaigns must be made not for getting a little bit of writing, but in such a way and in such places that these people really benefit. This has been particularly effectively monitored recently, and there is certainly a reason to review very precisely which campaigns have been carried out and where they have been carried out even after the adoption of this draft. The same example of people's awareness is one way of assessing whether campaigns have been sufficient and whether they have been carried out in such a way that they are still useful.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U252	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U253	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I will try to formulate a question from the point of view of the ordinary person. Understandably, this is an extra job for each family: at least three sachets have to be filled each day, and now there are more. It's uncomfortable, let's just say that. But either way, culture deepens, people follow orders and try to keep things in order. That's where I have the question. I have seen that the housing company and the packaging companies really have everything coordinated and have good cooperation. But I've also seen the containers stand, there are signs, but they're full to the edge. How can we improve this situation? You were talking about action, talking about other measures, but either way, there are places where it's a big problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U254	Thank you. I will return to the first question and the first answer. One reason why packaging containers often spill is, among other things, that the number of containers is not sufficient. Secondly, unfortunately, there are also attempts to stuff things in packaging containers that are definitely not part of it, such as pure municipal waste. But, above all, the question is the number of packaging containers, so that their locations are comfortable for people and the removal of packaging is made as easy as possible. This is one of the ways that we ourselves have considered right in order to alleviate the concern you have described.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U255	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I ask Tõnis Kõiv, member of the Environment Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U256	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu discussed the draft by number 561 at the meeting on 13 January. The members of the committee, the officials and the Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of the Environment, Harry Liiv, and Marika Target, the chief specialist of the waste department of the Ministry of the Environment, were present. The changes we have made have been heard here from the Minister for a long time and in depth both in his presentation and in his answers to the questions. However, the members of the Commission also had some questions. First of all, a word about the review that we were given of the law. The aim of the draft is to improve the regulation, transparency and control of packaging recycling organisations operating under the extended producer responsibility principle. The biggest change is the introduction of a part of the packaging audit into the Packaging Act. Due to the weight of packaged goods placed on the market, various requirements require auditing within the meaning of the Audit Act. There is only one sentence in the current law that data must be audited, which, according to the National Audit Office, has been difficult to understand and essentially unfulfilled or has been very difficult to control. Another important change, which has already been discussed several times here, but I will nevertheless go over it, is that all producer responsibility organisations must create their own network to collect packaging. This will probably lead to more containers. And when a survey of the waste management plan revealed that 43% of local authorities are not satisfied with the collection of packages by type, the number of containers, location and everything else, it is expected that this percentage will be considerably lower after the law has been enforced. An important change is also that recovery organisations need to be more public, including by purchasing services on the basis of public procurement rules, which will make buy-in clearer, more transparent and, hopefully, more favourable. The data to be provided by the recycling organisation will be specified as to how much has been collected through the network and how much directly from businesses. I now come to the questions of the Members of the Commission. Colleagues had a question that, if the law provides that a packaging company selling deposit packages to the end user or to the consumer cannot pass on the obligation to withdraw the deposit package to the recovery organisation, is there any change in that regard. In fact, there is no change here, it is regulated exactly as it is now. The Members of the Commission wanted to know what had been the things that were not satisfied with by the stakeholders or the organisations involved. A more detailed overview of the proposals and how they are taken into account, or not taken into account, is set out in the annex to the draft text as a whole. More specifically, it was said that the stakeholders did not approve at all the initial plan to make the accreditation of recycling organisations time-limited, which is why there is no such change. Neither the Confederation of Employers nor food producers and merchants were satisfied with this. There was also the question that in some cases people have the impression that they are good, that they collect paper, packaging and municipal waste separately, but in the end, everything may be going to a single Iru boiler to burn out, that it is quite correct. The Packaging Act states what is considered to be a recycling operation that is re-used and recycled. Energy use is a form of recycling of packaging waste and as such incineration cannot be condemned in any way. But it is clear that if it goes down exactly like that, as stated above, the motivation of people to collect waste by type is not very helpful. There was also a question of the provision of the Packaging Act, as amended in 2010, under which goods brought on board air and watercraft are exempt from the deposit guarantee. This does not directly concern the packaging law, but we have received the answer that this issue is being dealt with in the ministry. Having asked its questions and heard the answers, the Commission took a number of decisions: to refer the draft to plenary on 29 January, to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 12 February 2014 and to appoint Tõnis Kõiv as rapporteur for the commission. All these decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U257	Thank you. There's a question for you. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U258	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! As we know, there is a great deal of lobbyists in the European Parliament, and this activity has reached Estonian entrepreneurs. In Europe at large, the rules of lobby have been legalised and all this activity, i.e. lobbyist communication, is public. This could and should be the case in Estonia. I am asking if and with whom you have been in contact during the procedure in preparation of this draft, which companies have met.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U259	Thank you for your question. The Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu, including me as the rapporteur responsible for this draft, has a meeting with interested parties. We have already foreseen this time, the meeting should take place at the beginning of February, the date is scheduled for 11 February, but this could, of course, still change. This meeting is planned in the framework of the draft procedure. There have been no meetings so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U260	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? There's no call. The position of the commission is to conclude the first reading. The deadline for tabling amendments to draft law 561 is s. February 12, 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the 10th item on the agenda is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U261	We will move on to the 11th item, which is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Packaging Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister for the Environment Keit Pentus-Rosimitud!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U262	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! This is the second amendment of the Packaging Act, which was discussed at the beginning of the debate on the draft Act amending the previous Package Act. The reason you have two separate drafts before you is because this is about the transposition of the directive. In the Ministry of the Environment, we have kept the line that we do not submit cluster proposals to Parliament. If there is an amendment to the directive, it is indeed a separate draft and only concerns the directive, nothing else has been grafted on it. The draft law amending the Packaging Act before you aims to establish clearly what packaging is and what is not, and this draft will have the relevant directive of the European Commission transposed into Estonian law, which in turn will amend the annex to the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on packaging and packaging waste. This Annex provides explanatory examples of products the definition of which has given rise to problems in practice. If the company is not sure whether its product is packaging or not, it will in the future be able to determine this on the basis of an analogous example in that law. As you can see, these are quite technical but indeed necessary clarifications, which will make the situation easier and clearer, especially for businesses. Good Riigikogu, I ask you to support this bill! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U263	Minister, thank you very much. There are no questions. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, member of the Environment Committee, Valeri Korbi!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U264	Ladies and gentlemen, The meeting of the Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu took place on Tuesday, 21 January 2014 and the first item on our agenda was the presentation of the draft law amending the Packaging Act. Marika Sikk, Chief Specialist of the Waste Department of the Ministry of the Environment, introduced the draft and answered questions from members of the Commission. Our committee unanimously decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda on 29 January 2014, proposing that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments be set at 10 a.m. on 6 February 2014. Valeri Korb, member of the Environment Committee, was appointed by consensus to act as rapporteur for the commission responsible for handling the draft proposal. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U265	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? There doesn't seem to be any requests. The position of the commission is to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 568 amendments. a on February 6, at 10 a.m. The first reading of the draft has been completed and the 11th item has been dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U266	We will move on to agenda item 12 - the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on Public Water Supply and Sewerage initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister for the Environment Keit Pentus-Rosimitud!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U267	Good chairman of the sitting! Dear Parliament, Today there is also the amendment of the Law on public water supply and sewerage at first reading. The aim of this draft is, above all, to provide people with a better service once again and a fairer price. In order to do so, the draft brings the law on public water supply and sewerage into line with the newly amended competition law. In the future, the exemption from the award of water undertakings by competitive tendering will disappear and the whole process will be carried out in accordance with the Public Procurement Act. This means that in the future, the water operator will not be appointed for five years, but will be awarded for up to 12 years. Such a long period will certainly allow companies to plan investments better than today, because, as we know, plans for the development of public water supply and sewerage have also been drawn up for a period of not less than 12 years. The second part of the draft contains amendments that give the Competition Authority greater rights, and once again it can be said that supervision will also become more effective. In the past, the Agency was able to monitor only public water supply and sewerage connection charges, but in the future it will also extend to the methodology of connection charges. So far, there was a beautiful perilous situation in which the Competition Authority had to justify the fees calculated on the basis of a methodology that was not in line with the law. So this law hole or a mistake will be fixed. Thirdly, we will lose another small hole, which allowed the water company to coordinate the new water service prices with the Competition Authority and the local authorities, but not to set these prices and to demand a price for the water service that was not correct. Now the coordinated and published price must indeed be set within 60 days. The draft also specifies the procedure for calculating the connection fee from the residents. So in the future, there should be less injustice in this respect and the remuneration that may be charged to a person following the completion of the connection must be proportionate to the cost of the work carried out on his property. Figuratively speaking, if, for example, there are ten properties on one street for which a water supply is built and who has the possibility to join it, then in the future there will be no such situation that if there is only one property on this street with ten properties ready to join, the entire cost will be charged to the owner of this one property. From now on you can and will be allowed to ask him only for a proportionate fee, according to a 1/10 of all expenses. Thank you. This is the necessary draft, I ask Parliament to support it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U268	Dear Minister, You have at least one question. Lauri Laasi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U269	Thank you. Madam Secretary! The infamous IRL law imposing price restrictions on monopolies gave the Competition Authority the power to control the level of connection fees for water undertakings, yet I read in the explanatory memorandum to this draft that by autumn 2013, the Competition Authority had only coordinated the methodology of the connection fee for nine water companies. Can it be concluded that the infamous IRL law did not work even in this regard and now the regulation needs to be amended?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U270	Ülo Tulik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U271	Thank you. Laws are passed by parliament in the Republic of Estonia, not by one party or another, and, as far as I know, this law has also been approved by the parliament. If a Member considers that the draft, which has been approved, needs to be clarified, it can certainly be done. It has to be said about this law that, as a result of a slightly more thorough analysis, it could probably have been somewhat more precise. One of the places where there is a lack of nuances or details will be a better solution to the draft that is now before you. Indeed, there will be a solution that will enable the Competition Authority to actually exercise control, as I said earlier, precisely over the methodology. So I would like to ask Parliament once again to support this draft. For customers, this is certainly a sensible and necessary bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U272	Thank you, President of the sitting. Indeed, this seems to be a sensible draft. But did I get it right that in order to get more customers, the local government may decide that no connection fee will be paid at all? Will this option be retained?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U273	Does the municipality retain the right and the possibility to compensate for the connection fee? Yeah, well, that's a possibility that's not gonna go away with this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U274	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I ask Karel Rüütli, Vice-Chairman of the Environment Committee of the Riigikogu to present this speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U275	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Riigikogu Committee on Environment discussed the draft law amending the law on public water supply and sewerage on Monday, 20 January 2014. Nine members of the Committee on the Environment were present, one member was absent. Harry Liiv, Deputy Chancellor of the Ministry of the Environment, Galina Danilishina, head of the water department, and Elina Saunanen, lawyer of the legal department, participated as invited guests. The officials of the Ministry of the Environment introduced the draft and pointed out that the purpose of amending the Law on public water supply and sewerage was to update the regulation on the designation of water undertakings. It is the responsibility of the water company to supply water to the buildings that are connected to the network and to organise the discharge and treatment of waste water. So far, the designation of a water company has taken place through the granting of special or exclusive rights under competition law in accordance with the procedures established by the Government of the Republic. According to the amendment of the Competition Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2014, the concession requirements laid down in the Public Procurement Act will continue to apply to the granting of special or exclusive rights, and therefore the draft will also improve water undertakings accordingly. In practice, the replacement of the regulation of a special or exclusive right by a concession implies that, in the case of contracts awarded under the Public Procurement Act, persons are able to settle procurement disputes in the committee of appeal for public procurement, whereas administrative acts to grant special or exclusive rights could only be challenged before the administrative court. It also provides that in the future the water undertaking can be set up for up to 12 years instead of the current five years. This takes better account of the responsibility of local authorities to draw up and approve a public water supply and sewerage plan for a period of at least 12 years. Since the activity of a water undertaking depends directly on the plan for the development of public water supply and sewerage, the maximum duration of the contract must be linked to the duration of the development plan. Let me talk a little bit about the debate that took place in the Commission. The members of the Commission wanted to know whether there were also examples of the imposition of an order under the new law or even extremely expropriation. The representatives of the Ministry pointed out that such extreme measures had indeed been used. For example, in a smaller region of South Estonia there has been expropriation because the person was unable to carry out the tasks and duties he had assumed. It was also wanted to know that if the population in some regions had fallen or a large number of people were leaving it, whether differences could be made. The representatives of the Ministry replied that, of course, it was necessary to cooperate with the municipalities and to obtain this information as early as possible in order to analyse and specify the effectiveness of the cleaners and where it would also be possible to lay down less stringent conditions and to introduce other methods when the burden has decreased. The officials of the Ministry also pointed out that the law on public water supply and sewerage does not impose such a restriction that public water supply and sewerage must definitely be in pipes. It is also possible to use collection tanks operated by a water company. Members of the Commission were also interested that, if in some cases construction has been delayed for several years and people have already made investments in the necessary equipment themselves, would they have to join in any case? Such concessions can be made. If everything meets the requirements and the environment has not been violated, it is possible to negotiate and conclude agreements in this respect. Members of the Commission were also interested in offsetting. Ministry officials pointed out that the clearing system has actually been in place for quite some time. Only the wording has been slightly modified, as offsetting means that the customer would be indebted and both parties would be indebted to each other, i.e. the water company. In fact, only the water undertaking will partially reimburse the customer once the costs have been incurred. It was also added that it would not be possible to offset the price of the service at a later stage because these are two different components: one is the price of the water service and the other is the partial refund. That is all briefly about the debate. At the meeting of the Commission, it was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on 29 January 2014 beginning at 14 a.m. Secondly, it was decided to propose the termination of the first reading. The third proposal was to set the deadline for amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 12 February 2014. Fourthly, Karel Rüütel, Vice-President of the Committee on the Environment, was appointed rapporteur for the commission. All these decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U276	Good colleagues, do you have any questions? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 569 amendments. 12 February at 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the 12th item is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U277	We will move on to agenda item 13 - the first reading of the draft law amending the Land Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, 558. I ask the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U278	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The draft amendment to the Land Tax Act provides for the following amendments: First of all, there will be a procedure for calculating land tax on unreformed countries. The land tax on land parcels not registered in the land registry will be calculated on a common basis in the future. Many municipalities have already indicated, when submitting the data, the tax price for land for which the land is not intended, which is now a new general principle and therefore does not have a significant impact on the income of the municipalities. Local authorities are obliged to submit the basic documents necessary for calculating the land tax from 2015 onwards in the Land Tax Information System. Most of the data necessary for calculating the land tax are collected from other national registers and only some data must be entered by local government officials by hand. Following the introduction of the Land Tax Information System, local governments no longer need to spend the cost of calculating land tax, maintaining and developing the information systems created for the collection and management of the necessary data. The definition of publicly used land is further clarified. A list of countries of public use shall be laid down. These include land under a public water body, a public water body and a public road, as well as land that has a public land destination. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U279	Thank you. You have at least one question. Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U280	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable Minister of Finance! We are dealing here with the land tax calculated on the basis of the regular 2001 valuation, i.e. almost 13 years ago. In the meantime, the price of land has risen, where dozens, hundreds of times. When will the next land assessment take place?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U281	Thank you. The Ministry of Finance doesn't do that. I'm not familiar with their plans.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U282	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U283	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good minister! This land, which continues to be State-owned, will in future be taxed at the tax price of the land which is not earmarked. In preparing this draft, did you also consider other land destinations, such as commercial land, land-retrieving land, forestry boulders, forest areas, agricultural areas?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U284	Thank you. I don't know there were any such considerations. In my opinion, the current solution is what the experts came to.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U285	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U286	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. As a result of the different methods of land taxation applied by municipalities, a central approach is now being sought, which in itself is positive. However, according to the draft, this is done in a way that is the cheapest for the State and the most harmful for the municipalities, since it is the cheapest taxable country. Why did you choose this way?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U287	Thank you. If I understand correctly, there is a proposal on your question to use a price that would give a higher tax burden. What exactly is the purpose? I'd love to discuss it after the first reading, find out what these considerations are. At present, municipalities have generally started to use this price, and on this basis it is set with a rather calm heart, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U288	Minister, there are no further questions. Thank you. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu to Tarmo Männi, member of the Finance Committee!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U289	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Commission discussed this draft at its meeting on 21 February. The bill was presented by Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. I do not have much to highlight from this debate. The Commission's general view was that it was essential to introduce a single regime for the taxation of unreformed land. Secondly, the effects of the change in the land tax regime resulting from the application of the tax price of land for which the land was not earmarked and resulting in a slight reduction in the revenue received by the municipalities were discussed. The third issue we addressed was the creation of a single information system. This, of course, imposes additional obligations on the municipalities which are not assessed as a major influence by the initiator of the draft. As the proposals of the municipal associations were largely disregarded, the Commission decided to meet their representatives before the second reading. The Commission unanimously decided to propose the completion of the first reading and to set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 12 February 2014. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U290	Thank you. You have at least one question. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U291	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good Commission waitress Tarmo! My question is, did you discuss the draft in substance in the committee? At present, it is proposed to tax non-reformed states at a tax price for non-targeted land, which is three or four times cheaper than, for example, the average price of land in rural areas or, for example, forest land. Could it be considered that the Committee on Monetary Affairs is proposing an amendment according to which this country would be assessed on the basis of the current situation in terms of properties? I mean, it's completely real to figure out and do it. If everyone does it the same way, there is a unified system that is fair to local governments and the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U292	Good colleague! I can respond by not discussing this in the Commission, but here is the logic. I can speak from a personal point of view as a leading judge. In the case of the unreformed state land, the initiator is likely to have no basis at present other than the tax price imposed for that purpose. In fact, the municipalities were not prohibited from using higher rates, which they have done, that is not a violation. The question is that there will be a transitional period; next year, the unreformed state countries, which are 7% of the overall land surface, will probably be even less. There will be no change to the major effects, but it will have to be negotiated. I do not have the competence to speak about it now on behalf of the Commission. In any case, I regard the municipalities as partners on this issue, and that is why we invite them to the table. However, the costs are not significant and are gradually decreasing over time. A single system will allow the unreformed state land to cease to exist as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U293	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U294	Thank you, Mr President. The rapporteur from the Commission. The legislative principles say that when a new procedure is implemented, the method that causes the least damage to the subject is chosen, which is the least affected, which is the most lenient. This is a general legislative principle. The draft we are currently discussing takes the strongest position with regard to the municipalities and determines the cheapest method of land taxation for them. Did you also discuss possible alternatives in the Commission and, if you did not discuss it, why?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U295	Thank you! Once again, I have reported what we discussed in the Commission. If I were to answer, I would have to do so on the basis of personal opinion. But it is clear that now that we have an unreformed country, it has a tax price. No one can violate legitimate expectations with this.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U296	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. I would like to ask Kalev Kotkase, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U297	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Last time Riigikogu changed the Land Tax Act, the government coalition named it "The Land Tax Exemption Act for Homeowners." I hereby congratulate the government that the flying populism of a few years ago has been replaced by a more sober working mood. The Socialists in themselves do not mind if this draft is intended to ensure greater legal clarity. Unfortunately, in the shadow of this noble objective, the state plans to save and continue to pay land tax on state-owned land to local municipalities at the cheapest rate. The result is a reduction in the land tax payable by the State in 90 municipalities. In their explanatory memorandum, the municipality of Kõressaare is among the 90 municipalities, which did not exist for a month and a half before 9 December when the government initiated this draft. I am very sorry that there is no more power in Kõressaare, as much as I am sorry that the government does not know anything about this yet. According to the Social Democrats, it would be fair to find a "golden middleway" and continue to pay land tax on state-owned land on the basis of the land's destination and on the basis of its properties. I'll give you an example of Cool. The tax price for land not earmarked is EUR 46 per hectare, EUR 6400 per hectare on commercial land. In rural areas, if the parcel is a field, the tax price is EUR 167 per hectare, if the forest, EUR 264 per hectare. According to the bill, the government wants to pay EUR 46 on the basis of the tax price. It is fairer to pay EUR 167.264 on the basis of the tax price on a side-by-side basis. After all, all the data required for this purpose is available to the state and local governments. The government has promised to complete the land reform by 2017. If the draft comes into force on 1 January 2015, it will be a two-year law in a situation where more than 20 years have been completed without it. In addition, this draft reduces the financial interest of the State to complete the land reform as soon as possible. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U298	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The position of the commission is to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 558 amendments. 12 February at 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the 13th item is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U299	We will move on to the 14th item, which is the first reading of the Credit Institutions Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related draft law amending other laws 559. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U300	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The aim of the draft is to increase financial stability and to ensure the integrity and transparency of the financial sector. The draft is based on EU legislation, in turn on global standards, Basel III. Firstly, new capital requirements are introduced for banks and investment firms. The aim is to maintain more high-quality capital in the banking sector in order to strengthen resilience to economic shocks. The overall minimum level of holding capital is 8%, with more capital being required if complex and riskier financial products are traded. Banks must create additional capital buffers to cover losses. Eesti Pank has the right to establish capital buffers with different objectives. For example, banks are required to add capital during periods when the credit growth is high and the buffer is released when the economic cycle changes. If the bank fails to comply with the buffer requirements, it can be sanctioned by financial penalties or limited to payments of bank dividends and bonuses. The proposed measures will help to prevent some banks from becoming exposed to excessive risks and their accumulation in the financial system. The Bank's corporate governance regime will be improved, with the obligation to set up a risk committee at the Bank's board level, a nominating committee for the selection of bank managers and the assessment of performance. The principle that there must be people with a wide range of experience and knowledge on the bank's management bodies is established, complementing the rules on remuneration for bank managers. Secondly, the Alternative Fund Managers Directive, which introduces new requirements for managers managing venture capital funds and hedge funds, will be transposed. The aim is to establish greater control over the activities of hedge fund managers, so far they have not been subject to supervision. Thirdly, more technical changes are being made which do not come under European Union law. The information about the owners of the bank and the rules for the authorities will be specified if information about the account details of the persons is requested. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U301	Thank you, Minister. There are no questions. Inara Luigas, member of the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu speech chair, please present!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U302	Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Monetary Affairs discussed this draft on 21 January. a. As a representative of the initiator, the draft was presented by Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. The aim of the draft, as the Minister of Finance said, is to increase financial stability and ensure the integrity and transparency of the financial sector by introducing new requirements for banks, investment firms and alternative fund managers. The Commission also raised some issues, questions about the time of entry into force of the law and the deadline for transposition of directives and regulations. The Minister of Finance explained that the Directive and the Regulation form a single package, that they must be seen together and that they will replace the Capital Requirements Directives. Although the deadline for the transposition of the directives was already 2014 - the beginning of this year - this delay does not pose major problems, as Estonia has ensured greater efficiency and transparency in setting capital and liquidity requirements for certain purposes. They also asked what would change with regard to Eesti Pank, which functions would be added to Eesti Pank. It was explained that Eesti Pank has already fulfilled its oversight obligations for payment systems, and therefore Eesti Pank will do so-called macro-prudential supervision. There were also questions about own resources. Own funds requirements are introduced by the Banking Regulation in Europe. The most important changes are that the composition of the core own funds will be specified and the minority interests will be made up of the other own funds. There will also be stricter requirements for hybrid instruments. The entire capital requirement, i.e. the capital adequacy ratio, was also discussed, which, as a result of this directive and the draft law, is 8%. The difference from the previous one is that the adequacy requirement must not exceed 8%. It has also been 10% in Estonia, which is two per cent higher. It was requested to know what the original own funds and Common Equity Tier 1 capital were. In this regard, the explanatory memorandum to the draft law contains very good diagrams, so that anyone who has an interest can read from it. The Commission took the following consensual decisions: to put the draft on the agenda on Wednesday 29 January. a, to conclude the first reading of the draft and to set a deadline of 10 working days, i.e. 12 February at 5.15 p.m. for the submission of amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U303	Thank you. No questions for the waitress. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The position of the commission is to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 559 amendments. 12 February at 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the 14th item is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U304	We will move on to agenda item 15 - the first reading of the draft Act amending the Tax Administration Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U305	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! This draft establishes a working register. The purpose of the draft is to fight against envelope wages and collect all information related to work into one electronic environment on the work register. The introduction of a single register will help to reduce the administrative burden for the Tax and Customs Board, the Unemployment Insurance Fund, the Social Insurance Board, the Labour Inspectorate, the Health Insurance Fund, the Police and Border Guard Board and the duplication of activities in the provision, collection and processing of data. This amendment also protects the employee, as the person will be able to check the register for himself/herself whether he/she is officially employed and whether taxes have been paid for him/her. The administrative burden on employers will be reduced, the data will be provided only in the employment register and will reach all the necessary public authorities. Compared to the current situation, the fact that data must be provided via the tax administration's online environment instead of the health insurance fund's online environment will change. If there are currently seven calendar days for the registration of an employee, this must be done in the future before the person takes up his or her duties. This will certainly reduce the possibility of paying envelope wages, as the Tax Administration will have additional opportunities to take action against envelope wages. He or she shall have the right to identify the person and punish the employer if the person working on the subject is not entered in the register. According to the Institute of Economic Affairs, 12% of the staff received part or all of the envelope wages in 2012, EUR 146 million remained in the budget and a large part of the population was left without social protection. This change is expected to generate a revenue of EUR 2 to 5 million for the state budget this year. By the time of entry into force, we ask you to specify 1 July 2014 when the draft law amending the tax arrangements and other laws prepared by the Ministry of Social Affairs should enter into force. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U306	Minister, thank you. There are no questions. Remo Holsmer, member of the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U307	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This bill also affects all of us; members of the Riigikogu will also be part of the register of work to be created. Now to complement what the Minister has said. The Finance Committee discussed the draft law amending the Tax Administration Act initiated by the Government of the Republic at its meeting on 21 January, where the objectives of the draft were outlined by the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. As the Minister mentioned here, the aim of the draft is to combat envelope wages and reduce the illegal use of labour. A work register will be established, bringing together the entire work-related regulation. As a result, it is possible for everyone to easily check their own data and to check whether the social guarantees relating to work are guaranteed for them. The social rights of individuals are thus better protected. Secondly, the employer's administrative burden will be reduced. The data will be provided only in one register from which they will reach all the necessary public authorities, as the Minister confirmed earlier in his speech. Similarly, the administrative burden is reduced in the authorities that collect and process data at the Tax and Customs Board, the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund, the Social Insurance Board, etc. Fourthly, the social guarantee system as a whole will become simpler. This draft form one whole and must be considered in conjunction with the draft law amending other laws relating to the amendment of the Tax Administration Act prepared at the Ministry of Social Affairs, which is to be discussed next. In view of the sectoral competence of the ministries, the amendments have been made in two different drafts. In short, the discussions in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The employer is obliged to register the employee at the start of the job. How do I exchange information with the working register? This was a question that was also raised at the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. As a general rule, work must be registered in the online environment of the e-Tax Board. To this end, the employer must have an agreement with the Tax and Customs Board on the use of the online environment, which can also be concluded electronically. It is also possible to provide data under a simplified procedure. This means that the employee's basic data is transferred to the Tax and Customs Board by phone or SMS. In the case of simplified registration, the person making it possible to work must submit further information within seven days of taking up employment in the register of employment. What happens if work is not registered? In that case, it is a misdemeanor. Penalty money can be used for non-compliance with the registration obligation. In such a case, the tax authority shall first warn the person enabling the work of the person concerned of the imposition of the penalty payment and shall grant an additional period for the registration of the employment. If the person making it possible to work fails to comply with the obligation within the additional period, the tax authority shall apply the penalty payment. The specific maximum penalty payment shall be EUR 3300 and shall not exceed EUR 1300 for the initial implementation of the penalty payment and EUR 2000 for the second time. The Commission was also talking about identifying identity and the rights of the Estonian Tax and Customs Board. The tax administrator's official has the right to suspend the person for the purpose of identifying the identity, to require him to present an identity document and to receive statements enabling the identity to be established. Who should be entered in the register? The decisive criterion for inclusion in the register is the employment of the person making it possible to obtain a tax liability because of the work done by the person doing the work. Self-employed persons are excluded because the social guarantees of self-employed persons are dependent on their registration in a commercial register. The register of employment shall also include persons who work in a company or in a self-employed capacity as volunteers. The Commission was asked how the verification would be carried out in the case of volunteering. In such cases, the assessment shall be based on evidence, sometimes indirect, collection of all facts and criteria of vital credibility. In the event of a dispute at the final stage, it is possible for the court to find out how likely it is that a person, for example, four to five months eight hours a day, works free of charge, while at the same time being able to perform his or her financial obligations perfectly. We also talked about the experiences of other countries in the Commission. The draft does not deal with the creation of a register of work on a sector-by-sector basis, but in Estonia as a whole. Other countries have also practiced the creation of a register, for example, in the catering sector, in the construction sector, etc. According to the initiator of the draft, the draft was found to be a partial solution. Therefore, the employment register has been presented to the Riigikogu for decision in a different form; it is not sector-specific, but it concerns all people working in Estonia at the same time. The procedural decisions were as follows: At its meeting on 21 January, the Committee on Monetary Affairs decided to propose that the first reading of the draft be closed and that the deadline for amendments be 10 working days, i.e. 12 February at 5.15 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U308	Honourable waitress, thank you. There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? There's no call. The position of the commission is to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 575 amendments. 12 February at 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the 15th item is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U309	We will move on to the 16th item, which is the first reading of the draft law amending other laws relating to the amendment of the Tax Administration Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U310	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Just as Jürgen Ligi has a good opportunity to present to you the draft law amending other laws relating to the amendment of the Tax Administration Act, which is closely related to the draft dealt with on the previous item. This concerns the register of work to be created. In view of the sectoral competence of the ministries, the amendments have been drafted in two drafts for the sake of simplicity and efficiency. This specific draft, which is currently before you, provides the legal basis for obtaining the necessary data from the register established by the Tax and Customs Board for other national institutions. It is also necessary to obtain data to ensure people's health insurance, unemployment insurance, social security cover. In short, all data can be provided via a single interface. Of course, this will also reduce the administrative burden on businesses. The draft is planned to enter into force in s. a on 1 July, provided that the draft discussed on the previous item also enters into force at the same time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U311	Minister, thank you. There are no questions. Please present the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee Margus Tsahkna!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U312	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft law amending other laws relating to the amendment of the Tax Administration Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, 574 before being sent to first reading, at its meeting on 20 January. The meeting was attended by Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas and officials from the Ministry of Finance, the Tax and Customs Board and the Ministry of Social Affairs. As the Minister said in his review, the law provides the legal basis for other public institutions to obtain the necessary data from the register of employment created by the Estonian Tax and Customs Board to ensure that persons are covered by health insurance, unemployment insurance and social security cover, and to verify the correctness of the payment of unemployment insurance and social security benefits. I am not going to give an overview of the draft, as the Minister has already done so, but I will mark another problem that the draft will help to solve. In particular, the Chancellor of Justice, in his proposal No 15, has proposed the abolition of the unlawfulness of the Constitution as regards the procedure for calculating unemployment insurance and where there is a corresponding procedure for the Chancellor of Justice. In the opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs, the draft that we are discussing establishing a working register solves the problem that we have been dealing with here for a few years. The Commission decided to propose the first reading of the draft law amending other laws relating to the amendment of the Tax Administration Act 574 on 29 January 2014 and to conclude the first reading. The Commission proposes to set 10 working days for the submission of amendments. Margus Tsahkna, chairman of the committee, was appointed rapporteur for the committee. The decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U313	Thank you. There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? There's no call. The position of the commission is to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 574 amendments. 12 February at 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the 16th item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U314	We will move on to item 17, which is the first reading of Bill 562 on Amendment to the Medical Device Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu to Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U315	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! This amendment updates the regulation of the medical device database, which extends the data composition and becomes more accessible. According to the draft, data are collected on medical devices placed on the European Union market through Estonia, introduced and distributed for the first time in Estonia and used professionally, as well as on incidents. From now on, data on clinical trials and monitoring procedures can also be transmitted through a new version of the database. Businesses will find it more comfortable to comply with the data reporting obligations that are already in the law. By the entry into force of the law and the introduction of the development of the database, we will get a better overview of the medical devices on the market. This in turn reduces the risk to human health posed by medical devices. The implementation of the law also entails costs. The cost of creating a single database is EUR 138624 with VAT and maintenance costs EUR 40000 per year. The law and the amendments to its implementing acts are planned to enter into force on 1 April. a. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U316	Thank you, Minister. There are no questions for you. Please present the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee Margus Tsahkna!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U317	Good manager! The Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft law amending the Medical Device Act initiated by the Government at its meeting on 20 January, in which the Minister of Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas, and Tairi Välinurm, chief medical specialist at the Ministry of Social Affairs, participated. The Minister briefed the Commission on the draft, as he did now from this point of view. That is why I am no longer going to take stock of the draft. The Commission felt that this was a good proposal and a good draft, reducing red tape, making the picture of medical devices more precise and clearer and simplifying the whole process. The Commission proposed that the draft be sent to the first reading on 29 January 2014, ending the first reading and setting a deadline of 10 working days, i.e. 12 February, at 5.15 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U318	Mr President, thank you. There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The position of the commission is to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline for tabling 562 amendments. 12 February at 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the 17th item is also under discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U319	We will move on to the 18th item, which is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Law on the Organisation of Health Services, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U320	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! According to this draft, the Health Board is granted the right to exclude from the list of family doctors uninsured persons who, according to the population register, are not resident in Estonia. The second important amendment creates a legal basis for midwives to provide assistance at home birth. Uninsured persons who, according to the population register, are not resident in Estonia were 47271 as of October last year. Unfortunately, people who do not stay in Estonia permanently and do not consume general medical care are holding a place on the family doctor's list, and when its limit size is full, as it sometimes happens in especially large cities, the family doctor cannot take more persons insured on his list. Of course, the family doctor does not receive a bounty on uninsured persons, and the service of the family doctor is thus reduced. The Health Board shall compare the lists of family doctors on a quarterly basis in order to ensure appropriate lists and to ensure that general medical care can be provided to the family doctor and the health professionals working with him. The organisation of names is necessary to ensure that family medical care is actually available to everyone. According to the current law, the Health Board excludes a person from the list of family doctors if the person on the list is not the subject of the Estonian population register. The second amendment provides for the possibility of home birth aid, which may be provided in the framework of independent midwifery aid. Legal professional assistance should be provided to those who choose to give birth at home in planning, giving birth and after giving birth in order to reduce the risk to women and newborns. The regulation ensures that the home birth takes into account the interests of both the child and the child at home. The introduction of the amendment will give rise to a legal basis for establishing the conditions and procedures and requirements and rules for service providers for the planned home birth. The implementation of the legislative amendment does not foresee any additional costs for the state budget or the health insurance budget. Home birth care is not included in the health insurance fund's list of health services, i.e. the planned home birth, and the following midwife's home visit is subject to a fee for the child. A midwife providing home birth care incurs costs on work equipment and medicines that must accompany the provision of this service. The amendment relating to the exclusion of a family doctor from the list shall enter into force in the general procedure and the regulation of home birth on 1 August 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U321	Minister, thank you for your review. There are no questions. Please report to Helmen Küti, Member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U322	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the draft law amending the Health Services Organisation Act on Monday, i.e. a meeting on 20 January. All nine members of the Commission and Commission advisers participated. Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas gave a comprehensive overview. The questions were answered by Heli Paluste, Head of Health Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs. Before going to the content presentation and discussing the issues that were in the Commission, I say that the Commission proposed that this draft be put on the plenary agenda today, 29 January 2014, that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 12 February 2014. It was decided to appoint Mr Kütt, member of the Social Affairs Committee, to present this draft to you. The decisions were consensual. The bill raised many questions. It seems that one long-standing problem, or legalising the participation of midwives in home births, is now being resolved, but this solution is partly incomplete. The questions were as follows: With regard to the first point, concerning the lists of family doctors, the question arose as to whether the population register and the tax registers used by the Tax and Customs Board are compatible and whether it is possible to have a person living abroad, the social tax is paid in Estonia, but according to the population register, the Estonian resident is not. Regarding tax registers, the representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs was unable to reply accurately. The Minister of Social Affairs explained that the draft concerns in particular uninsured persons and not persons covered by health insurance. Much more and more discussions were caused by the issue of home birth. Just as the draft explanatory memorandum makes a very beautiful point, and as the Minister of Social Affairs mentioned, one of the aims of this law should be: 'Honour for the beliefs and preferences of the giver and equal treatment for the giver must be guaranteed both at home and in hospital. " As a result, questions arose. It was asked that if the activities provided by the hospital before childbirth were paid on the basis of the Health Insurance Fund's price list, why is this not the case in the case of domestic childbirth? The principle of considering a person's choices and preferences and treating everyone equally is noble. Questions were also asked about how a child can be registered when giving birth at home. There was also a discussion on the issue of the fact that home birth care is not an additional cost to the state budget and why the health insurance fund should not pay for this assistance. When you look at the statistics, in 2012 66 women chose to give birth at home. If those 66 children were born in a hospital, it would have cost the state budget anyway. If, on the other hand, you choose to give birth at home, the costs will be borne by the family. There was a long debate on this subject. One of my fellow Members felt that the issue should be further developed and further discussed. I have to say that the Social Affairs Committee has, in my opinion, taken the right decision: to hold a debate before sending the draft to second reading, to which specialists from the Union of Midwives and the NGO's Birth Force are invited, who have been working on this subject for a long time. Their views and principles will also be heard, so that decisions can then be taken, taking into account, where appropriate, the amendments that should be received by 12 February. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U323	Good waitress, thank you! You have at least one question. Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U324	Thank you, dear waitress. Good Helmen, you said last year the number of home births was 66. Did the Commission compare this number, as we have used to compare certain things, to the same number in other Member States? Was there any mention of the highest number of home births in which Member State?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U325	Comparisons are also made for the Estonian state. When planned home births were registered in 1992, 19 were registered in 2012, as stated, 66 were registered. In the countries of the European Union, this figure varies considerably. We generally have a very small number, but, for example, in Germany, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Belgium, Austria and Hungary, home births are also registered and regulated and the number of births is higher. This is the highest in the Netherlands, where 30 to 40% of births are at home. In the Scandinavian countries, 2 to 4% of all births are at birth.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U326	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? They do. I'm opening negotiations. Please beg the representative of the Social Democratic Party Group Helmen Küti to the Riigikogu Chair! Would you like eight minutes of speaking time?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U327	No, I don't think it's gonna take eight minutes. Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, I apologise to Rein Aidma, who will make a presentation on the last item on the agenda and have to wait for me. This is really the 18th item, it's dark out and it's late. But this is a very, very important draft, and it should not go without paying any attention to the subject. Therefore, let me, however, look at some important points. As I said in introducing the bill, the aim is to treat equally those who have decided to give birth to a child in hospital and those who do so at home. But, unfortunately, it is now that equality is not guaranteed financially, so the families that have decided that the child will be born at home are not equal to the others. The State treats them unequally because they have to pay for the costs themselves. This may make it impossible for some young families to decide on a domestic pregnancy for financial reasons. The vision and goals of the Government of the Republic of Estonia's family-friendly country are set out in Government Order No 454 of 24 October 2013, entitled 'Smart parents, nice children, strong society. Children's and Families' Development Plan 2012 It sets out an important obligation for the government to develop services to facilitate the independent economic livelihood of families. The point on domestic birth aid in the draft law currently under discussion does not really show the state's respect for the choices made by women, the whole family, and it is therefore an unequal treatment of people. It is very positive that the authors and authors of the draft have, however, removed the word pair'management of the birth' from the draft and replaced it with'monitoring and assistance' if necessary. It is also very positive that the Committee on Social Affairs has decided to listen to the other parties before the members of the committee start voting, because so far we have only received explanations from the Ministry of Social Affairs. Ultimately, it is, of course, very good that this issue will eventually be legalised, that there will somehow be a room for justice and justice. I very, very much hope that the members of the Riigikogu will consider the proposals that have been submitted before they begin to press the button in their final reading, and will not create a situation where a part of the members of society has a real result that a born child is treated unequally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U328	Thank you. I'm closing the negotiations. The position of the commission is to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 566 amendments. 12 February at 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the 18th item is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U329	We will proceed to the 19th item, which is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Law on Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and their Precursors, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U330	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! This draft establishes a database of early warning information systems for new psychoactive substances with a short name VAHIS. The purpose of the database is to strengthen the control of psychoactive substances entering the market or on the market and to ensure rapid public intervention in the event of possible abuses. To date, exchanges of information on new psychoactive substances have taken place in the form of exchanges of letters between officials. The database shall contain information on new psychoactive substances such as a description of the substance, chemical composition, methods and effects of production and distribution of the substance for humans, and proposals for restrictions on handling. Information entered in the database shall be accessible only to persons who need it for the performance of their duties. According to the draft, the Agency, the Estonian Tax and Customs Board, the Ministry of Justice or the State Agency managed by the Ministry of Justice, the Police and Border Guard Board, the Health Board and the Ministry of Social Affairs or the State Research and Development Institution managed by the Ministry of Social Affairs have access to the information system due to the specific nature of its work. The expenditure necessary for the implementation of the draft is planned for the 2014 budget of the Agency for Medicines and Health Development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U331	Minister, you have many questions. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U332	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Will non-profit organisations that are dealing with a drug problem ever be able to access this list, or will it not be possible to do so in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U333	Thank you. I named those institutions that, according to the specifics of their work, should have access to this register or information system. Indeed, this circle is not very broad, as it is based on whether this data is needed because of work. So the direct answer to your question is that, no, we have not planned for such a wide circle of data to be accessed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U334	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U335	Thank you. Dear Minister, I was wondering who I was gonna ask, should I ask the Minister for Agriculture, but since there is a bill here today, I'm gonna ask you. I went to the seed shop and watched carrot seeds put down in the spring, and I saw hemp seeds on sale. Since cannabis is a psychotropic substance, can you tell me which cannabis seeds it is? Are they even allowed to be sold in Estonia? What is your opinion on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U336	Thank you, good questioner! I really don't know what kind of store you went to and what kind of seeds were on sale there. If you suspected that it might be illegal seeds, my suggestion would be to refrain from buying them for security reasons and, if necessary, to check whether they are illegal. Without wanting to speculate too much, however, I believe that there may have been seeds of plants that are not going to grow into a real drug. I mean, it would still be kind of infuriating if you saw such a thing at the store. I would recommend that, in this particular case, people who know the subject in detail and are able to appreciate exactly what the seeds are.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U337	Good colleagues, any more questions? No, it's not. Minister, thank you. Rein Aidma, Member of the Social Committee of the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U338	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! The draft law amending the Law on narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances and their precursors 567 was first read in the Committee on Social Affairs on Monday 20 January 2014. In addition to the members of the committee, Ene Augasmägi, Head of Health Policy of the Public Health Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Ethel Bubõr, Adviser to the Legal Department, participated. Questions were asked about this draft law as to whether the draft includes those substances that have already been recorded by a ministerial decree or only new ones. The answer is that only new substances come here. Their numerical order of magnitude is about 20 per year. The main information comes from the Nordic countries. That concludes the discussion on the issues. It was decided to propose to the Riigikogu that this bill be placed on the plenary agenda on 29 January, which is today. It was further decided to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 12 February 2014. The last decision was to appoint Rein Aidma, a member of the Social Affairs Committee on the table. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-29_U339	Thank you, dear fellow. Any questions? There are no questions. The representatives of the political groups have the opportunity to open negotiations. No calls, no negotiations. The position of the commission is to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline for the submission of 567 amendments. 12 February at 5.15 p.m. The first reading is therefore closed and the 19th item is also addressed. Good fellows, our hearing today is over. I thank you and wish you the strength of your work! Closure of the sitting at 6.15 p.m.
